i am grateful, mr president, for the opportunity to greet the port workers, including 100 portuguese workers, who are demonstrating today outside the european parliament and who are staging a strike in several countries of the european union. the port workers are fighting for, among other things, the defence of employment, safety at work, professional qualifications, collective agreements and trade union rights, and are therefore calling for the rejection of the directive on port services, which, after being rejected by the european parliament, has been incomprehensibly reintroduced by the european commission. i therefore call on the european parliament to live up to its responsibilities by rejecting it again.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the creation of european citizenship because we want a europe of citizens and not just of services, goods and capital. this citizenship has grown with the strengthening of the protection of the rights and interests of the citizens of the member states and the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to congratulate commissioner frattini on the work he has been doing in this area. the balance sheet presented by the european commission for the last three years is generally positive. the main problems identified are mainly linked to poor implementation and incorrect practices, rather than to the lack of conformity of national legislation. this reinforces the importance of an information policy on the correct interpretation of union rules and the correct application of citizens' rights and calls for the necessary steps to be taken to make the charter of fundamental rights legally binding. we want to strengthen and consolidate europe's identity and to encourage greater involvement of citizens in the process of european integration, which should translate into higher rates of participation in european elections. less positive is the report by mr catania, which we are debating today, in which about half of the 40 points call into question the very concept of citizenship, advocating the recognition of citizenship of the union irrespective of whether one has the nationality of a member state, which is clearly contrary to what is laid down in the treaty. european citizenship cannot and should not be understood as an intention to create artificially a supranational identity which seeks to replace national feelings. the promotion of awareness of a common heritage based on a set of common traditions and fundamental values must be done with respect for national identity. citizenship of the union is a complementary citizenship which is in addition to national citizenship and does not replace it. to do otherwise is to kill the concept of european citizenship and to create difficulties for the european project.
this debate is important, but even more important are the urgent and effective measures that must be taken to put an end to the serious human rights violation of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, for the purpose of sexual exploitation and forced labour - a veritable slavery. we cannot remain indifferent to the growth of this scourge worldwide, which affects between 600 000 and 800 000 people, 80% of whom are women and children, including here in the european union, where the victims number more than 100 000 a year. this situation is not unrelated to wars, political instability in the countries of origin, the worsening of social and regional inequalities, the feminization of poverty and unemployment, violence against women and children, which calls for new approaches and new integrated policies. it is well known that trafficking for sexual exploitation is directly linked to prostitution, and therefore a set of integrated measures for the protection of the dignity of women and children and against trafficking in human beings and money laundering is urgently needed, which also requires the end of tax havens and economic and social policies that are supportive of and committed to economic and social cohesion.
member of the commission. mr president, in response to the last question – which bears almost no relation whatsoever to the subject matter of this debate – let me say that the honourable member makes a rather good case for russia and ukraine being brought into the wto, because they would be subject to international rules and to the dispute settlement machinery of the wto. however, for them to enjoy that privilege, they have to accept certain undertakings unambiguously beforehand, and that remains the subject of continuing discussion between us. i will try and be brief, but a very large number of points and issues have been raised in this debate. i cannot do them all justice. i welcome the ideas that have been put forward by members. i hear the criticisms that have been expressed about what we have done and needless to say i am grateful for the praise and compliments, but i am only too well aware that praise comes to a negotiator when he does not do anything wrong. the test for the negotiator is for him to do something right. that is harder, and that is the challenge held out before me in the coming months. i am in complete agreement with the member who said that we need to strengthen the rights of the european parliament in relation to trade – i have always said that – and, in the spirit of the times, given that our relationship is going so swimmingly, i cannot think of anything i would rather have than a strengthened relationship between us. a word to those who have expressed concern about the international criticism that has been directed at the european union. it is criticism up to a point, but a better word for it is propaganda. all is fair in love and war in international trade negotiations, and we have to understand that where our negotiating partners arrive at a convergence of interests, notably in respect of agriculture, you will find a cacophony of voices directed against us, all of which have one goal in mind, which is to place pressure on the unity of the 25 member states: to seek to divide the 25 and as a result, find advantage for themselves in the negotiations. that is why the unity that we found in hong kong is so important. it is not just a question of giving ourselves the comfort of solidarity amongst ourselves; unity of argument and message is the best riposte to the propaganda that will be aimed against us. as it happens, my judgement is that whilst the propaganda will not fall away and its decibel count will not go down, whilst those critical voices will maintain their shrillness in years to come, they are becoming less convincing and finding a weaker reception amongst many of the international commentariat who follow these negotiations in detail. i have found, since hong kong, a rather more balanced and nuanced appreciation of the content of these negotiations than i found on previous occasions. but we do not just have to find responses to people’s criticisms and propaganda, as a number of members have quite rightly argued; we also have to reach out and find allies. we are not going to complete this round unless we are able to find some accommodation between ourselves and the interests and negotiating objectives of the g20 group of emerging economies. they are not homogeneous, but they have an effective discipline which i welcome. we would not be able to negotiate as we are; we would not have the prospect of finding a satisfactory outcome if we did not have those g20 countries, the emerging economies organised as they are and brought together as coherently as they are, in these negotiations. i think therefore that post-cancún, yes, it gives us a lot of grief sometimes in the european union to find our negotiating partners so well organised, but on the other hand the opposite of organisation is chaos and chaos is the enemy of a successful trade round. however, just as i welcome our negotiating partners in the g20, i think those members who have pointed out tonight that we need to cement our coalition of interests and our relationship with the acp countries are also correct. one thing i have learned and that has been borne in on me since i took up this post – something that some members might bear in mind, given some of the contributions that have been made this evening – is that when you appeal to, or respond to, or try to accommodate the interests of certain developing countries, more often than not you will find yourself taking away from, or denying opportunities to, or dissatisfying, other developing countries. and so it is the case that when we are criticised, as the commission has been on one or two occasions this evening, for not taking agricultural reform fast enough or far enough for the interests and benefit of certain rather more competitive developing countries, we have to understand that during the course of that reform, the further it goes or the faster it goes, the more pain we will be causing other developing countries to experience. so when i travel around, whether it be in africa or the caribbean, the street demonstrations that i face are not amongst the poor and exploited of the world who want us to go further in agricultural reform; in my experience of street demonstrations it has been people from some very poor, needy and deprived developing countries who are asking us to go slower in our agricultural reform, not faster. to an extent this is a question of compensating developing countries for the adjustment that is necessitated by that agricultural reform. mrs kinnock has quite rightly highlighted the issue of sugar. the commission’s approach – and i say this on behalf of mrs fischer boel as well as myself – is clear. we proposed eur 190 million per year for each year between 2007 and 2013 for our proposed sugar action plan agreed with acp countries. but the compromise that was found on the budget means a 20% reduction of the money that we thought we would have available for that action plan under the relevant heading. that is an unattractive prospect, if we are going to have, through budgetary constraints, to retreat from the original ambition of the plan that we set forward. tonight i invite the european parliament to help the commission ensure that there is enough money to make that action plan a reality and to make sure that it genuinely meets the needs of those sugar-dependent acp countries with whom we have had such an important historical relationship – a relationship we want to carry over as meaningfully to the future – and to help us ensure that that budgetary allocation is sustained. i will certainly be pushing to maintain the original eur 190 million, but we in the commission are not the budgetary authority; you and the council are. therefore i appeal to you to exert your best efforts to bring this about. i should like to mention another issue that constantly arises – quite rightly – in these negotiations, concerning investment in services and a service-based infrastructure of developing countries. liberalisation in services is as important a part of the inbuilt agenda of this round as agriculture. i want to stress that our purpose in these negotiations is to boost commerce, because trade drives inter-economic growth. but boosting commerce, to my mind, is not the same as commercialising what other countries and governments legitimately want to keep within the public realm. that is their choice. that is the policy space to which they are entitled. no part of this negotiation concerning the liberalisation of services seeks to erode, let alone remove, the right to regulate public services. take the example of water, as one member already mentioned: where are developing countries going to get the capital investment, the transfer of technology, the transfer of management skills to operate the most efficient water industry in their countries that they can possibly get, to bring about the distribution that they so desperately need, if it is without foreign investment, foreign know-how and foreign transfer of technology? we must keep a sense of perspective about this whilst recognising and safeguarding developing countries’ rights to regulation. with regard to agriculture – and incidentally, there is no question of excluding agriculture from these negotiations; anyone who ever dreamed that might be either desirable or possible has long since seen that dream disappear, never to return – we have an obligation to liberalise trade in agriculture, but we have to do it in a way and at a pace that are manageable and absorbable by european farm communities and that strike the right balance between the interests of different sorts of developing country; and, as i say, they are not the same. however, as european agriculture changes and evolves, the importance of specialised production and products and of those products associated with geographical indications becomes ever greater. that is why the protection of gis remains not only an important but also an indispensable condition for our completion of this round. i say this not only to mrs mann but also to others. this is a single undertaking and that means that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. in my view that is very important. it is a necessary protection that each wto member has to ensure that their vital interests are not shunned or overlooked. if there were no single undertaking, no principle that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, then we would be much weakened and not only us but also other wto members would be less able to protect their vital interests. in my view gis are of vital interest. in conclusion – and i am very much aware that i have not responded to many of the points made or taken up a number of the points – nama is an important issue; i shall address these other issues in remarks i shall be making in a week’s time – let me just say that these multilateral trade talks are very important. why? because multilateralism is important. multilateral processes and institutions are important. yes, the european union will pay extra into this round and into this system in order to keep alive, to strengthen and to carry forward the multilateral values and principles that are at the heart of this round. we will not pay indefinitely and we are not a bottomless pit, but it is true that we are prepared to pay for our principles, not only for the sake of our principles, but also because in a multilateral trade round the potential benefits for the global economy and for us in europe and for the poor and needy people around the world are multiplied to a far greater extent through a multilateralisation of the agreement that we reach than any set of bilateral agreements between ourselves and other countries or regions could possibly achieve. i am not ignoring the bilateral agenda. indeed, we have negotiations, whether it be ongoing, in the case of the gulf states; asean, potentially, when we have our roadmap put in place; and mercosur. incidentally, we need to consider what we are going to keep back from this multilateral agreement for our bilateral mercosur negotiation. first and foremost we must make the multilateral talks successful. it will be a huge challenge in the coming months to achieve that, the way in which we can strengthen international trade rules to drive up standards of trade and social and labour rights, and trade in environment as well. there is a very great deal to achieve in a relatively short space of time. if in the coming months i can get as much negotiation in as mrs kinnock did in her one-and-a-half minutes, i will be travelling at a reasonable rate. it is a wee bit challenging for me to do that. however, given the number of things you have mentioned and registered, which we will carry on in our discussion tomorrow morning, if i can match a part of the same rate of progress i will not be doing badly. (applause)
it is not surprising that commissioner mandelson says he felt that 'developing countries' are not convinced that open markets are good for everyone. it is enough to recall the true face of the liberalization of world trade by the big economic and financial powers: that every three seconds a child dies from preventable causes; that hundreds and hundreds of millions of human beings live in poverty, while wealth is concentrated at the expense of the exploitation of workers and resources that are the heritage of all humanity; that in the last two decades in a group of 73 countries, levels of inequality have increased in 53 of them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the most important thing, they say, is that the negotiations have not "gone off track" and are on schedule. that is why our struggle continues for food sovereignty and security, for the right of every country to develop its economic potential in order to meet the needs and aspirations of its people, for public services, against the privatization of water, for labour rights, for the non-patenting of life.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was part of the european parliament delegation to the montreal conference and i was able to witness the efforts made by commissioner dimas and the british presidency to reach an agreement which, while not ideal, was very reasonable. nevertheless, the american administration has once again raised great difficulties until the last moment, and in the end common sense has prevailed. unfortunately, the american administration does not want to understand that the kyoto protocol is not a problem for the economy. as bill clinton so well said in montreal, clean technologies and energy are the new economy that will create new business and job opportunities. according to a report by the european environment agency, europe has not seen climate change like this in the last 5,000 years. the four warmest years on record were 1998, 2002, 2003, and 2004. if we continue at this rate and if we do not take effective action, global warming will cause the disappearance of glaciers in the north and the expansion of deserts in the south. it is necessary and urgent to go further, to do more than comply with the kyoto protocol. we need to gradually reduce taxes on labour, as professor macclade said, and to focus on taxes on pollution and inefficient use of materials and land. we also need reforms in the allocation of subsidies to transport, housing, energy and agriculture. we need subsidies that encourage sustainable practices and efficient technologies. will we have the courage to do what we must? one thing is certain: if we do not act now, we are mortgaging our children's future.
once again we are faced with an unacceptable proposal for the liberalization of port services, but once again there is an intense struggle by the workers to reject it. a fight which has always had our firm support, as in 2003. this proposal for a directive is part of the so-called 'lisbon strategy', which aims to accelerate liberalization by launching a ferocious attack on the public sector and public services. in addition to the crucial national sovereignty issues involved in this strategic sector, if approved, this proposal would promote unemployment, precariousness and job insecurity, in particular through the so-called self-employment. the attack on collective agreements and trade union rights, the reduction in productivity, the lack of training and professional development, the increase in the risk of serious accidents, all in the name of competition. it is a proposal that is in the interests of the large shipowners. we have therefore tabled a proposal to reject this directive. (applause) i would like to thank
as can be seen from the speeches which have already been made here, this proposal for a directive has generated a huge controversy which extends significantly beyond this house and involves many port operators as well as the general public working in the sector. i would like to stress that we understand their protest but we do not accept the violence with which they have done so. the two committees of this parliament which were called upon to give an opinion on the proposal for a directive both decided to reject it, further undermining its political destiny. the importance of the port sector, mr president, need not be stressed or demonstrated. we all know that almost all external trade in the european union is carried out through its ports and that the workforce associated with port traffic amounts to 350 000 direct jobs, to which we must of course add the indirect jobs. on the other hand, cargo handling techniques and equipment are constantly evolving, which requires continuous investment and renewal. the questions that arise are therefore as follows: is the proposed directive beneficial or not for investment, competition and market access? does it respect the rights acquired in respect of existing operators or not? does it violate the principle of subsidiarity or not? is it fair or unfair as regards compensation in the event of substitution of providers? does it affect the labour market and the social rights of workers in the sector? in short, is it achieving or not achieving the objectives it has set itself of greater efficiency, better competition, more internal market and better services? it is to these questions that the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, has sought to respond with a great sense of balance, and for this i wish to congratulate him. but it seems to me that this proposal for a directive, even in the circumstances in which it was presented by the commission, needs to be revised in the context of a genuine political strategy to stimulate the development of european ports, as the rapporteur himself points out and amends, and which takes account of the current market situation and involves the cooperation of all the parties concerned, including of course the european parliament. the commissioner has the answer. it is obvious that this will make it much easier for us to take a decision consistent with the objectives we have set out.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we do not question the need for a directive or the opening up of the paths of liberalisation, but the proposal for a directive presented in a similar form to that which was rejected at the november 2003 part-session, without taking into account the recommendations of this parliament, is not acceptable. it also creates legal inconsistencies with the international and community regulatory framework, does not ensure compatibility with the current proposal for the revision of council regulation (eec) no 1191 on public service obligations, and does not take account of the specific characteristics of each port, in particular those in the outermost regions where public service is vital for the livelihood of the population and where forced liberalisation can generate socially and economically unacceptable monopolies. if the proposal for a directive is not acceptable, the report aggravates the situation by increasing deregulation, creating problems in terms of safety, the guarantee of public services, the efficient operation of port services, the safeguarding of social rights, as is clear from the proposal to extend self-service without any regulation. for all these reasons, commissioner, this proposal should be withdrawn and a new proposal should be submitted to take account of the recommendations made by parliament. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. in view of the considerations put forward - in particular those which take account of the real financial needs of the maldives to cope with the difficulties currently being felt as a result of the catastrophe of about a year ago, to which all the previous problems are added - and in view of the european parliament's responsibility in this matter, which is different, particularly in technical terms, from that which will be borne by the financial institutions, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. the issues raised by this report are of the greatest interest and warrant significant discussion. it is not in the european parliament - or any other community institution - that this debate should take place. the acquisition of citizenship is a purely national matter, a fundamental expression of the sovereignty of each state and, in my view, non-negotiable. for this reason, and in addition to a profound disagreement with the vast majority of the premises and conclusions contained in this report, i voted against, welcoming the rejection of this report.
in writing. it is unnecessary to repeat the arguments which are so clearly expressed in this report. i think it is right to point out that the trafficking of human beings (and not just women and children, although they are the most vulnerable groups) for sexual or other exploitation deserves our strongest protest. but it is not enough to be firm in protest, we must also be determined and consistent in action. it is obvious from so many reports and so many investigative reports that without cooperation at member state level, the fight against trafficking in human beings is very ineffective. i therefore believe that greater cooperation, better coordination and greater determination are needed.
in writing. i consider it of great importance to establish a strategy for the coherent development of an external policy of the union in the field of air transport. as we know, the creation of this common foreign policy can be achieved either by adapting the existing bilateral agreements to community law or by concluding new global agreements between the community and third countries. moreover, as has been made clear in the many discussions in the commission, this strategy cannot be developed without the agreements with the usa, the russian federation and china. in view of the new needs of the world market and in the context of the various initiatives undertaken by the commission and by the committee on transport and tourism of this parliament, this report deserves my support.
in writing. the union is pursuing its overall strategy for the creation of a common european aviation area in collaboration with its neighbours. it is in this context that we voted for mr zile's report on our relations with china and russia in the field of air transport. these countries share high aviation growth rates and also share challenges in terms of consolidation, liberalisation and modernisation. in view of the specific features of these two countries and while safeguarding issues such as the abolition of overflight charges or the need to extend the scope of the mandate to airport infrastructure and aviation safety, i consider this report to be of significant importance in order to ensure legal clarity through a transitional process which does not jeopardise the economic stability of the sector. i voted in favour of this report, which, i recall, falls within the broader issue of the development of the eu's external relations in aviation policy.
the question period is now over (b6-0676/2005). the following questions were put to the commission. question no 21 by mr bill newton dunn (h-1146/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of interpol databases interpol, which is a wonderful and useful organization and is located in the territory of the european union, maintains a number of databases: on stolen documents, on stolen works of art, on wanted criminals, on fingerprints, etc. these databases are accessible to law enforcement agencies all over the world. does the commission consider that the operation of these databases is fully in line with union laws on the protection of personal data?
mr president, although this is not a point of order, if the commissioner can answer this question in 15 seconds, i will give him the floor.
questions 28 to 30 will be answered in writing. question no 31 by mr bernd posselt (h-1127/05) subject: the eu and ukraine how does the commission assess ukraine's development over the past 12 years and what strategies has it prepared for 2006 to bring this important and entirely european country closer to the eu?
question no 33 will not be taken because its subject is already on the agenda for this part-session. question no 34 is therefore adjourned since its author is not present. question no 35 by mrs inger segelström (h-1160/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the situation in colombia we are concerned about the unrest in colombia, which continues to hamper the democratic process in that country. we note with concern that human rights violations continue. the armed conflict is escalating and the drug trade is intensifying. all of this is a serious obstacle to development and peace in colombia. several swedish voluntary organisations send staff to colombia to participate in peace projects and projects aimed at protecting the rights of local and indigenous peoples, including land rights. at the same time, as in many other latin american countries, there is a rapid development of large companies, particularly in the palm oil production sector. will the commission propose specific measures to support the process of democratization in colombia?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
mr president, as we have stressed in the committee on agriculture, we are very concerned about this sugar reform and the positions which, unfortunately, the council has already taken in anticipation of the debate we are having here. in the proposals we put forward then, we insisted on defending the principle of food sovereignty and food security and on protecting farmers and industry in areas and member states in difficulty, even advocating the increase of production quotas in countries where there is a deficit of production in relation to consumption, as is the case in portugal. we have therefore proposed and continue to advocate an increase in the production quota of the coruche plant in portugal to 120 000 tonnes of sugar beet in order to ensure its economic viability and employment, and to guarantee sugar beet production, given the good conditions in portugal and the large deficit in sugar production compared with consumption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we all agree that the sugar reform is necessary to make this sector more sustainable, in line with the latest reform of the cap, and consistent with the european union's international obligations. however, and despite these new objectives, the reform as proposed by the commission raises serious problems for european farmers, in particular by the excessive reduction in the price of sugar. i therefore support mr fruteau's report and the work of the various political groups in the committee on agriculture, which i believe sends a very clear message to the commission and the council. in addition to limiting the price reduction to 30% in the sugar cmo, amendment no 3 also strengthens the farmers' support system, i.e. the possibility for member states to continue to be able to benefit from a certain amount of production-related subsidies, thus avoiding the rapid extinction of the sugar sector in the regions most vulnerable to this reform. however, i must say that unfortunately the commission's proposal was drawn up more from the perspective of the processing industry than that of agricultural producers and more in the interests of the large surplus producing countries than those of the small ones which do not even have beet production to supply their consumption, as is the case in portugal. in fact, beet production in portugal is based on a single factory which produces about 70 000 of the 300 000 tonnes of beet consumed in the country. it is not therefore countries like portugal that are distorting the international sugar market with surplus production. however, by safeguarding the possibility of the restructuring fund and by supporting those who renounce only part of their quota, we have helped some industries, such as the portuguese, to reorient their vocation from the agricultural ranks to support the transformation side. i would like to make a final protest here against the way in which the council has dealt with this matter institutionally. as much as it may be said that we have only a political agreement and not a formal decision awaiting parliament's position, the truth is that at a time when european citizens are uncomfortable with the transparency of the european institutions, this is not the best way to act. it is not enough to formally follow the interinstitutional agreement. as politicians elected directly by the european citizens, we must also demand that the institutions be respected - ethically and politically.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, we are basically in agreement with the broad guidelines, and since i have only two minutes, i will touch on two points which, in my view, need to be balanced without hypocrisy. the first is called energy security. if we look at the sources where our fossil fuels come from, from the middle east, from venezuela, from nigeria, from algeria and so on, we come to the conclusion that the vast majority of the sources have great political instability, so that no matter how much we equalize our reserves, no matter how much we negotiate long-term contracts, we will have a permanent threat on the energy supply to europe. it is time to rationalize the nuclear energy option, otherwise we shall keep this knife permanently over our heads. the second issue you raised, mr schüssel, was the question of growth, employment, globalisation and the lisbon strategy. we can't be hypocrites here either. i cannot recall a single european project that has been successful, that has developed and has not been monitored by the commission. it is time to say that the strategy, which has been pursued on the basis not of a commission proposal but of intergovernmentalism, is sterile and useless. the commission must be asked to do more. the commission should monitor and define a roadmap. that is what has happened with the internal market and the single currency. we are still in the process of adopting the lisbon strategy, but we are still in the process of adopting the lisbon strategy. that's why we can't mystify the citizens and we have to say: the commission has been given the power it needs to make the lisbon strategy work.
the austrian presidency is beginning its work with important dossiers at hand and at a particularly critical moment in the life of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the liberalization of ports and the creation of the internal market in services, the infamous bolkestein directive, which calls into question the rights of workers and consumers and users of services, and a clear decision to reject the european constitution in the light of the results of the referendums in france and the netherlands, are examples of this. a clear change in monetary policies and macroeconomic priorities is also needed to respond to the serious economic and social problems facing a number of countries, which means repealing the stability pact and replacing it with a genuine pact for progress and social development that promotes public investment, combats unemployment and inequalities in the distribution of income. the presidency's statements are far from answering all these questions, which is nothing new in view of the positions of previous councils, although the statement on the readiness for dialogue is positive. but it's not enough.
in writing. we abstained from the final vote on the resolution on the financial perspective (2007-2013) because we did not agree with the wording of paragraph 4 of the resolution. we believe that the minimum agreement reached was a good agreement for europe, because it allowed the serious political crisis threatening the european union to be averted, even if only temporarily. the use of the word 'rejected' in paragraph 4 conveys to the european public the idea that the european parliament intends to resume the financial debate, which in the present situation will not be possible, let alone desirable. we therefore understand the term 'rejected' as equivalent to 'disaccord', which obviously does not call into question the agreement already reached.
in writing. in december, the council ignored the ep's right/obligation to co-decide and forgot to finance policies central to the lisbon strategy and to europe's action in the world. as a result, the commission is left without resources for citizenship policies, in particular for youth, education, research and culture, to finance the globalisation adjustment fund and for commitments under the union's external action, including peacekeeping missions and countering the proliferation of wmd. i therefore voted in favour of rejecting the agreement in its present form, calling for the opening of a negotiating process to find the missing resources. the presidency should be mandated to negotiate with the ep flexibility reserves to ensure all the necessary resources and to agree a review clause to allow for a review of expenditure in 2008, including the diversion of cap funding to competitiveness and innovation policies, and to reconsider the union's own budgetary resources. it is not a question of reopening the agreement reached in brussels in december, but of supplementing it with the necessary means to finance policies and actions which are indispensable for a more cohesive and competitive europe and a more responsible and credible europe as a global actor.
in writing. the agreement on the community budget for 2007-13, adopted at the december european council, is grossly inadequate in terms of financial resources and inadequate in its priorities and instruments to respond to the economic, social and environmental needs and problems of an enlarged eu of 27 countries. the so-called 'solidarity' is under-represented, with the weight of cohesion policy funding falling from 0.41% of community gni to just 0.37%, despite the increase in economic and social disparities resulting from enlargement. cuts are also made in the social, environmental, agricultural, cooperation, research and cultural fields, while at the same time 'competitiveness', migration control, border and security policies and the common foreign and security policy are financially strengthened, to the detriment of development aid. the interests of the economically more developed countries and their large economic and financial groups have thus triumphed over the interests of the so-called 'cohesion' countries, such as portugal, and of the workers. the whole 'negotiation' process was characterised by the submission of successive proposals, each one more negative than the previous one. the resolution also rejects the council's agreement but reaffirms the ep's negotiating position, which is already inadequate in terms of finances and priorities.
in writing. in the text adopted on the financial perspective, there are two points which would deserve a different treatment. the first is the wording by which the agreement reached in the european council is 'rejected'. there are other terms more appropriate to express the non-acceptance of this agreement. the second is the way in which agricultural policy is mentioned. the way in which some european states have received the most significant funds from the union budget through the cap has made it difficult to advance the process of european integration, preventing more appropriate criteria for allocating funds. for portugal, the agreement reached in the council is positive. but the european parliament has every right to want to initiate a process leading to its improvement. in this process, there was no significant shift in the budgetary methodology and the overall allocation criteria for funds were not changed. solidarity with the southern and eastern cohesion states must continue to be guaranteed. it is essential that support for increased european competitiveness does not disadvantage the currently less competitive economies.
in writing. the first of all duties of a co-decision maker is a sense of responsibility. as has been publicly and notoriously noted, the process leading to the adoption of the financial perspective last december was a complex one, which has revealed how difficult these negotiations can be, particularly in the circumstances in which they are taking place today. i believe, as i have already had the opportunity to say, that the final result of the december summit, although it is less than i would have liked and advocated, is a positive result overall and in the interests of europe and portugal. i therefore think it is legitimate to try to improve this agreement, but never at the risk of losing the consensus we have reached. the interests at stake are too important for the main concern to be primarily in the context of institutional balance.
in writing. i voted against the european council's agreement on the financial perspective because i consider it symptomatic of the crisis europe is going through: it's poor, it's unambitious and it's not inspiring. it is poor in financial amounts when compared to the other institutional partners. but it is also poor because the european council's proposal is more a summation of the demands put forward by the different member states than an expression of any kind of political will. it has no ambition to show any obvious signs of inconsistency with previously adopted policies. the frustration of european citizens and their sense of ineffectiveness towards the european institutions is heightened when decisions are taken one day and presented to public opinion as clear signs of progress on certain matters of interest to europeans, and then the next day the council itself does not guarantee in the financial perspective the means for these actions to go ahead. finally, this agreement does not generate any enthusiasm because it does not honour the commitments made to the applicant countries (bulgaria and romania). this kind of attitude is called hypocrisy in english.
in writing. the europe of freedom and values must clearly and transparently assert the unequivocal protection of citizens' rights and the primacy of the law in the rule of law. the fight against terrorism must be done in this field. in this way, not only do we not betray our cultural heritage, but we also enjoy broad international support and we are distinguished from terrorists by our profound respect for people and all their rights. this temporary committee should develop its work in order to collect and analyse all information that is relevant to ascertaining the veracity of the facts reported by the washington post and corroborated by human rights watch. it is essential that the truth be revealed, not only because persistent doubt ends up feeding suspicion and encouraging speculation, but also because it is clear that under no circumstances can we allow european territory to be used for secret detention practices, as this would be shameful and would be clearly in conflict with international human rights rules and with european rules and values themselves.
in writing. conflict situations, particularly the military conflict in which the united states and its allies are involved, require even greater attention to respect for the fundamental values, the civilization values, which we defend. it's in extreme situations that you have to be more demanding. i therefore support all those in europe and the united states who have raised their voices against any abuse or disregard of these values. in that sense, i stand here, as i have had occasion to do on other occasions, and express my clear position. that said, and with regard to the so-called 'cia flights', i cannot but deplore the terms in which this debate has been conducted, a debate often based on allegations, suspicions and vague accusations where the word of our allies and the highest political leaders of the member states seems to be the least valued. in this context, i believe that the conference of presidents has succeeded in finding a justified solution, which is above all balanced and compatible with the role which the european parliament can play in this matter, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. our commitment to what should be, in a broad sense, the whole middle east peace process requires that the european union take a clear and consistent stand in defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. in this case, the steps taken in lebanon require our support not only in form but also in substance and in practice, which means, in particular, our cooperation in all matters relating to the search for the truth in the case of the assassination of former prime minister rafiq hariri. i therefore voted in favour of this report, but i do not want to leave out the procedural issues raised by the rapporteur, which i think deserve attention.
in writing. the final report of the conciliation on the management of waste from the extractive industries, which is also of interest to portugal, was approved positively. with this new legislation, there is a strengthening of environmental rules in several member states and a greater obligation for industries to repair sites after they have ceased their industrial activities, taking on their responsibilities in protecting the environment and public health. equally important is the inventory of existing situations to be made so that appropriate action can be taken. let us hope that there is a consensual practice for these purposes.
in writing. this directive is an important piece of environmental legislation. after the commendable work of the rapporteur and the entire parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, i can only express my support for this report given the important measures envisaged to help reduce the negative effects on the environment and the risks to human health resulting from waste from the extractive industries. i therefore voted in favour of mr sjöstedt's report.
in writing. i am clearly in favour of this proposal, which is of particular importance for my country, portugal, which has a coastline that is almost half the length of the national border, rich in rivers and other waterways, with a people with bathing habits and an increasing number of water sports practitioners. this proposal represents a significant step forward in terms of protecting public health and the environment, since the proposed amendments bring clear improvements in the knowledge, control and quality of bathing waters. the text obtained in the conciliation committee fills in gaps and updates the regulation currently in force on bathing water quality. the degree of demand has increased in the case of new bacteriological parameters for water quality to be considered 'sufficient', the mandatory nature of information and the right of public participation and the standardisation of signage in all eu countries, which represents a significant reduction in health risks and contributes to the prevention of diseases and infections.
in writing. the most important part of the solution is to update the 1976 bathing water directive, which is outdated in the face of the development of scientific knowledge and health requirements. the rapporteur believes that the implementation of these amendments will reduce the risks for bathers from 12% to 7.5%. this means that the very difficult reconciliation of very divergent positions has ended with a satisfactory but insufficient result, particularly as regards the parameters which are now mandatory. it is in the area of public information that there are the greatest gains. it is expected that the information will be made public in due course and visible at bathing water sites.
in writing. the text obtained in the conciliation committee and now being put to the vote contains very positive amendments to the proposal submitted at second reading on 21 april 2005. the non-incorporation of the proposal for the abolition of the distinction between coastal and inland waters in the package of measures to be adopted and the non-abolition in the final text of the classification of 'sufficient' quality safeguards portugal's best interests in this area and is in line with the latest recommendations of the who. i welcome the proposed parameters for assessing the quality of bathing water and the methodology adopted for their assessment and classification, and therefore support their adoption. i believe that this will not only improve the quality of the environment but also help to protect and inform citizens better about the quality of the bathing water they use.
in writing. the agreement reached in conciliation on the bathing water quality management directive is based on new criteria for water quality assessment and public information. for portugal, these criteria of greater demand and better information to the public are fundamental, not only because of the extent of the portuguese coast but also because of the social, cultural and economic value that this coast and its numerous waterways represent for the country, in terms of tourist activities but also in terms of socio-cultural activities. all measures must be taken to prevent and reduce health risks. i therefore consider this proposal to be of significant importance for the protection of public health and the environment. the proposed amendments therefore bring clear improvements in the knowledge, control and quality of bathing water, while maintaining the desired balance in terms of the costs associated with the introduction of the new quality criteria. i voted in favour of mr maaten's report.
in writing. we consider important the amendments adopted today to the report on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention in the european institutions, which gives priority to the public's right to know the procedures for participation in decision-making, namely how to use them, the right of access to information and finally access to justice in environmental matters. for example, changes were made to the setting of environmental policy priorities and public participation in environmental policy-making, and it became mandatory to clearly indicate how to obtain information, including information on the status of infringement proceedings and the availability of information by considering the results of the various consultations. however, in some areas it falls short of the requirements of the convention, in particular in the area of access to justice, in that no assistance mechanisms are established to reduce or eliminate recurrent financial obstacles, and in the vast majority of cases access to justice is conditioned precisely by the lack of financial means of those who have recourse to it. but taken as a whole, it is an important step towards ensuring effective participation (through procedures developed within reasonable time limits) and access to information that allows for duly reasoned and democratic participation.
in writing. the european union can only develop and assert itself if it is based on values such as solidarity, peace, social coexistence and the uncompromising defence of public tranquillity. the debate in the european parliament on the directive on access to the market in port services took place in an environment of unlawful pressure and violence which resulted in unjustified material and personal damage. it is not acceptable to grant any benefits to those who break the law and the rules of coexistence. so, regardless of the intrinsic value of the matters dealt with in the directive and the balance of social interests achieved, i have decided to abstain.
, in writing. we voted against the proposal for a directive because we believe that a disorderly and uncontrolled liberalisation of access to the public services market will create serious problems for public safety and health, for the guarantee of the provision and sustainability of a service, also of a public nature, and will lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of the service itself. three years after the first commission proposal in this area, which was rejected at the time, we are again faced with a motion for a resolution voted against by the competent commission, a vote which sends a clear message to this parliament: a text which is likely to create a whole series of legal inconsistencies with the existing international regulatory framework but also with existing community law - for example, with regulation (eec) no 1191/69 on the obligations inherent in the concept of public service - and which favours a total deregulation of self-service cannot be considered positive. however, the same message goes further and clearly states that a proposal applicable to substantially different ports, where forced liberalization could generate economically negative monopolies and, finally, a proposal with harmful social consequences, cannot be considered on its merits as a proposal plausible for adoption by the representatives of the peoples of europe.
in writing. the proposal we tabled to reject the port services directive has been adopted! for the second time, the attempt to liberalize port services was defeated, following the significant mobilization of workers in the sector, who from the outset fought - strengthening and deepening existing contradictions - against this new offensive that attacked employment with rights and put a strategic sector for national development in the hands of the large international shipowners. but we must remain alert to any new attempt at the level of the european union to re-introduce what has now been rejected for the second time. we must firmly oppose any further attempts to liberalize port services, whether by including this sector in the unacceptable proposal for a directive on the internal market in services or by implementing it in stages by re-introducing the proposal for intra-community maritime traffic. as the workers point out, there is no justification for a community directive on the sector. at this moment we must welcome the victory of the workers' struggle in the port sector, a victory which is part of the struggle of workers in the various countries against the neo-liberal policies of the european union which, in pursuit of the interests of the large economic and financial groups, attack the rights of workers and the national public sector and services.
in writing. this declaration of vote is needed to accompany the european parliament in its satisfaction with the essential progress made in the democratization process in afghanistan over the past few years. the taliban regime is long gone, its horrors, its violation of the most elementary rules and principles of respect for human rights. not everything is done, but afghanistan today is, arguably, a better place than it had been in the past decades. this satisfaction cannot, however, ignore two aspects. on the one hand, as has already been said, there is still a lot to be done at various levels in afghanistan. on the other hand, the need for the international community, in particular the european union and its member states, to continue its committed aid, both in material and human terms, aware that this process is time-consuming but, as it turns out, encouraging.
in writing. the concern expressed by this motion for a resolution, as well as by others which have already been discussed in this parliament, deserves my agreement in all that concerns the enunciation of a set of principles which i stand by and defend. all hatred deserves our rejection, all discrimination before the law must be fought. there is, however, a set of explicit proposals in this resolution which i believe go beyond what i believe should be the scope of the european parliament and which i believe clearly invade what should be the sphere of the national states. in addition, there is a tendency among some political groups, which i do not share and which i reject, to try to get approval in the institutions of the european union for what is rejected in its member states. i disagree with that path. finally, i would remind you that phobias, as an expression of behavioural disorders, are not combated at the legislative or parliamentary level.
in writing. we are against all discrimination and violence. there can be no exception in this respect, no doubt or hesitation. but it is not to be confused with 'homophobia' to have a free democratic debate in the member states on their civil law, particularly on family law or personal status. that would create a framework of intellectual coercion and conditioning that is totally incompatible with an open and democratic society. you can't confuse disagreements with phobias. you cannot nurture or invent feelings of hatred and intolerance. to label disagreements as "phobias" is itself an extreme. much of the resolution does not, in fact, fit the definition of 'homophobia' set out in recital a, and thus loses its relevance and its relevance. in addition, in several respects it conflicts with the principle of subsidiarity, a guiding principle and foundation of the whole union, which only serves to harm the european construction. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. we consider the resolution tabled following the 11th conference of the parties to the montreal convention on climate change to be generally positive, as it underlines the willingness of the parties to comply with the kyoto protocol and deplores the us administration's reluctance to join any meaningful international partnership on climate change. however, we disagree with some points in the final resolution and regret that our proposals were not adopted. we particularly regret that the proposal which we support and which called for an urgent review of the relevant flexible mechanisms before the community's emissions trading scheme could be extended to other areas (e.g. aviation) was not voted on. we believe that an analysis is needed to demonstrate that such enlargement will contribute to combating climate change and that rich countries/areas will not be privileged at the expense of developing countries and industries. we also disagree with the insistence, even for the purpose of an evaluation, on the trading of pollution rights.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report which seeks to assess the environmental aspects of sustainable development and which makes some criticisms of the commission's position on the inadequacy of some guidelines and the scarcity of financial resources. although it does not clearly call into question the policies at the root of environmental problems, in particular the focus on competitiveness to the detriment of people and the environment, always subordinated to the logic of profit, it has positive aspects in its defence of less polluting transport, the role of land and forest planning, the need to ensure food supply. the relationship between poverty and the environment is also positive, although it is regrettable that the most important point in this area was rejected in plenary, including the assertion that the policies of liberalization do not address the problems of poverty and social exclusion and the criticism that the proposals on the fight against poverty, social exclusion and the increase in inequalities are inadequate.
in writing. today, sustainable development is without a shadow of a doubt a fundamental objective of the european union and a global challenge. sustainable development strategies therefore require a long-term political vision at the highest level. in the face of the social, environmental and democratic challenges we face, it is essential to act responsibly, not only at the level of public authorities, but also at the level of citizens. we must, however, be careful in all the measures we take with regard to our objectives of growth and social and economic development, which are fundamental for the future of our societies. this report not only assessed progress made since 2001, but also outlined new measures. in this process we must therefore reiterate the need to reaffirm sustainable development as a priority for the future of europe, while maintaining our objective of meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i therefore voted in favour of mrs ferreira's report.
i would ask you to stop speaking, mr president, because the interpreters have been instructed not to translate from catalan. if i wish to continue in this language, my colleagues will not be able to understand what i say.
as i have pointed out to the honourable member, his speech was not translated by interpreters and will not be reproduced in the plenary session.
mr president, the european parliament is giving the go-ahead to a great debate today. political institutions and social actors, with the mobilization of the media, will take responsibility for facing the question: does europe want to win the future or not? the constitutional question is not simply a question of the architecture of institutions. it is above all the way in which europe combines the efficiency of its institutions with a moral conscience about the world. all of us, european citizens, in the corridors of power and in the union's vital space, feel this challenge. how to govern a vast, open cosmopolitan space? how can we achieve a project of justice that is both within and outside the borders of europe? how do you build a way of life that's not based on tradition? how can europe be made a democratic power, the founder of a new world order? how can we set an example for a union of peoples? how can we find a common form of defence of human rights in the world? how do you find a common way to influence the world? how do we give politics its programming power back over a globalised and deregulated economy? how do you connect fairness and efficiency? how to open the door to new political models? the future leaves us no room for fear. it is urgent to discuss political integration, to discuss a more cosmopolitan and humane way of life, to discuss the extent to which a constitution represents and builds our european identity, because our european identity is not born of tradition, our identity is born of morality, will and reason.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of parliament, i would like to welcome mr paavo lipponen, president of the finnish parliament, and the delegation accompanying him.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in chechnya after the elections and civil society in russia.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
mr president, i welcome mr tannock's report on the new european neighbourhood policy, which should be one of the european union's most strategically important instruments, including from the point of view of global security, as commissioner ferrero-waldner has stressed, and which i also support. it is no good for the union to close itself off at its borders as a fortress to protect itself against terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking, illegal immigration, trafficking in women and children, among other causes of insecurity. no matter how high the walls are, they'll always be permeable. lampedusa, ceuta and melilla are dramatic examples. good neighbourliness means increased security for neighbours. this is why it is important to implement this new policy properly, which will enable us to support our neighbours through specific programmes which have a direct impact on strengthening their security and ours. by helping them to solve their security problems we also contribute to widening the space of stability around us. but the european security ring that this new policy aims to build would present a gap on the south-western flank if cape verde, despite its strong links to europe and a common border with the european union through the canary islands, were not also a beneficiary of this instrument. the report must provide a solution that will enable this country to qualify for programmes under the european neighbourhood policy. the european union cannot allow cape verde to become the weakest link in its circle of neighbours. cape verde can and should play an important role in european and global security if it can benefit from programmes under the european neighbourhood policy. it is necessary to help the cape verdean authorities to prevent their territory from becoming a platform for organised crime, illegal immigration and terrorism. i therefore propose, with the support of my group, two amendments to the report, which i hope will have the general support of this parliament.
the neighbourhood policy must be a more open concept, not restricted to the mediterranean itself or to the eastern border of the european union. we must not forget that we have other neighbours on our atlantic sea borders. both because of their importance and because of the particular sensitivity they represent for european security, they should also deserve special attention in this context. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. some say that the cape verdean case has its own framework in the acp area. but that is too square and out of touch with reality. we must be able to define policies that make a fruitful, agile and imaginative cross-section of neighbourhood policy with other frameworks, whether in the acp or other fields. this is our need; and cape verde also deserves it for the exemplary performance of its people in democracy, good governance and respect for human rights, as well as the deep historical, social, political, cultural and geographical affinities with the european union. i therefore call for a vote in favour of amendments nos 11, 12, 36 and 38.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. but more importantly, measures must be put in place to effectively support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which has not happened, on the contrary. the neoliberal policies have created enormous difficulties for micro and small enterprises. as the report itself says, it is not enough to have a european charter for small enterprises. the actions of the charter for small enterprises must be integrated into the overall policy for smes and supplemented by binding action both at community level and within the member states. it is particularly important that small and micro-enterprises can make use of european programmes, and it is therefore important to create the conditions that facilitate their access to community funds, either through changes to be introduced in the regulations or through the creation of direct support mechanisms and clear support to their associations to overcome the financial, bureaucratic, tax and other obstacles that continue to persist. financial instruments for small enterprises and craft enterprises should also be strengthened, in particular mutual guarantee schemes and flexible microfinance schemes for family enterprises, enterprises set up by women and by young people, contributing to the co-financing of projects and providing relevant information. it must be borne in mind that if no action is taken, the european union will be faced with the closure of millions of small and craft enterprises in the next 10 years, with the risk of losing millions of jobs, worsening poverty, the desertification of rural areas and contributing to social exclusion. as the report says - and i thank mrs vlasto for her work - it is therefore essential that the european institutions and the member states implement and develop the actions provided for in the european charter to the full. it must also be made binding, not just a palliative to this charter, and its content must not be emptied by its inclusion in the lisbon strategy, as commissioner verheugen has just said, which worries me.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, gender equality has not been a priority in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. however, without the active participation of women, the lisbon agenda will be a failure. unfortunately, the invisibility of the gender dimension as a policy of a transversal nature is evident in european political discourse and, above all, in european political practice. most documents produced by the european institutions and the member states are still very much marked by the male paradigm. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century, ten years after the beijing platform, women continue to suffer all kinds of discrimination at work, in the family, in politics and in society, and that reconciling family and working life is still an unfulfilled goal, even though it is recognised that family life is the main reason for women's exclusion from the labour market. unemployment rates are 10% for women and 8.3% for men. in addition, women earn lower salaries, although they have more qualifications: 58% of graduates are women and 41% of doctorates. political power, businessmen and society in general have not yet realised that the compatibility of women's lives is a politically and socially relevant issue. maternity cannot be seen as a problem for employers or the economy. on the contrary, it is a service to society, as it allows the low birth rate and the ageing population to be tackled while ensuring the sustainability of the social security system. so it is unacceptable that women should be penalized for being mothers. but the fact is that they do not advance in their careers, they do not receive the usual productivity or profit sharing bonuses or they have to submit to the most insignificant and less rewarding tasks professionally and, when a worker finds that in the company the bosses are more understandable with those who want to leave earlier to get the car to the repair shop than with those who have to pick up the child from the nursery, it says everything about the mentality of the holders of economic power and about the devaluation of the tasks traditionally assigned to women. on the other hand, society is organized according to rules laid down by men. they are the ones who set the hours, forgetting that you have to pick up the children from the nursery and that you have to stock the pantry to feed the family. this is a problem for everyone, not just women. sharing of household chores must be encouraged by appropriate policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. it is well established that the sharing of family responsibilities between men and women is the first step towards the indispensable reconciliation of family and professional life. women have the same right to work as men, but they cannot work as much outside the home as men and three times as much inside the home. the participation of women in the political, social and economic spheres is indispensable to social progress. gender equality is a very topical and very modern issue and should be part of the daily political agenda of the european union. equal representation in the legislature should be a fundamental objective of the member states. the integration of women into the decision-making process is a modern requirement and an indispensable condition for the strengthening of democracy. we must abandon the idea that women are for work but not for decision-making. the road is long and full of choices but it must be traveled without further loss of time. women cannot wait for generations to change their minds and for the system to self-regulate. they have to be women, because no one voluntarily gives up centuries of power to fight for the right to share equality with men, both in the public and private spheres. one thing is certain: those who have privileges do not want to lose them, those who are well seated in the seat of power do not rise unless they are forced to. history shows that in this regard the proverbial male courtesy has not worked. this report aims to help change some of these negative situations. i therefore ask for the support of the european parliament and hope that once it has been adopted, the commission and the member states will take account of the proposals and recommendations contained in it. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the contribution of the thematic department, the secretariat of the committee on women's rights and the colleagues who have tabled amendments. thank you all so much. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as we have pointed out on several occasions, the reality confirms that the implementation of the lisbon strategy has given priority only to liberalization and labour flexibility, which, together with the stability pact, is having negative repercussions in the social field, affecting women in particular. it is not enough to proclaim the need for urgent action to promote employment, quality of employment and social inclusion of women in order to achieve the lisbon objectives. the policies that are undermining equal rights and perpetuating discrimination against women, particularly in the labour market, must be changed. in addition to the increase in unemployment among thousands of women affected by the restructuring and relocation of multinationals and by the industrial sectors affected by the liberalization of international trade, such as textiles, clothing, footwear and many others, the new jobs created are increasingly precarious, poorly paid, discriminatory and disrespectful of the rights of working women. however, within the framework of the so-called 'lisbon strategy', new proposals for directives are under discussion which could further aggravate discrimination against women, contributing to the worsening of unemployment and social exclusion. the cases of the proposed directive on the organization of working time and the infamous bolkenstein directive on liberalization in the services sector are noteworthy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. a code of discipline on members must be designed with the greatest parsimony. the subject is controversial. parliament is freedom made institution. it was in political representation that democracy found the ideal way to fulfil its legitimating foundation - legislation as an act of the will of those represented, as consent, as autonomy. and this is how democratic political systems have characterised the parliamentary institution: publicity and transparency of debates, popular control of members in periodic elections. representatives have the "special status" that comes with being the "map of the people". your freedom is a right and a duty. your responsibility is political. your trial is, as popper said, election day. that is why the epp has taken a very cautious approach in the committee on constitutional affairs. because a code like this has limits. the limits that come from the integrity of the exercise of the mandate. the limits of the freedom with which the people made parliament, in which they represent themselves in parliament and which they do not want to see amputated in parliament.
in writing. the sense of responsibility, respect and intellectual elevation with which the mandate of a member of parliament must be exercised have never been incompatible with the ways in which members express themselves. on the contrary, i did. while it is true that some intolerable excesses are well known, it is equally true that some countries even cultivate practices and customs which in no way diminish the prestige of their assemblies, even giving them a character of their own and idiosyncratic. consider, for example, the british case. i therefore believe that it is mainly practice - which in the case of the european parliament is necessarily still in the making - that will determine rules and behaviour - in addition, of course, to what is laid down in the regulations in force. the mandate of a member of the european parliament is an exercise of freedom and responsibility and there is no reason to believe that the elected representatives lack either of these.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague dominique vlasto on the important report he has produced on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises, which i support, particularly as regards the application of the european charter for small enterprises to a wide range of countries, including not only the candidate countries for accession to the european union but also the mediterranean countries, thus contributing to the development of the european neighbourhood policy. there is an urgent need to adopt specific simplified measures and investment programmes to strengthen investment in innovation by regional and local small enterprises, in particular through the creation and development of regional venture capital funds and 'business angels' funding.
in writing. the report on the european charter for small enterprises is of great importance given the nature of the european business fabric, which is mainly composed of small enterprises. as rapporteur on sustainable tourism for the union, i cannot help but follow the measures being taken in this key area for tourism, which is without doubt the most promising economic sector for european economic growth and development. we note that the training of the workforce, the development of the entrepreneurial spirit and the improvement of legislation are the priorities which will make it possible to exploit the strengths of this sector, to combat its weaknesses and to support growth in the various countries which have signed the charter. i therefore voted in favour of mrs vlasto's report.
in writing. smes are the backbone of the european economy, job creation and regional development. the involvement of smes is therefore fundamental and unavoidable for the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which aim to strengthen sustainable growth and the creation of more and better jobs. i therefore support the implementation of a european sme charter by enabling eu member states to benefit from their respective experiences through the exchange of good practice. this implementation report aims to strengthen the sme dimension in community policies and therefore recommends the rationalisation of existing european instruments. this report also draws attention once again to the difficulties faced by smes in accessing community programmes and their funding. in addition to these obstacles to access, the situation will tend to worsen as the financial envelope for the next financial perspective (2007-2013), as approved by the european council, has been the victim of blind cuts of the order of 50% of the funds. these include projects benefiting smes under the 'competitiveness, growth and jobs' category and, more specifically, the 7th framework programme for development and the competitiveness and innovation programme.
in writing. i recognize the need to reform the european sugar sector. however, in order to be fair and effective, the reform must strike a balance between:the international trade commitments undertaken;the proposed objectives of increasing the competitiveness of the sector;the stability of the community market;the viability and sustainability of the sector, in particular with regard to guaranteeing the incomes of european producers; and the preferential trade regime granted by the european union to acp countries and least developed countries, notably through incentives for sugar exports to the eu under the 'everything but arms' initiative. to this end, the broad guidelines for the reform proposed in this report, as well as the amendments to this effect to improve the european commission's reform proposals, concerning: a more moderate price reduction; the establishment of trade regulations; the implementation of measures to mitigate the economic impact of the reform; and support for the development of alternative products for the disposal of sugar production, seem appropriate to me and deserve my agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. it is agreed that reform of the sugar sector is necessary to make this important sector more sustainable in line with the latest cap reform and consistent with the eu's international obligations. however, and despite these noble aims, the reform as proposed by the commission raises serious problems for european farmers, in particular the excessive reduction in the price of sugar. i therefore support mr fruteau's reports and the outcome of the work of the various political groups in the committee on agriculture, which i believe send a very clear message to the commission and the council. in addition to the limitation of the price reduction to 30% in the sugar cmo, i would stress amendment no 3, namely the possibility for member states to continue to be able to benefit from a certain amount of production-related subsidies, thus avoiding the rapid extinction of the sugar sector in the european regions most vulnerable to this reform. i would also stress the safeguarding of the possibility for the restructuring fund to support those who renounce only part of their quota (amendment no 7), thus allowing some industries to be helped in their conversion.
in writing. the sugar reform is necessary to make this sector more sustainable, following the latest cap reform. however, this reform could cause serious problems for european farmers, in particular by excessively reducing the price of sugar. the fact that the commission's proposal was drawn up more in the interests of the large surplus producing countries than in the interests of the small ones, such as portugal, which do not even have beet production to supply their consumption, only reminds us that it is not countries like portugal that are distorting the international market. i would like to recall the possibility, proposed in this report, that member states may continue to benefit from a certain amount of subsidies linked to production, thus avoiding the rapid extinction of the sugar sector in the regions most vulnerable to this reform. it seems to me that the possibility of the restructuring fund and the support for those who renounce only part of their quota have been safeguarded, so that some industries, such as the portuguese, can be reoriented away from agriculture to support the processing side. i therefore voted in favour of mr fruteau's reports.
in writing. the report in question deserves my support, and i have therefore voted in favour of it. the european constitution is not dead! the 'no' vote in the french and dutch referendums on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe did not mean its 'death', but only the suspension of its ratification, which was then under way. however, in view of the negative result of the french and dutch referendums, it does not seem possible to continue trying to ratify the current text without amending it. however, it is out of the question to abandon the draft constitution altogether. a constitutional agreement, as the rapporteurs point out, is indispensable for the european union to (re) gain the trust of european citizens, to maintain the momentum of european integration and to assert a credible role on the international scene. in this sense, the 'period of reflection' should serve to relaunch the draft constitution on the basis of a broad public debate on the future of europe involving citizens, civil society, the social partners and national and regional parliaments. this debate should seek to clarify, deepen and improve the european constitution, to examine the criticisms which have been levelled at it and to find solutions to the constitutional crisis, as well as to respond to the aspirations of european citizens.
in writing. we voted against this report because we consider it to be an unacceptable pressure on the member states and their democratic institutions, after the people of france and the netherlands rejected the european constitution. although the european parliament recognises that ratification of the constitution now faces 'difficulties which may prove insurmountable' unless action can be taken to respond to the concerns expressed in france, the netherlands and other member states, a majority insists that the current reflection period be transformed into a relaunch of the constitutional project, on the basis of a broad public debate on the future of european integration. what the majority of the ep wants is a major propaganda campaign to put pressure on the people to accept the so-called european constitution. while we agree that the treaty of nice does not constitute a basis for future prospects - which is why we voted against it - we are opposed to attempts to pursue a path of deepening neoliberalism, federalism and militarism. we want a europe where there is greater cooperation between sovereign and equal states, greater economic and social cohesion, more solidarity and a europe which is truly committed to peace and social progress.
in writing. the majority of meps - including the ps/psd - approved a report which, as the popular saying goes, 'makes the party, launches the rockets and catches the canes'. under the guise of a 'period of reflection', he says a debate is needed, but for which - let the devil take them - he has already drawn his conclusion: 'relaunch the constitutional project'; 'avoid another setback'; 'deepen' the 'consensus on the european constitution'; 'publicity', with 'appropriate funding', to 'reassure and convince public opinion'; 'ensure that it comes into force', 'during 2009'. the ep is not only not competent in this area, but it is also trying to hide the fact that the so-called 'european constitution' has not already been rejected, which is not true. it was rejected by the french and dutch peoples and has since ceased to have any value, as provided for in the treaties. it is no coincidence that the european union's largest employer (unice) states in the terms of reference it has submitted to the austrian presidency that 'there is an urgent need to find a way out of the eu's institutional crisis'. and criticism: the "pause for reflection..., seems to be more pause than reflection". the big business in europe and the political forces that implement its guidelines, once again disregarding the expressed will of the people, are trying to take the initiative.
in writing. i congratulate mr duff and mr voggenhuber on the excellent report they have produced on the reflection period: structure, themes and context for an assessment of the debate on european union - and i agree with the proposal that this reflection period should be used to relaunch the constitutional project on the basis of a broad public debate on the future of european integration. i also agree with the suggestion that this new democratic dialogue, which should be seen as an opportunity to promote democracy in europe, should be conducted and coordinated throughout the union, structured around common themes and in realistic phases, according to an agreed evaluation framework and designed to lead to decisive policy choices. i recognise the strategic importance of political institutions in encouraging a proactive attitude of the media, in particular the local television, press and radio, by mobilising them for publicity and intensifying the debate. i also agree that the conclusions of the reflection period should be drawn up by the second half of 2007 at the latest, and that a clear decision should then be taken on how to proceed with the european constitution, and that in any event every effort should be made to ensure that the european constitution enters into force during 2009.
in writing. the need to adapt the institutional structure of the european union to its immediate future, bearing in mind its possible enlargements, is present in our concerns. i agree with the idea that we will have to resume the institutional debate shortly. i also believe that the debate on the 'constitutional treaty' must be concluded. the idea that there should be reflection and debate on this matter and that there should be a definitive moment deserves my agreement and will have my support. however, the idea, implicit in the thinking of some, that only one outcome is possible, whatever it may be, that one has not my agreement, nor will it have my support. the debate, and in particular the debate which citizens are asked to have, is by its nature open and free, and any attempt to condition it will merit my active objection.
in writing. the eu cannot relegate to the background its duty as a great defender of respect for international law and the development of a social market economy. to do this we need to shape the eu's face in the world, giving the european neighbourhood policy (enp) an absolutely pivotal role in maintaining constructive relations with those closest to us, with a view to building an area of peace and prosperity. my vote in favour of the tannock report is based on the importance it attaches to the values enshrined in article 6 of the maastricht treaty as the cornerstone of the enp, while making it clear that this policy is not an alternative to eu membership. finally, i welcome the recognition of the contribution that future partners, such as cape verde, will bring to our joint fight against terrorism, the illegal arms trade, poverty and human slavery. this recognition is due to their excellent geostrategic position and the fundamental reforms that many of them have carried out, while not forgetting a long-standing cultural and historical affinity resulting from their close geographical proximity to both the european continent and the outermost regions, including those in the atlantic.
in writing. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) demonstrates the high priority the eu gives to building future relations with its neighbours, irrespective of possible accession. it is indeed in the eu's interest to contribute to democratic development in its immediate neighbourhood. the enp should more clearly develop a strategy for relations with neighbours that contributes to the construction and development of a common area of peace, stability, security, respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and prosperity, as well as offering third countries privileged relations and a leading position in the eu's external relations with other regions of the world. i support the rapporteur's proposals which stress the need to increase funding for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument to deal with the problem of access to the single market, to define a clear strategy for the fight against international terrorism and organised crime, to improve links in energy and transport networks and to cooperate in the field of the environment. finally, special attention should be paid to energy policy, as the eu is surrounded by the world's largest oil and natural gas reserves.
in writing. the european union has the means and conditions to be a relevant player on the international scene. not in the way some would like, but not without being an important player in international relations. this reflection comes in the context of the european neighbourhood policy - understood both formally and in substance - since it is precisely here, in my view, that the union can and must play its main role at international level. i am in favour of further enlargement, but i am aware that this process is finite and that it will always be necessary to develop policies to promote a vast area of peace, security and prosperity around our area. this is both a geostrategic necessity and a moral obligation. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that parliament should closely monitor this policy - and its financial framework - because it is here that it is possible to move from the proclamatory to the effective level. the example of the mediterranean experience is not one to leave us reassured or hopeful. others are, though. let us, then, follow our own good examples.
in writing. cape verde demonstrates exemplary performance in democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and has deep historical, social, political, cultural and geographical affinities with the european union. these make it a privileged and exceptional platform for the development and strengthening of the euro-african relationship and a factor of stability and security on one of the flanks of the european space. despite being europe's south-western atlantic frontier, cape verde has been included in other programmes which, by themselves, do not reflect its true proximity, nor do they recognise its identification with common values such as the rule of law, the promotion of good neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development. it is known that contacts have been developed between the cape verdean authorities and the main opposition party to promote the granting of special status or partnership with the european union. the inclusion of this country in the neighbourhood policy could be an important step in this direction and a decisive counterpoint to a neighbourhood policy which would be very poor if it were strictly centred on the southern and eastern borders of the union. i welcome the adoption of amendments nos 36 and 38.
in writing. the economic, social and environmental renewal of the european union envisaged in the lisbon strategy aims to promote a more dynamic and competitive europe of knowledge, accompanied by a qualitative and quantitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. i subscribe substantially to these objectives, but my concern goes above all to european families facing the persistent inequalities in our societies. these need to be countered in such a way as to promote a balance between work, family and private life. only then will we build a society based on education and lifelong learning, with knowledge and information for our citizens as its cornerstones. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report by mrs edite estrela.
in writing. social inclusion and respect for gender equality are fundamental principles underpinning the lisbon strategy. however, these principles are still good intentions. the reality of gender equality is indeed confrontational: differences in employment rates, pay, access to and progression in the labour market, levels of education, participation in vocational training programmes, and greater difficulty in reconciling work and family life. although equal treatment is a fundamental principle of community law, it is urgent to move from political principles to concrete action. the diagnosis is long-standing. the catch is it's always the same: the member states lack the courage and determination to implement the solutions already identified. the financial perspective, as adopted by the european council, does not bode well, given the brutal cuts to the funds most closely linked to the lisbon strategy. i hope that the negotiations between the european parliament, the commission and the council will be able to minimise the damage already done.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the high representative, in the introduction to his statement, pointed out that the first 31 days of this year and thus of the austrian presidency of the council were a turbulent period. indeed they were. the first council meeting, chaired by the austrian foreign minister two days ago, proved this by the agenda. it was important that we in the council had the opportunity to discuss the issues that mr solana raised in so many of his speeches and to take decisions with a clear statement. it is important that the european union should be closed to the outside world and be clear and unambiguous on the important issues of today's world. we are of course doing this together with the commission, and we are also seeking dialogue and discussion with you in the european parliament. i would remind you that during the 31 days of the austrian presidency the foreign minister, many other council presidents and i myself have had several opportunities to discuss with the european parliament many of the issues which interest you. i would also like to recall that i had the opportunity - and i am very grateful for that - yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs to report on the foreign policy aspects of the first council meeting under the austrian presidency. we want to continue to offer this willingness to talk as the austrian presidency of the council and to continue to talk to the european parliament. in this brief statement i would like to concentrate on two main points: firstly, the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic options of the common foreign and security policy - our agenda item - and secondly, the relations between the european parliament and the council with regard to the cfsp budget. the first is that the council will draw up a report setting out the main aspects and basic options of the common foreign and security policy, including the financial implications for the general budget. this is provided for in the 1999 interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. the council accordingly submitted to the european parliament in april 2005 the report for 2004, which is on our agenda today. in this 2005 report, the council seeks to respond to parliament's request to reflect the european security strategy. the report therefore paid particular attention to the important issues of the security strategy. the following common foreign and security policy issues were discussed in particular: crisis management and conflict prevention, the fight against terrorism, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and small arms, external relations in different geographical regions, etc. the aim was to produce a comprehensive report covering the full range of results and activities in the field of the common foreign and security policy. these reports are in line with the reporting requirements and help to increase the visibility and transparency of work on cfsp matters. an effort has also been made to accommodate the views of the european parliament and therefore a special chapter has been included in the report, which contains the outlook for future activities and gives indications for activities in the coming year and for possible responses to emerging crises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the development of the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy is undoubtedly one of the success stories of the european union. crisis management operations in the balkans, africa, asia and the middle east have helped to raise the profile of the european union at international level. it is a priority to continue this path in line with the european security strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the conclusions of the agreement on the next financial perspective, the european council 'calls on the budgetary authority to increase the budgetary appropriations for the common foreign and security policy for the period from 2007 onwards significantly in order to cover the actual foreseeable budgetary needs estimated on the basis of annual projections drawn up by the council, while still leaving a reasonable margin for unforeseen activities'. the agreement of the trilogue on an increase of the cfsp budget by 40 million for the current year 2006 to a total of 102.6 million is a step in the right direction. however, we have great challenges ahead of us. the european union's action in kosovo is likely to require substantial resources that cannot be covered by the current cfsp budget for 2006. work is under way to determine how to deal with such a situation. the presidency report on the esdp to the european council invited the austrian presidency to continue work to ensure adequate funding for civilian esdp missions from the cfsp budget. the presidency looks forward to working constructively with the european parliament on this issue. in line with the agreement reached at the trilogue on the 2006 budget, the presidency will shortly be providing the first information on this. the political and security committee's ambassador is expected to report on this in march this year. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the presidency looks forward to working constructively with the european parliament to achieve the objective of an increased and more efficient cfsp budget in the negotiations on the future interinstitutional agreement and in the 2007 budgetary procedure. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, while in 2004 and 2005 we saw the terrible scenario of the tsunami, i agree with mr solana that this year, particular political challenges lie ahead. i would like to start with ukraine and russia, because that brings me to a very important point. as you know, the commission – president barroso, commissioner piebalgs and i – have been working both in the background and at the forefront in order to facilitate the dialogue between ukraine and russia. the important thing is, firstly, that we – as well as they – have come to a solution. secondly, we also have learned a very important lesson from this, namely that the question of energy is of great importance and has to be placed much higher on our political agenda. the issue of energy covers energy security, the question of diversification and the ways of dealing with this question in the future. the commission will therefore prepare a communication on this matter, which will take all these issues into account. the second point i would like to make concerns the palestinian elections. i wish to pay tribute to mrs de keyser. we met in gaza two weeks ago under difficult circumstances, when the security situation was still unclear. we thought that hamas would have 30-40% of the votes. like everybody else, we were taken by surprise. however, let me say that the most important thing is that the elections were held freely, fairly and in relative security. this is already an achievement. it leads me to believe that election observation missions are becoming more and more important. we see it in sri lanka, palestine, gaza and afghanistan, to name just a few. in the future, we will see it in congo and in haiti. this is a very important tool that we will certainly want to use in favour of all our european friends in parliament and council and in favour of the european public. to come back to palestine, we had a very important council meeting on monday and a quartet meeting on monday evening. mr solana has already reported on the main thrust of the three important principles: there has to be a commitment to non-violence, the new palestinian government has to recognise the state of israel, and it also has to stand by its existing obligations, i.e. oslo and the roadmap. however, we are also faced with a challenge. the caretaker government could stay in place for two to three months. what do we do, in particular with regard to financial support? we in the commission have to find solutions. i have already said that we would try to release eur 10 million from our infrastructure facility – there is some money there to be disbursed. we also said we would help with the utilities, paying these directly to the israelis in order to help that government too. however, we also have to see what can be done with the money in our world bank trust fund. it was blocked and has not been disbursed because the benchmarks had not yet been met. a world bank mission will be going there and we will have to see what can be done. this means that we will try to work in a coherent way, together with the president, the council, the council secretariat and mr solana to see which are the best instruments to use in order to make the foreign policy coherent, speedy and effective as quickly as possible. whilst on the subject of foreign policy issues, the ukrainian elections are forthcoming. within the last hour i met boris tarasyuk. we know how important these elections will be. again, an election observation team from the oecd, perhaps with your support, will be important. we could also say that a lot was done in 2005, for example, on the market economy status, where we were working with the ukrainians. we could work on quite a number of issues that are important, such as visa facilitation and readmission. we hope that after free and fair elections we can offer them an enhanced agreement, perhaps a free trade agreement. that would give them an even better stance and approach towards us. all of that brings me to the more general questions. both mr brok and mr winkler, the president-in-office, have stressed the importance of the coherence between the different instruments at the disposal of the european union under the first and second pillars. i could not agree more. in our view, it is a very important task to ensure that all eu foreign policy instruments – development aid, diplomacy, trade policy, civilian and military crisis management, institution-building, humanitarian assistance – work as part of a coherent whole, like interlinked cogs in a well-oiled machine. after all, this is the rationale behind the commission being ‘fully associated’ with common foreign and security policy. it also reflects the direction in which the constitutional treaty was taking us. as mr brok’s report highlights, the security challenges we face span the fields covered by all three eu pillars. security is not only about defence and military deployment, it is also about civilian crisis management and the wise management of bilateral relationships – and we have a lot of those. it is also about public health: think of avian flu. it is about the environment: think of the kyoto protocol. it is about the fight against terrorism and organised crime. yesterday we had the afghanistan conference. it is also about working together for institution-building, or fighting the scourge of drugs. we have so many instruments that we can use and apply together. it is not only about energy supplies and prices, but also about the fight against poverty in the world, and our ability to integrate our immigrant populations. the european union is increasingly called upon to face these global responsibilities in the field of peace and security. we now have an impressive toolbox with which to do so. but a smart toolbox is no good if the tools do not work very closely together. this, therefore, has to be our aim. an effective crisis response requires instruments that complement one another. we need strong community instruments working alongside the instruments of the cfsp. it is a recipe that can work. for example, our contribution to the aceh peace process is a mix of cfsp and community instruments. the commission also financed, for instance, president ahtisaari’s peace negotiations using the rapid reaction mechanism. we have therefore tried to be flexible. the cfsp launched the aceh monitoring mission to monitor compliance with the peace agreement. at the same time, for instance, the commission and member states, working with the international community, put in place a package of long-term measures to support the peace process. another example is the border assistance mission in moldova and ukraine, where the commission is funding the deployment of mobile teams to provide advice and on-the-job training to moldovan and ukrainian border and customs officials. the long-term objective of facilitating a resolution of the transnistria conflict matches that of the eu’s special representative. the border assistance mission and the eu special representative therefore work closely together. our head of mission also acts as his senior political adviser, and one of his team is based at our mission’s premises. early results are highly positive. community assistance enhances the impact of the cfsp assistance, and vice versa. in neither case would the european union’s contribution have been comprehensive or meaningful without utilising both community and cfsp instruments. and most importantly, its impact on the ground – on peoples’ lives – would be significantly reduced. we also need to enhance the eu’s existing instruments in support of our security objectives. diplomacy requires carrots and sticks, whether we are talking about weapons of mass destruction or promoting stability and prosperity in our neighbourhood. access to the world’s biggest internal market or our sizeable assistance programmes is a considerable carrot. this complementary use of community and cfsp instruments needs to become the rule, not the exception. in 2006 the task for us all – parliament, the council and the commission – is to work to improve the coherence of our different pillars and policies. the issue will also be dealt with in the concept paper on the eu’s external project which president barroso announced at hampton court, now planned for the june european council. the commission will focus in particular on building up its crisis response capacities. within dg external relations a ‘crisis platform’ will improve both internal and external policy coordination and will also ensure a more efficient implementation of projects and operations. it will complement our existing instruments such as the civil protection mechanism, humanitarian assistance and the rapid reaction mechanism. we also want to build on our strategy for disaster alert and preparedness. under the new financial perspectives, the stability instrument will also help ensure continuity between short- and long-term interventions. our aim is to develop flexible and responsive solutions to crisis situations and thus be a better partner for the military component of crisis response. finally, we will also cooperate very closely with the two arms of the budgetary authority to ensure adequate resources for cfsp. the commission welcomes the substantial increase of the cfsp budget in 2006 in order to meet concrete new demands. we know there will be new demands. we also understood the conclusions of the european council with regard to the future financial perspectives. our common aim must be to have sufficient resources to cover all external relations priorities, bearing in mind the 20% cut in the commission’s proposal for heading 4. in the light of past experience, one particular issue will be to ensure sufficient flexibility to respond to unforeseen needs. i also hope there will be continued support for our stability instrument to enable us to make real progress in crisis response and coherence. this is the main thrust of how we would like to face 2006 and its political challenges. (applause)
it is not new to me, because for many years i have been in agreement with what my friend javier solana or my friend benita ferrero-waldner says. the only area where i disagree is on the idea that there are enough resources for the european union to be a global player, as javier solana says, as our partners or our citizens demand. it's not! it is not, either in terms of resources or in terms of organization, and we should think about using the instruments of the treaty of nice better now to be more effective in combining actions and internal organization. this lack of resources means that we have to set priorities. the support of the institutions is obviously essential in setting priorities, and here the support of the european parliament, consulted a priori and not merely informed a posteriori, is essential to reach consensus. there is therefore no major difference between what we hear from the council and the commission on the guidelines, but even the best cooks, the best chefs like bocuse or alain ducas, cannot make good omelets if they do not have enough eggs. in addition to the unity of the european institutions, it is now essential to ensure that strategic partnerships with the main partners can take place. firstly, a transatlantic partnership and, secondly, strategic partnerships with russia, china and, on the other hand, also with india, japan, brazil, indonesia and pakistan. the issues at stake in international terms, from terrorism to money laundering and drug trafficking, require it, but for that to happen, there must be a means of dispersing it across these various fronts. another issue, mr president, which was only mentioned lightly by the commissioner, is the issue of immigration. the ageing of the european union's population means that we will have to have a significant volume of immigration in the coming decades, from both the south and the east. and this requires not only active and proactive surveillance but also internal policies to ensure the effective reception and integration of these immigrants we need, as well as more effective control of the external borders, now that enlargement has also changed the borders that existed until recently. as for the most pressing issues in this debate, i will say that on both palestine and iran we are in agreement. it takes caution, prudence, but firmness of principle. under no circumstances can we waver from the principles which have always guided us, and in this matter since the early 1990s. but we also have to make it possible for there to be some movement on the other side. so the words "firm" and "cautious" are the ones that we happen to suggest in this debate about iran and the middle east. as regards kosovo, which has been a crucial element in the balkans for many years, we continue to insist that it is essential to maintain the territorial integrity of the country and, above all, to ensure respect for minorities. without respect for these two principles in kosovo, we shall have great difficulty in achieving any stability in that region. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security is certainly a technical issue. but much more than a technical issue, it is now a political issue because demand will continue to increase, supply will tend to stabilize in the coming years and therefore tension will increase and then i suggest that, just as the big countries do with their vital interests, we can conduct a careful and shared study of what our possible scenarios are and the strategies to attack them. if we don't, we're in for a few surprises. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have addressed this house on several occasions to give an account of the suffering in cuba, especially of those who do not give up their peaceful struggle for democracy and human rights. unfortunately, the sad reality calls for new complaints and new protests. bad news is a constant. at last year's plenary session we were able to see the extent of the intolerance of the castro regime. a group of women who were simply calling for the release of their husbands and children, political prisoners unjustly detained during the repression of march 2003, were prevented from going to the european parliament to receive the sakharov prize and with it our just tribute and the sign of respect of the peoples of europe. unfortunately, this decision and this attitude are not surprising. oswaldo payá, who also won the sakharov prize in 2002, has also been repeatedly prevented from travelling to europe to report in person and to discuss with us what is really happening in cuba. parliament has therefore kept an open invitation to you to come here as soon as you are allowed to do so. it is now necessary to extend this invitation to the ladies in white and to insist that they too may move freely and receive directly the expression of our appreciation and admiration. the possible award ceremony in havana is a good idea, but it should not satisfy us. we must insist on this but always seek more, not accepting any fleeting and semi-clandestine gesture, nor compromising with the arbitrariness of the dictatorship. oswaldo payá and the ladies in white must be given a public space to spread their message of peaceful struggle for freedom and justice and their life story and exemplary action in defence of the most basic human rights must be passed on to the peoples of europe, especially the young. i hope that this debate will make it clear that no one can say that we had any doubts about condemning a brutal dictatorship. i hope that the council will finally recognize its mistake and stop indulging in illusions which, as we have seen, result in more repression and more injustice. we will continue to call for more european firmness. let no one say that the european parliament hesitates to condemn a dictatorial regime unequivocally. from democrat to democrat, that's my appeal.
i believe that this is a debate that is well deserved in the context of the budgetary control procedures of the european union. the fundamental and decisive question is that of legislative clarification. i think that in the field of both the structural funds and the common agricultural policy, the regulations are clear in requiring member states to carry out an independent audit, both ex ante and ex post. these regulations remain unchanged since the beginning of the current financial programming framework. it seems to me that the main thing to do in this context is to ensure that the various member states comply with the regulations and that the european commission ensures that the regulations are properly applied. anything beyond this can only contribute to a lack of clarification of responsibilities. and that is why i would like to appeal to both institutions to clarify to us the state of compliance with community regulations regarding these ex ante and ex post audits so that we can act in a well-informed and informed manner. i would also like to make a final comment on this question of information on who receives community money. it is a claim which has been made for several years in a report which i have written. i am glad that commissioner kallas has joined this initiative. i hope that when you criticise politicians who do not exercise this transparency, you will bear in mind that this parliament called for it several years ago in a report i wrote.
the organizations representing workers in the electrical and electronic equipment industry in portugal complain that over the last three years more than 8,000 jobs have been eliminated by the multinationals operating in the sector, the most serious examples of the reduction in employment levels being lear, vishay, philips, yazaky saltano, alcoa fujikura and delphi. the situation will tend to worsen if the new threats of transfer orders and relocation of companies, which would lead to the unemployment of more than 6,000 workers, materialize. the process of genuine blackmail by multinationals against workers, particularly in terms of the devaluation of wages, the flexibility of working hours, the precariousness of working relationships, among other examples, imposes measures long advocated to stop this genuine race for maximum profit and maximum exploitation, with total disregard for its social consequences and, incomprehensibly, sometimes supported by community financial resources.
the lisbon strategy and its revision have been discussed here in the last two days. it is a matter of the utmost importance. the debate was attended by members of the national parliaments and undoubtedly drew attention to the situation in the various member states. it is essential that the commission and the council now take account not only of the reality in each of the member states, where unemployment continues to rise and high levels of poverty and social exclusion persist, so that the objectives announced six years ago at the lisbon summit can in fact be a reality, but also that a break with the neo-liberal policies of privatisation, liberalisation and the bolkenstein proposal for a directive is needed so that the improvement of economic and social conditions and greater economic and social cohesion in the european union are effectively taken into account.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, violence against women, ranging from human trafficking to prostitution and domestic and workplace violence, is arguably the most serious. domestic violence is the most common form of violence and affects millions of women in the european union. the rapporteur, who is very much appreciative of her work, has presented some figures here, although it is known that there are no studies at community level. it is imperative, commissioner, that the necessary measures be taken as soon as possible to make this phenomenon more visible, because it is unacceptable that every year more than 100,000 women and many children continue to die as victims of violence in the european union, another area that must be taken into account. i hope, therefore, that after this debate nothing will remain the same, that the reinforcement of the instruments that have already been promised here will be a fact, that the measures will be put into practice and that there will be political will to change this situation effectively.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission's report on equality between women and men in the european union takes stock of progress made in gender equality, but concludes that much remains to be done to end all forms of discrimination and to ensure that women share in public and private life on an equal footing with men. this requires ensuring a balance between family and working life, strengthening the status of women in the labour market, increasing childcare and other dependent care facilities and mainstreaming a gender perspective in immigration and integration policies. there are two major challenges that lie at the heart of a gender equality policy. one, to eliminate the gender pay gap. the other is the reconciliation of work and family life for both women and men. it is not acceptable that women should be the last to gain access to effective employment and the first to go unemployed, even though they are competent and dedicated professionals. the gender gap in employment is 15.8%, the percentage of parttime employment is on average 30.4% for women compared to 6.6% for men. women with young children have employment rates 13.6 percentage points lower than those of women without children, while men in the same situation have activity levels 10 percentage points higher than their childless counterparts. women do most of the housework and consequently have less time for paid work. in couples with children under six, men do less than 40% of the housework and between 25% and 35% of the childcare. the provision of adequate reception facilities remains a key instrument for enabling women to enter and remain in the labour market. women are needed in all areas of activity, especially in those traditionally considered to be male. it is proven that women are good managers and it is also recognized the creative and innovative capacity of women in city planning and construction. as a successful italian architect once said, men don't wear high heels, they don't ride in strollers, and so they don't plan well-sized tours, and they don't worry about architectural barriers. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall take the time available to share some concerns which merit consideration. it is the duty of the elected to read the signs so that they can prevent more serious situations. there has been a lot of talk in the last report about domestic violence and i would like to draw attention to youth violence and its increase. the images of recent events in france have spread around the world, leaving many wondering what drives hundreds of young people to use violence to draw attention to their problems. families, governments and societies as a whole need to look at each other and see where they have failed and why. but it's not just in france. everywhere there is a high degree of violence among young people. it's a very serious problem. what motivates youths between the ages of 13 and 17 to mistreat and even kill defenseless people as a form of entertainment? the facts reported are shocking. a group of youngsters robbed beggars and immigrants just for fun and recorded the whole thing with their cell phone cameras to show their friends at school. another group poured gasoline on a homeless woman and set her on fire. the woman, aged 50, was burned to death. our consciences cannot remain indifferent to such cruelty. but it is not enough to denounce, we must act! so that we do not come to regret it later and say as a father to one of these young people: i feel like a failure as a father! the experts point out the causes. the first of which is the absence of parents. there are thousands of young people in the european union who have been exposed to television, the internet and the street since they were children. parents spend more than 12 hours away from home, leaving their children unaccompanied, at the mercy of all kinds of negative influences, which leads to academic failure, early school leaving, laziness, drug use and marginalization. the second cause is idleness. without any occupation, without school and without work, young people become irresponsible. add to all this a permissive culture with few or no duties and all rights. strictness and rigor are not cultivated, work and merit are not valued. i would like the commission, the council and the european parliament to look into this matter and take appropriate action while there is still time. i hope that the next commission report will contain further progress on equality and i would also like to thank the support of my colleagues and the secretariat of the women's committee in the preparation of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ferber, on the quality of his report, which clarifies the social and economic importance of postal services in the face of unemployment prospects and signs of concentration. i think it is necessary to prevent liberalization from turning this public service into a purely economic service where only certain sectors of society of the most prosperous can exercise the simple right to send a letter, while the provision of the universal service is not guaranteed to the most disadvantaged and geographically isolated. i therefore suggest that the commission, in future analyses of the sector, prepare a modulation in relation to the costs of financing the universal service, taking account in particular of geographical and demographic constraints, in order to ensure that everyone has access to this service of general interest. as rapporteur, i believe that competitive postal services are fundamental to the european union, positively influencing various sectors of society such as trade, services and employment, through the modernisation of investments that can increase competitiveness, quality and efficiency, allowing lower prices for citizens and businesses and making a decisive contribution to the pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon strategy as a sector capable of generating jobs and growth.
in writing. the markov reports which have been voted on in this parliament today raise many questions for the countries on the geographical periphery of europe, such as portugal, spain and greece. i am aware of the efforts made throughout the negotiations, but i cannot help recalling that this matter should be resolved in such a way as to contribute, on the one hand, to improving road safety on european roads and, on the other, to creating all the economically equitable conditions for the development and growth of the transport sector in all the member states. i have concluded from the study of these texts that, despite the efforts of the various negotiators, we are still faced with proposals designed for the hauliers of central europe, whose routes are preferably short-distance. i cannot therefore, as a member elected by portugal, fail to vote against this compromise and to recall that the completion of the internal market implies taking account, in particular, of the states in which this activity is carried out mainly over long distances and thus reflecting the interests of all the member states without exception.
in writing. the pcp meps have long been involved, together with the organisations representing road and urban transport workers, in efforts to improve the labour rights of professional drivers so that the legal working hours and rest periods of drivers are respected and so that 'sacrosanct' competition, in its exploitative nature, does not put them at risk. as the trade unions point out, the regulation which has just been adopted, although it may improve working conditions in some countries, falls short of the existing collective labour regulations in portugal as regards the organisation of working time and the determination of minimum daily and weekly rest periods, as well as their monitoring. among other things, the regulation insists on the maintenance of two different concepts, 'driving time' and 'working time', penalising workers. just as the 'new' concepts of reduced rest periods make it more difficult to monitor compliance with minimum rest periods and encourage the overloading of daily and weekly working hours, we hope that the adoption of the regulation will not be used as a (false) pretext to justify further attacks on workers' rights. (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the proposal for a directive voted on today in plenary at first reading is generally in line with the process of simplifying internal market legislation advocated by the european commission. the proposal aims to consolidate existing legislation into a single act and to repeal (or deregulate) all existing packaging formats. certain sectors should, however, continue to be subject to the existing rules on the basis of full harmonisation. the proposal states that the mandatory ranges are justified in sectors where community legislation already provides for mandatory harmonised formats: this is the case for wine, spirits, soluble coffee, aerosols and white sugar. the european parliament also stated that the directive did not apply to pre-packaged bread, spreads and tea, products for which national standards on nominal quantities remained in force. all other sectors will be able to manufacture and consumers to buy products in a potentially infinite range of formats. it also considered that other basic products should continue to be covered by mandatory ranges, by way of derogation from liberalisation: coffee, butter, salt, rice, pasta and milk for consumption.
in writing. the european commission's objective of simplifying legislation deserves my support. one of the biggest obstacles to improving the economic efficiency of the member states of the european union is the excess of legislation, the regulatory confusion, what in english is properly called 'red tape'. this simplifying and liberalizing purpose, tempered by the care that has gone into the amendments introduced by the european parliament, partially removing some liberalization where it proved, in a lasting way, useless or even adverse to the interests of consumers, deserves my support here, expressed in my vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i am very much aware of the main points in it, both as regards the main causes of concern at international level and as regards the priorities of the european union in this area. although i do not fully agree with some of the points made, particularly in the institutional chapter, i believe that the worldview expressed here is correct. i also believe that the eu's international role depends more on its concrete action and our ability to understand what the common concerns are than on a discussion of theoretical models. in foreign policy reality is, as a rule, more powerful than any theoretical consideration. finally, i am pleased to note that the tone of agreement among the transatlantic partners is growing, which seems to me to be a fundamental step towards establishing a road map for peace, democracy and prosperity in the world.
in writing. it is important that parliament has expressed its concern about violence against women, a phenomenon which affects women of all ages, regardless of education, social status and background, although there are certain forms of violence which are deeply linked to poverty and social exclusion. we support the recommendation to member states to adopt a 'zero tolerance' attitude towards all forms of violence against women by advocating effective methods of prevention and repression, including measures to raise awareness and combat this problem. it should not be forgotten that violence by men against women is a phenomenon associated with the unequal distribution of power between the sexes and is also one of the reasons why this type of crime has not been sufficiently denounced and condemned. i welcome the adoption, albeit partial, of some of the proposals we have put forward, in particular the recognition that poverty and marginalisation are fundamental causes of the increase in trafficking in women and prostitution and that prostitution is not equated with work. i regret, however, that the proposal to create the means to develop effective programmes for the integration of women in prostitution, with a view to the gradual reduction and eventual abolition of prostitution, was not adopted.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report because we consider its content to be positive, although we know that it is just another declaration of intent by the european parliament which is contrary to the policies being put into practice and which are, in some cases, putting equal rights in question and aggravating discrimination, for example in the labour market. we welcome the adoption of a proposal calling on the commission to inform the european parliament of the progress made in the various member states, in particular with regard to the implementation of the beijing platform for action, including on reproductive and sexual health, and to disseminate statistical data on a regular basis for all member states. we also hope that the establishment of the european institute for gender equality will be given the necessary resources so that its functions can make a positive contribution to the promotion of equal rights and the dignification of the role of women in society.
with regard to the vote on the postal directive, i think it is particularly important to mention the need to maintain the guarantee of universal service. the completion of the internal market in postal services must take account not only of the important economic weight of this sector but also of its irreplaceable territorial and social dimension. the local services provided by the post offices of each member state have a not negligible social role which we must not renounce. we must therefore pay particular attention to the territorial and social dimension of postal networks when we are called upon to take decisions on the reform of this sector, bearing in mind the profound impact they may have when postal services are fully opened up to competition. i therefore consider it essential that the study envisaged should examine whether the provisions of the postal directive are sufficiently clear as regards the obligations linked to the universal service and that an appropriate framework should be established for the member states in this respect. we cannot jeopardize the fundamental objective of the directive, which is to ensure, at community level, the provision of minimum services of territorial and social proximity, guaranteeing access and quality at affordable prices.
in writing. the liberalization of postal services is part of the so-called 'lisbon strategy', which aims to open up the sector to private capital, with the ultimate aim of privatising this public service, starting with its most profitable parts and 'obviously' continuing to be supported by public funding (see for example the model applied to the management of hospitals). the struggle of workers in this sector, as well as of the population - see the numerous actions against the closure of post offices and to ensure postal distribution - has succeeded in delaying and even blocking this process in some of its most serious aspects. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the report does not criticise the current process of liberalisation, nor does it clearly point out its negative consequences, such as the closure of access points, the reduction in daily home distribution or the decline in employment levels. the report does not call into question the completion of the liberalisation of the sector in 2009, advocating openness and the primacy of competition in this sector. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the situation is very complex, but the palestinian election result should not be used to call into question once again the inalienable rights of the palestinian people to freedom, to an independent and sovereign state with east jerusalem as its capital, and to resist the occupation, or to call into question financial aid to the palestinian national authority to meet the most basic needs of the palestinian people, or to fuel us military escalation throughout the middle east region. solidarity with the heroic struggle of the palestinian people and with the forces of the palestinian national movement and the plo is as urgent as ever. finally, i would like to regret that the majority of the ep has rejected the amendments tabled by our group which, on the one hand, called on israel to respect the un resolutions and the recommendations of the international court of justice and, on the other, stressed as a central issue the end of the blockade of the peace process, the military occupation, the settlement development, the wall, the murders, the detentions, the refusal to release prisoners, the violence to which it is subjected and the dramatic deterioration of the living conditions of the palestinian people. (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. when democracy gives rise to an undesirable result the first temptation is to condemn the possibility of producing such an effect. it's understandable, but not very effective. what democracy must achieve is to exclude, by the efficiency of its action, adherence to these movements. what is far from certain is that there is democracy in palestine - regardless of the regularity of the electoral process. this is where our concern should be directed. democracy and the rule of law - which imply, among other things, peaceful coexistence with other states and the absence of any desire to destroy one's neighbours, apart from the obvious exclusion of terrorism - must be the touchstone of our policy towards this area of the world. whatever the present nature of the movement that won the palestinian elections, what is important to us is to demand that the future government of the palestinian authority respect the international agreements and the principles necessary for the peaceful coexistence of the two states, without which it will be impossible to help the palestinians. that risk, although the consequence of a voluntary act, would nevertheless be extremely serious.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because i disagree with its content, which takes no account at all of the situation in which cuba has been forced to live for many years under the american blockade and all the aggressions to which it has been subjected. it also omits any reference to the existence of the american base at guantanamo, where the bush administration holds prisoners without trial and practices the worst violations of human rights and the geneva convention itself. it also makes no reference to the five cuban citizens who remain imprisoned in the us and some of whom are prevented from being visited by their families, despite the fact that the us court in atlanta has already declared the trial that led to their detention void. this position of the majority of the european parliament is a significant feature of the policy of double standards, following the american policy, which maintains a permanent interference with peoples and governments who do not follow its guidelines and do not submit to it. it is also regrettable that there is no mention of the important contribution cuba is making to the social development of the peoples of latin america and africa, particularly through the training and education of young people from those countries in cuba and the sending of thousands of doctors and other professionals. (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. two hundred words will always be insufficient to dismantle yet another maneuver which is part of the eu's policy of isolation and discrimination against cuba, subserviently following the demands of the usa. the european union, which in its 1996 common position states that its aim is to change the political system in cuba, is interfering in an unacceptable way in a matter which is the sole responsibility of the cuban people. it is worth recalling that it was the majority of this same parliament which cynically criticised the us blockade of cuba in order to better demand the continuation of the sanctions imposed on cuba by the eu and which has not a word of solidarity with the five cuban patriots unjustly detained in the us for defending their country against terrorist acts. but as much as it pains the majority of the ep, cuba means hope and confidence in a life of dignity for millions of men and women. a country which, despite the blockade, achieved in 2005 the highest economic growth in the last 45 years. the country will assume the presidency and host the non-aligned summit in 2006. a country that sends tens of thousands of doctors, teachers, sports coaches - not armies to occupy, exploit and oppress. (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. cuba is proof that on the western side of the world not all walls of shame have fallen. between the absurd romanticism of some and the shameless pragmatism of others, there are those who insist on wanting to forget that in cuba there is no democracy, no law, no freedom, there is nothing that we consider essential and foundational in our societies. and there is no inexplicable romanticism or pragmatism that justifies changing the essential position: the constant condemnation of cuba and the demand for democratization, without which it is not possible to have close relations with this tyrannical government.
in writing. the implementation of the community budget, that is to say, ensuring that the political decision is actually implemented, is a matter of the utmost importance. unfortunately, the community budgetary procedure is becoming less transparent and more diffuse, and it is difficult to know where the money is going. the budgetary constraints imposed by the stability pact and the main net contributors have led to a policy of redistribution and cuts between budget lines and a number of amending budgets after the annual community budget has been adopted, since many priorities are underfunded. in other words, non-execution in certain areas is encouraged to finance others, regardless of the approved budget. in addition, there are policies and instruments, such as the compact, which contribute to non-implementation. in this respect, the commission and the council, with the constant reduction in payments as compared with commitments, cannot escape their responsibilities. as for national implementation, it must go hand in hand with the definition of national priorities on the spot, particularly at the level of the structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the joint resolution just voted points to the need to take new management measures for the mediterranean, always taking into account the principle that it is essential to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources in order to ensure the viability of fisheries, the maintenance of fleets and jobs, and the development of fishing communities. we therefore thought it necessary for the council to adopt its management regulation, on which the european parliament has already given its opinion. however, given that the current situation may lead to discrimination between fishermen operating in other waters, it is essential for us to ensure effective decentralisation and participation of the main stakeholders in management decisions, in particular fishermen and their representative organisations, taking into account that specific measures must be adapted to the specific realities of each fishery and region. we also believe that the management regulation should be accompanied by the necessary measures to compensate for the socioeconomic impacts resulting from it, with appropriate community funding, and that all measures should be based on scientific fisheries research.
i would like to congratulate the 30th anniversary of the proclamation of the sahrawi arab democratic republic, which will be marked on 27 february, and in this way to salute the just struggle of the sahrawi people for freedom and the right to self-determination and independence. i would stress that in its resolution of 27 october last, the european parliament declared its support for a just and lasting solution to the conflict in western sahara, based on the rule of law and international law in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the united nations security council. despite the great efforts, unilateral concessions and goodwill shown by the polisario front, the legitimate representative of the interests of the saharawi people, the process is still blocked by the intransigent attitude of the moroccan government - and not only - which refuses to recognize the fundamental rights of the saharawi people, and therefore immediate and effective initiatives are needed with the clear objective of completing the process of decolonisation of western sahara.
i support all the recommendations made by mr agnoletto in this report and, in particular, the inclusion of the reciprocity clause in all agreements with third countries. it is regrettable that the application of the human rights clause has so far been dependent on geopolitical and geoeconomic considerations which are not even of the union as a whole but which often depend on the narrow perspectives of some member states and some commission services. the striking example of the lack of consistency in the application of this clause is in ethiopia. notwithstanding the fact that the european parliament, in the light of the massacres and the very serious human rights violations that occurred after the elections, has systematically asked the commission and the council to open consultations under article 96. the council's silence and inaction on this matter is unacceptable. only the commission and one member state, the united kingdom, have taken minimal measures to suspend direct aid to the budget of the ethiopian government, but without clarifying on what terms and under what conditions and without this having any impact on the ethiopian government, thus sending a disastrous signal not only to ethiopians as a whole, but to all africans - since the oau is based in the capital of ethiopia - and to all member states and all countries with which the european union has relations.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr brejc on his excellent report. it is a balanced proposal which will facilitate traditional crossborder population flows while maintaining an adequate level of security at the external borders of the european union. we must prevent illegal immigration and the potential security threats posed by criminal activity. however, we must make it easier for border residents with legitimate reasons for such frequent crossings, i.e. so-called 'small border traffic', to cross the borders. our efforts to increase the security of the external borders, in particular with the approval of the second generation of the sis (schengen information system), have a positive political signal here. the borders should not be the enemy of trade, social and cultural exchange or regional cooperation. the people living in border areas must really be able to maintain their traditional contacts without facing excessive administrative barriers.
in writing. the text of council regulation (ec) no 1786/2003 contains a number of errors which should be corrected without delay. in this context and following an amendment to the combined nomenclature, cn codes 1214 90 91 and 1214 90 99 should be replaced by cn code 1214 90 90. the maximum guaranteed quantity of 4 855 900 tonnes of dried fodder should be replaced by 4 960 723 tonnes, which is the sum of the current national quantities. the method of calculating the reduction of aid in the event of an excess of this amount should also be re-drawn. the commission proposal responds to this need to recast council regulation (ec) no 1786/2003. the proposed amendment is therefore relevant and the favourable opinion of the committee on agriculture should be supported by the european parliament.
in writing. the ec-solomon islands partnership agreement is based on the mandate given by the council to the commission in june 2001 to negotiate bilateral tuna fisheries agreements with the acp states of the western central pacific, with a view to establishing a network of tuna fisheries agreements for the community fleet operating in that region. i fully support the position taken by the rapporteur in this document, stressing the importance of amendment no 5 which provides that at the first meeting of the joint committee the commission will inform the solomon islands authorities that shipowners' representatives will be present at future meetings of the joint committee. i am therefore in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. we abstained in this vote because, under pressure from the epp majority and the liberals, the commission and the council finally gave in and excluded solar radiation from the scope of the directive. this is all the more regrettable since optical radiation is known to be part of the electromagnetic spectrum, comprising mainly direct light, infrared and ultraviolet rays and lasers. solar radiation is composed of ultraviolet, infrared and direct light. the health effects of these radiations are well known, in particular because they cause, among other things, changes in the immune system, skin diseases, eye diseases, cancers and psychological disorders. many millions of workers in the eu are affected in their quality of life by exposure to solar radiation while working in agriculture, fishing, construction, salt works, quarries and open-air mines, as well as in various leisure activities, etc. so while the directive has introduced some significant improvements in artificial radiation - which is why we will not vote against it - its scope is restricted by not including solar radiation.
in writing. we are faced with a paradigmatic example of how the european decisionmaking process is often hopelessly slow. the proposal voted on today dates back to 1992, although it deals with a subject as fundamental as the protection of workers' health. it took 13 long years for the european parliament's thesis to be vindicated. the text now adopted deals only with workers' exposure to artificial radiation and excludes radiation of natural origin from the scope of the directive, on the grounds that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, this matter should be dealt with at national level, in accordance with national conditions and needs. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that it is not feasible for the eu to impose on employers in the 25 member states the assessment of the risks to the health and safety of workers exposed to the sun. i believe that this assessment should be made at national level, according to the reality of each country. this directive requires employers to put in place measures to prevent or reduce the risks to their workers from exposure to artificial radiation, in particular through measures relating to the choice of equipment, the design of the workplace and the duration of exposure.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, even though we do not support all the recommendations in particular, but we generally regard its objective as being correct. we believe that there must be a balance between the improvements that need to be made in animal welfare, the rights and interests of small and mediumsized farmers and the rights of consumers. we know that a system of assessment of the welfare of all the herds in the slaughterhouse is necessary, but we also know that there are costs to be taken into account and that small farms are generally not able to bear them. that is why we are advocating a longer period to allow for experimentation and subsequent adaptation to a system which does not exist in portugal. we also considered that in the present context some of the proposals which have been put forward in the plenary were excessive and we did not support them, given the negative consequences they could have for small producers without a trial period.
in writing. we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument for boosting economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic options, ensure the financing of public services and compensate companies that promote so-called 'services of general interest'. with this report, which is markedly neoliberal, the majority in parliament wants to restrict state aid to a 'last resort' solution, with the ideological preconception of reducing paper and state intervention in the economy in the name of the sacrosanct and beneficial 'market economy', and to avoid so-called 'distortions of competition' - which justifies our vote against. the rapporteur supports the european commission's reform proposals to make state aid more dependent on competition, encourage the reduction of state aid and restrict it to horizontal policies linked to the lisbon strategy, for example those related to innovation and r & d.
in writing. this report on the reduction of the general level of state aid to be granted by states aims to direct the granting of aid towards the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. this challenge requires a significant change both in the state aid rules established by the european union and in the member states' approach. the commission's regional aid rules are also being amended to take account of the principle of 'less state aid and more targeted aid'. i myself, as rapporteur, generally support this action by the european union. i was very pleased to note that the commission has stated in the reform of the new guidelines on regional state aid that the outermost regions of the european union will continue to be regarded as disadvantaged regions, irrespective of their gdp, for the purposes of the compatibility with the common market of the granting of aid to promote the economic development of regions where the standard of living is abnormally low, and that they will also be able to continue to benefit from the granting of operating aid.
in writing. state aid, presented as a solution to correct market failures, often tends, as the rapporteur rightly says, to generate injustice and promote inefficiencies. we are therefore supporting the rapporteur in this matter, as the commission is concerned. it would be illusory and wrong to wish for an immediate end to all state aid. but the fact that over the last few years such aid has been declining - largely because of the european union - is a stimulus to those who argue that an economy which fully respects the rules of the proper functioning of the market produces greater benefits for consumers, producers and workers. in short, state aid is a model which must tend to be replaced by fairer and more effective ways of promoting a real market.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mrs herczog, on her important report on the effects of globalisation on the internal market, which i support, particularly as regards the need to create a healthy environment to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to strengthen their position and access to innovation and financial instruments. i also believe that the creation of an internal market in services is a necessary means of increasing the competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. globalisation provides new opportunities through access to the world market, but is seen as a negative by many european citizens given the profound restructuring and relocations taking place in the european production fabric. the eu must meet these challenges without renouncing its historical and social values which are reflected in the fundamental characteristics of existing social protection systems. at the same time, the eu should encourage the competitiveness of european industry by developing a whole range of instruments referred to in the lisbon strategy. with growth of 1% or 2% there is no room for manoeuvre, and so economic reforms are becoming more and more urgent, especially those linked to the liberalisation of markets, in order to consolidate the internal market. finally, in terms of foreign policy, the eu should insist that the future world powers, such as china, india and brazil, develop their development processes on the basis of a balance between social and economic policies.
in writing. the interest and concerns expressed by the rapporteur in the human rights and democracy clause in the european union agreements deserve our attention. ten years after its first inclusion, it makes perfect sense to question the history of both its use and its efficiency. i understand that there is one aspect which i think should be clear from our analysis: the need to ascertain the impact of this provision. it is good that the european union has included this clause and has regarded it as a guiding principle in its foreign policy and cooperation. but if this becomes a mere phrase repeated in all agreements, with no real consequences, particularly in the event of a breach, it will obviously be worthless. the inconsistent expression of good intentions is a source of misunderstanding and failure in international politics.
in writing. the rapid liberalisation of world trade, characterised by lax labour and environmental standards, poses a considerable challenge to the competitiveness of the european economy. the eu cannot and should not compete with economies based on export subsidies, disregard for basic environmental and social standards and violation of human rights. european integration is based on solidarity, respect for human rights, environmental and social standards and sustainable development. the values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms are inherent in the european project. the eu has succeeded in imposing 'a human rights and democracy clause' in international agreements with third countries. but i cannot but regret that such a fundamental clause is still absent from the textile agreements. china, as is well known, has been systematically breaking the rules of the game since its accession to the wto in 2001. in this particular case, it would be more than justified for the eu to impose minimum social and environmental standards in successive trade agreements with this partner. in competition, you compete with the same rules for everyone.
in writing. this report does not raise any difficulties with the commission's proposal. on the contrary, it corroborates and supports all the ideas put forward. the maintenance of the shetland box and the solder box is a timely and balanced response to the review of the functioning and effectiveness of these boxes and the consultation carried out on this matter. the recommendations contained in this report will help to uphold the basic principles inherent in the new cfp: the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources while ensuring sustainable environmental and social economic conditions. i am therefore in favour of adopting this report.
we are opposed to this proposal for a directive which seeks to liberalize services. we must not forget that this is one of the most important instruments of the so-called lisbon strategy, its central nucleus, to intensify the liberalization and privatization of public services, to contribute to social dumping and competition between workers for the benefit of economic and financial groups only. the pressure of public opinion, social movements and workers' struggles, including today's demonstration, are forcing some tweaks to its original wording, but the essential objective remains. so, its rejection is essential, to prevent what was prevented from entering through the door from entering through the window. legal certainty and the defence of social, labour, environmental and consumer rights require that it be rejected, and that is what we are voting for.
the question period is now over (b6-0002/2006). i would like to draw the attention of the house to the new procedure under rule 109 of the rules of procedure, which was already applied at the january partsession. i therefore ask for the cooperation of the council and the members so that as many questions as possible can be discussed and answered. the new organization has introduced two parts to question time. the first part will be answered by mr winckler, the austrian representative in the general affairs council, and the second by the responsible minister, depending on the subject. the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr papadimoulis (h-0006/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: accession negotiations with serbia and montenegro the thessaloniki european council (20 june 2003) decided to open the prospect of accession to all the countries of the western balkans. however, serbia and montenegro were excluded from the european negotiations and it was not until 10 october 2005 that the commissioner responsible for enlargement, olli rhen, opened negotiations for a stability and association agreement between the european union and serbia and montenegro. can the council state the reason for this delay? will the exact same criteria as those applied to croatia be applied to serbia and montenegro? does the council consider that serbia's position in the negotiations on the final status of kosovo will influence the negotiations on the stability and association agreement?
since they concern the same subject, the following questions will be asked together and answered by the council representative, mr martin bartenstein. question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-1192/05) subject: energy dependence in the eu how does the council assess the extreme energy dependence of the eu on russia and the gulf countries and what possibilities does it see for reducing this dependence by systematically promoting renewable raw materials and alternative energies? question no 7 by gay mitchell (h-0027/06) subject: the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the european union subject: safety of fuels how concerned has the council been about the safety of europe's fuels?
since the author is not present, question no 8 is inadmissible. question no 9 by othmar karas (h-0061/06) subject: complementary occupational pension schemes does the austrian presidency intend to take up the commission proposal for a directive on the portability of supplementary occupational pensions, and what will be its approach?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a decisive debate for the future of europe, both in the economic and social fields, with political consequences. the compromise solution between the main parliamentary groups seems to me to be balanced. it is important to exclude the application of the country of origin principle, as is the exclusion of temporary work in the health and other social fields, the services of general interest and the exclusion of lotteries. it is also essential that the criteria for economic services of general interest which are either completely excluded or included with the intervention of each member state are made very clear. as it is in the compromise, i naturally stress the importance of not interfering with the directive on the posting of workers. ladies and gentlemen, if progress is to be made towards the completion of the internal market in services, it is equally important to ensure conditions of fair competition in the various member states. breaking down bureaucratic or technically unjustifiable barriers but not facilitating social imbalances, in particular by not distorting labour markets or labour relations. this process of building the internal market in services, although very important for the economic development of europe, must respect the standards which guarantee european social cohesion. and if that was not the case with the initial version of the directive, we in the european parliament can now adopt a text which will contribute in a balanced and clear-cut way to the creation of a genuine european market in services, while at the same time ensuring european social cohesion. that takes both lucidity and courage.
the directive establishing the internal market in services was proposed by the european commission, chaired by the social democrat romano prodi, and maintained by the current commission, led by mr barroso. this is a proposal which plays a central role in the context of the offensive of capitalism in the european union. a proposal tailored to the interests of the large multinationals, which would obtain better conditions for exploiting workers and dominating new economic sectors. it advocates the total liberalization of services, including public services, with profound negative consequences for workers and for the sovereignty of states. if adopted, this proposal would act as a real 'trojan horse' against wages, collective labour agreements and labour rights and against the ability of a state to effectively protect public services and, in general, how services are provided. it is not possible to 'reform' this proposal, as the pse and the ppe want to do, by trying to safeguard the essential and negative elements of the directive while at the same time saving face. as the workers have demanded and we have advocated from the outset, it is necessary to reject it.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i defend freedom of expression as a european and universal value and i condemn violence as an expression of indignation against anyone, including embassies and european interests. i voted in favour because the condemnation of incitement to religious hatred and the dissemination of racist and xenophobic attitudes is contained in the second paragraph of the resolution. however, i think that this resolution as a whole is unbalanced, because it focuses on freedom of expression and not on the islamophobic intention behind the cartoons published by a racist and xenophobic far-right newspaper in denmark. the defence of freedom of expression and the most fundamental human rights requires that this parliament explicitly distance itself from islamophobia and condemn any attempts to conflate the islamic religion and its followers as a whole with terrorism. in voting in favour of this resolution i also wanted to express my solidarity with the danish people, but i do not support the dismissive and arrogant attitude of the government of prime minister andreas fogh rassmussen, which i consider to be partly responsible for the exploitation of this incident by the extremist reactionary forces which, both in the west and in the islamic world, are inciting the 'clash of civilizations'.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the european parliament has been able to take part in the debate on the report. it is an ignorant and arrogant regime, as evidenced by the statements of its president on the holocaust. not even le pen would do better. it is still a reactionary and fundamentalist regime, which violates human rights on a daily basis. and finally, it is a dangerous and adventurous regime. he's betting his survival on enriching uranium that puts him on the doorstep of the club of countries with nuclear weapons. we agree: europe must do everything but war to prevent tehran from acquiring nuclear weapons. that is why we do not agree with the proposed resolution, particularly paragraph 7. the passage of the iranian issue to the un security council is a wrong and irresponsible step as it brings the world closer to a new preventive war, now in the form of surgical military intervention. europe has an alternative to escalation: it can and must turn what is today a problem into an extraordinary opportunity for humanity and the iranian people. i remind you and read article 6 of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty: each of the parties to the treaty assumes responsibility for the continuation of negotiations for an end to the nuclear arms race and for a treaty aiming at total and complete disarmament under international control. it is here, not in war, that we must begin. the union states which have signed the treaty have in their hands an opportunity to reverse the hidden logic of arms in the negotiations with iran. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but a spectator of the world.
mr president, despite international efforts it is increasingly clear that either iran is raising its bargain, or it is not sincerely interested in stopping the process of enriching uranium and its subsequent military use. iran is now a state that does not respect the rules of the international community, that does not appear to intend to respect them, and that presents itself as a threat to regional and world security. today's iran is a potential danger. tomorrow's iran with nuclear weapons is a certain danger. in this context, citizens expect the european union to be a guarantee of their security and a factor of stability in the world. the answer to the citizens' aspirations must be given, first and foremost, by those who have taken on the task of leading the negotiations with iran in the face of the risk, certainly calculated, that iran will not want to comply with the legitimate demands of the international community. mr president, simply referring the matter back to the united nations and the security council is not, in my view, sufficient. in our view, the first task of the european union must be to help keep the international community united and firm in the face of the threat posed by iran, both to the region and to the world. indeed, we cannot allow the difficulties and the politically sensitive moment we face to generate divisions when our own global security is at stake. iran must know that the diplomatic path is not closed, but that it is up to it to restore confidence through concrete, verifiable acts of total suspension of its uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities. it must also abandon provocative discourse on israel and the holocaust and commit itself to a policy of respect for human rights and opposition acceptable to the international community. but what are the right and effective measures to achieve these objectives? this is the fundamental question we must answer. mr president, the relevance and international role of the european union depend increasingly and above all on its action. we hope that this moment, which is a particularly grave moment, will enable the european union to demonstrate that it is in a position to play its role on a world scale, a role which has been called for many times in this parliament. we want you to succeed.
in writing. the title of this resolution, which was approved by a majority of meps, is clear as to its real purpose: to support the recent escalation and worsening of the situation with regard to iran's nuclear programme. the european parliament has voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, which call for a peaceful political settlement of the dispute over iran's nuclear programmes and reaffirm its opposition to any military action or threat of use of force, stressing that an escalation of the dispute would lead to a deepening of the crisis in the region. the same applies to other amendments calling on 'all countries to refrain from any threat to the territorial integrity of iran and to distance themselves unequivocally from any pre-emptive attack'. the majority of meps, instead of supporting measures that would promote the de-escalation of international relations, support the un security council monitoring the situation. this is a longstanding demand of the united states, which is seeking to use this measure to isolate iran internationally and to pseudo-legitimize new interventions and dangerous military adventures in order to impose its dominance in the region and defend its economic interests. that is why we are voting against it.
the report by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the management of risks and crises in the agricultural sector [2005/2053 (ini) ] (a6-0014/2006) follows.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that agriculture is subject to serious risks and crises, which have actually intensified in recent years, both for climatic reasons and natural disasters such as floods, droughts and fires, and also because of epizootic diseases and their international spread. although the commission presents various options for managing risks and crises, its proposals do not take account of the difficult situation facing small and mediumsized farmers and family farming today, who are threatened by an unfair common agricultural policy and by the negotiations within the world trade organisation, which are contributing to the destruction of thousands of small farms, the strangulation of the rural world and the desertification of vast areas of the interior of countries such as portugal, which is also reflected in the increase in forest fires. in its proposal, the european commission, in addition to insisting on the co-financing of natural disaster insurance premiums paid by farmers, proposes funding on the basis of only 1% of the modulation, which is clearly insufficient. what is needed is, as we have proposed, the creation of a public insurance funded by the european union so that there are better framework conditions for risk management and crisis prevention, which is fundamental for family farming. the commission's proposals do not sufficiently take account of the risks and possibilities of crisis, as the rapporteur points out, and it is therefore essential that the commission should make a more precise assessment of the instruments and measures which are likely to prevent price falls, market crises and loss of income for farmers and which are capable of ensuring the continuation of their activity. i note the willingness expressed here by the commissioner to take account of the positions taken in this debate, and i look forward to seeing them translated into practice in the work that will follow, both in relation to the management of risks and crises in agriculture and in the creation of a safety net with regard to the forthcoming reforms of the common market organisations, particularly for wine, fruit and vegetables. however, it should also provide for the possibility of granting aid for the purchase of fuel by farmers when fuel prices are excessively high.
mr president, commissioner, the last few years, and the last year in particular, have been a vivid illustration of the variety of risks and crises facing european farmers. in 2005, while thousands of hectares of forest were destroyed by fire, with loss of human life, and drought was severely affecting several areas of southern europe, several countries in central europe were hit hard by devastating floods. in either case, of equivalent historically unprecedented dimensions. on the other hand, both animal diseases and the inevitable liberalization of trade expose farmers in particular to new risks and uncertainties. the commission's initiative which is the basis of this report is therefore welcome. it is, however, far behind the real needs. i therefore support the rapporteur in most of his comments and suggestions, particularly as regards agricultural insurance and mutual funds, but i regret the timidity - and i use this term to be rather delicate - of his approach to covering income crises, especially when some of our most important commercial competitors have security devices to deal with them. i also see this report as an important part of the broader approach that the subject deserves, particularly in the debate that is taking place on the solidarity fund, as well as the forestry strategy that we will certainly be discussing, and the own-initiative reports on natural disasters that are being drawn up by various committees of this parliament. i hope that parliament will adopt coherent positions on this set of instruments. this will be the best contribution that can be made to the union's urgent need to provide itself with the appropriate instruments for protecting its farmers, first of all to prevent crises and risks from occurring, but also to remedy them if they cannot be avoided.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
the report by mr heinz kindermann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the implementation of the european union forestry strategy [2005/2054 (ini) ] (a6-0015/2006) is reproduced below.
on behalf of the pse group. commissioner, we all know that it is commonplace to talk about the economic, social and environmental importance of european forests. however, it is never too much to remember that they occupy 35% of the territory, represent almost 3.5 jobs, 15 million owners and the value of production of more than 350 billion euros. these are therefore indicators which illustrate the importance of the subject and the importance which the community institutions must attach to it, especially at a time when various factors, whether arising from natural causes or human action, are threatening the forest, in a particularly complex international context which calls for a new and urgent approach from the european union to the energy question, where biomass can and must play a relevant role, as the commission and the austrian presidency have recognized in giving priority to this issue. i therefore welcome the commission's communication on the implementation of the strategy and welcome the report by mr kindermann, with whom i largely identify, which is an excellent contribution by parliament to the formulation of the european forestry strategy, as well as some amendments which i think can improve and complete the report. the recognition of the vulnerabilities of the forest, which the report identifies well, is a good contribution to the debate we are having at the moment on natural disasters and therefore the integrated approach to this very important subject, which i hope the commission will welcome and, like us, see the problem as a whole, so that the contributions of these various instruments now on the political agenda can help to improve the situation of european forests.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the unquestionable need for forest maintenance and the preservation of its multifunctional character require effective management and support measures that take into account the different forests and their specific problems. i do not think it is necessary to insist on a uniform interpretation of the concept of forest when we know that there are already internationally agreed and negotiated definitions which are the basis for the production of periodic reports and assessments of the state of forests in europe and the world. while we are certainly in favour of a european union action plan for sustainable forest management, we have not followed up on several of the proposals in the report now under discussion. we regret that several of the proposals we made in the committee on agriculture to draw attention to the situation of forests in the southern european countries, which are faced annually with fires, sometimes accompanied by drought, as happened in portugal last year, where some 300 000 hectares of forest were burned at very high cost and with serious consequences for forests, biodiversity, farmers and the populations of vast areas. we therefore insist on the need for a real medium- and long-term forest fire prevention strategy and for a specific regulation and a specific budget line in the community budget to protect forests against fires, taking into account resolutions already adopted by the european parliament and the experience of the specific community regulation that already existed and which, unfortunately, has been abolished by the commission. we also believe that the next action plan should cover seven years to correspond to the period of the next financial perspective and include a programme for the protection of the horse breed which recognises its multi-functionality and its contribution to livestock rearing and cork production, which is of fundamental importance for the development of large areas in the southern countries. we hope that the executive committee will take account of these proposals, which we are once again advocating here and which the report does not contain, so that the action plan can be a positive instrument in the defence and promotion of the various forests, including those in the southern countries with climatic conditions conducive to forest fires.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european commission report we are examining here today sets out the main conclusions of the analysis of the implementation of the european forestry strategy and the emerging problems affecting the forestry sector, and outlines possible actions for the future. experience has shown that the forestry sector can contribute to the lisbon strategy objectives of sustainable economic growth and competitiveness and also to the gothenburg objectives of safeguarding the quantity and quality of europe's natural resources. the commission proposes the development of a european action plan for forest management which could provide a coherent framework for the implementation of forestry measures and thus allow the many potential resources of this sector in europe to be further developed. however, the treaty establishing the european union does not provide a legal basis for a common forestry policy and the effects of the community's sectoral forestry policies, as well as the lisbon and gothenburg strategies, are still not sufficiently effective in combating forest degradation. i would remind you of the tragedy of the forest fires and drought that have plagued southern europe in recent years, of which portugal is unfortunately a particular example. i understand that this situation may not be a remote problem for many of you, but i would like to draw your attention to the great difficulties facing the forestry sector in this southern part of europe and all the citizens who depend on it. this problem, given its seriousness, must be tackled as a matter of priority and a serious and thorough approach must be taken. a common forestry policy is more important than ever. i therefore believe that the member states should start to reflect in depth on the environmental, social and economic advantages of introducing a common policy in the context of the future constitution. that is why i ask for support for amendments nos 7, 8 and 9, which have been signed by myself and by my colleague mr herranz garcia, among others.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the report by mrs mairead mcguinness, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council decision on community strategic guidelines for rural development (programming period 2007-2013) (com (2005) 0304 - c6-0349/2005 - 2005/0129 (cns)) (a6-0023/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
in writing. the former bolkenstein directive was radically transformed and made clear progress in the construction of an internal market for services. we therefore voted in favour of this proposal, in its revised form, because we believe that it guarantees a balanced progress towards the creation of a european internal market in services and that the exclusion of services of general interest, lotteries and essential health areas will lead to a better balance in the directive. in its present formulation, the directive is positive for the portuguese economy, in particular by no longer applying the principle of the country of origin. the opening up of the european services market will create many jobs. with this text the so-called "social dumping" will be definitively removed. the directive reduces unjustifiable bureaucratic barriers in various member states by making the provision of services subject to the rules of the country in which the service is provided. the exclusion of temporary work and non-interference with the posting of workers directive are also important to ensure social balance and cohesion. all these arguments helped to consolidate our vote.
in writing. we regret that our proposal to reject the bolkestein directive, the central point of the lisbon strategy and the cornerstone of neoliberalism in the service sector, which is designed to serve the interests of the economic and financial groups in the european union, has not been adopted, as is shown by the positions of their representative organisations, in particular unice. it is true that the struggles of the workers and the people have forced some concessions and adjustments, which, when they were positive, had our support, but the regrettable agreement of the pse with the ppe has frustrated the expectations of all those who hoped that the european parliament would be able to reject such a serious proposal for the workers and the peoples of the various member states. we therefore voted against the overall proposal and many of its sub-aspects, which we regarded as negative, in particular the following aspects: - the liberalization of services in general, including in sensitive areas of public services and sectors such as water services, social housing, energy services, postal services, research, education and training, cultural services and security services, where our proposals to remove them from the scope of the directive were rejected; - the fragility of the situation for the recruitment of workers, including self-employed workers; - the worsening of the difficulties in defending the rights of consumers, users of public services and the environment.
in writing. the majority of the ep approved the compromise of the pse/epp, which sought to save essential aspects of the proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of services, rather than reject it, as had been proposed by us. as a result of the firm denunciation of the most negative aspects of this proposal and the struggle of workers to reject the directive, the majority of the european parliament excluded some services from its scope by referring them to a later decision and concealed, in an exercise of legal juggling, the rule of application of the law of the country of origin of the service provider. however, while not all of the ambitious goals of the large economic and financial groups have been achieved, a step forward has been made in the deepening of competition in numerous service sectors, including public services, which will have negative consequences for workers' rights and the services provided to the population. the same is true of further limitations on the sovereignty of states, by strengthening the role of the european court of justice. but the directive on the liberalization of services has not yet been adopted. the council, on which the portuguese government is seated, will have to assume its responsibilities. we will continue to fight for the rejection of this proposal for a directive, which, if adopted, will call into question the interests of workers and the country.
in writing. the decision that a service provider is free to offer its services in any other member state without unusual barriers being imposed on it is in the interests of consumers, workers, service providers and the interests of europe. the services market has the greatest potential for growth and development in the european economy, and our aim is to promote reforms that stimulate the economy by defending the rights of workers, consumers and entrepreneurs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which are traditionally more vulnerable to administrative, political and economic barriers. i have approved this report because it is in favour of genuine freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services in the eu. if it is possible to acquire goods and services freely in another member state, there is no justification for preventing the service provider from moving, provided that a set of principles, which are of a public and social nature, are respected, and that these principles are safeguarded in the adopted version. despite the commitment - necessary in a political group with the responsibilities of the epp - the result is balanced and, above all, a clear sign that the majority of the european parliament wants an economy with more jobs, more efficient, fair and competitive.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the liberalization of services is the culmination of an intention that has been in place for nearly 50 years, since it is one of the european union's overriding aims that freedom of services is at the heart of the european project. the solution adopted is a victory for european democracy and resolves a stalemate which until recently was thought to be insurmountable. without this understanding, we would be in a situation where in the coming years nobody would dare to intervene in this matter, with the consequent damage to economic growth and job creation. the fact that a whole series of administrative and bureaucratic barriers to the free movement of persons and service-providing enterprises have been removed makes the adoption of this directive worthwhile. the small and mediumsized enterprises will therefore be the main beneficiaries, since the frustration they felt when they wanted to operate in a neighbouring country will be over. often they had to be resident in the country of destination, or have an open office or a branch, or have previously registered with any administrative authority, or had to prove that they had mastered the language of that country, etc. now, with this directive, all that ends.
in writing. we have voted in favour of this report because we consider its content to be generally positive, although we disagree with some of the particular aspects. however, as a whole, it seeks to respond to problems felt in the rural world, in particular by pointing out that rural areas are disadvantaged and require particular attention, emphasising the great diversity of situations and the specificities prevailing in each member state. thus, special attention is needed in remote rural areas, in mountainous and disadvantaged areas, with problems of depopulation and decline, but also in peri-urban areas, which are subject to increasing pressures from urban centres. it also stresses the inclusion of proposals to encourage existing initiatives at local level, such as farmers' markets and local supply programmes for quality food products, and the need for effective support for young farmers to ensure a generational renewal. specific treatment should be given to the outermost regions, where agricultural holdings are characterised by isolation, small size and low production diversification, and are sometimes affected by severe climatic conditions.
in writing. the community strategic guidelines for rural development will serve as the basis for future national rural development programmes, harmonising the objectives and measures to be implemented in this important european sector. it is of the utmost importance that strategies are fully and rigorously defined to promote the development of european rural areas, the improvement of the living conditions of their populations and the improvement of the rural environment. i think the european commission's proposal is very positive because it presents a very diverse range of objectives and measures, as does the report by mrs mcguinness, which improves the strategic guidelines in several specific areas such as the protection of rural culture and the preservation of the rural landscape.
in writing. under the new rural development regulation, it is planned to adopt community strategic guidelines for the next financial period 2007-13. the importance of rural development policy should be stressed, given that rural areas account for 90% of the eu's territory and are home to 50% of its population. these strategic guidelines aim to define the areas where community funding can create the greatest added value at eu level, translate the eu's main priorities into rural development, ensure coherence of programming with other eu policies and support the implementation of the new cap and the necessary restructuring in the new and old member states. like the rapporteur, i support this proposal for a decision which responds to the need to give the member states clearer guidance on the application of the regulation. however, special emphasis should still be placed on the need to modernise the agricultural and forestry sectors and to encourage young farmers and their families to remain in rural areas.
in writing. despite the inclusion in this resolution of aspects which raise serious questions for us, we have supported the resolution in its most positive sense. however, it is not with palliative measures of limited and more than doubtful reach that the millennium development goals will be met: eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and creating a partnership for development. the achievement of these just and urgent objectives requires a profound change in the current policies promoted by the major capitalist powers and the world forums they dominate, such as the world bank or the imf. it demands an end to capitalist competition, trade liberalisation, privatisation, the reduction of workers' rights and wages, the control of state policies by the big economic and financial groups and the concentration of wealth in the hands of the few at the expense of the exploitation and oppression of the people. the achievement of these aims requires, after all, the overcoming of the system - capitalism - which engenders exploitation, inequality, poverty, violence and oppression.
in writing. we note with deep concern the alignment of the majority of the european parliament on the increase in international tension and the concealment of the deeply provocative character of the publication of the cartoons, as the dangerous development of events has shown. it is unacceptable to try to justify the escalation of us intervention in the middle east by creating a false environment of clash of civilizations. how worrying it is to see the major powers of the eu converging on the us ambitions for this region. it should be stressed that it is germany, france and the united kingdom which are taking the initiative in trying to block a negotiated solution by the international atomic energy agency on iran, a goal long sought by the united states. contrary to what some would have you believe, the threat to peace, the war, the aggression and the occupation have been carried out by the us and its allies, namely israel. these are the ones who are militarily occupying afghanistan, iraq or palestine. as is the us which has numerous bases and thousands of troops stationed in the region. action is therefore urgently needed to break the current escalation of incitement to violence and to promote the de-escalation of international relations and the defence of peace.
in writing. the society we are proud to live in has made freedoms its essence. our first definition is to be free and therefore responsible. in these recent events, what was at issue was not the exercise of freedom of expression, but an unacceptable reaction on the part of those who claimed to be offended. if all indignation is legitimate, not all means of expressing it are. it is against these excesses, against the attacks on the member states of the european union, that we must first speak out. we reject violence, we stand in solidarity with denmark and the other member states. having said that, it is necessary to add that we know very well that these demonstrations were orchestrated, but we also know that their impact on relations between the west and the islamic world was great. apart from our freedoms, including freedom of expression, all displays of hatred, all promotion of racism and xenophobia are reprehensible and all freedom must be exercised responsibly, at this time or any other. we will not relent in defending our right to be free, but we will not seek confrontation, on the contrary, we will avoid it because we know that the peace and security of the world depend, in large measure, on our sense of responsibility.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, which call for the immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops from bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia-herzegovina is currently a protectorate occupied by some 7000 nato/eu military personnel and under the control and domination of a un/eu high representative with such overbearing and undemocratic powers that the european parliament itself 'invites' him to use them with 'moderation'. it is in this context that the majority of the european parliament, in an act of unacceptable interference and disregard for the sovereign will of the peoples of this country, calls for the council and the european commission to interfere in the current process of constitutional reform and to initiate a negotiating process aimed at the integration of this country into the eu. the commission has therefore submitted a statement of objections, which calls for 'the reform and reduction of the rigidity of the wage-setting system, especially in the public sector, the acceleration of the privatisation process, the continuation of reforms and the liberalisation of the energy sector or the continuation of restructuring and the liberalisation of the railway sector', which is unacceptable.
in writing. can the question be asked why belarus is the country with the most european parliament resolutions condemning its behaviour? some will say that it is because of human rights situations. but even if we accept that this is the case, why does the european parliament not adopt resolutions with the same enthusiasm in relation to other countries in situations which could be considered similar or even more serious? is it because belarus has so far resisted the unacceptable demands and interference of the united states and the major powers of the european union? is it because, unlike most of the countries in the region, it has halted and reversed privatisations of key sectors of its economy, focusing on agriculture and national production, improving the living conditions of the population, and being the only country in the post-soviet space to re-establish its 1990 gdp? is it because belarus is committed to creating a union of states with equal rights with russia, with which it has a collective defence agreement? is it because we are faced with yet another double standard, in line with the strategic interests and ambitions of economic dominance of the united states and its allies in europe?
on behalf of the pse group. other i would like to begin by congratulating mr letta on the excellent work he has done, which is reflected in the report we are now considering, and i would like to thank commissioner almunia for the very precise clarifications he has given to this debate, which will certainly help to find a solution before the vote, which will take place not in this part-session but in the next. much has been said about the nature and origin of this report. the origin of this is the proposal for a regulation on community statistics on the status and activities of foreign enterprises in relation to groups. it has already been said here, and was also reinforced by mr purvis, that these statistics are absolutely indispensable to help national and community policy-makers in the development of appropriate policies for businesses by assessing the progress being made in a context of economic globalisation affecting the business world. although voluntary collection of data on the structure and activities of foreign enterprises, including internal statistics, is functioning in virtually all member states, which proves the possibility of a concerted procedure, the same is no longer true for external statistics, which only occurs in a limited number of member states. the real value that operators can derive from this information depends on its readiness and its availability and consistency, as well as on the harmonisation of data collection, and it is therefore necessary to establish a common framework quickly. i agree with commissioner almunia that it is important that we find an agreement at first reading, although i also agree with mr purvis that it will not be a drama if we do not reach an agreement at first reading. although there is a broad basis of understanding, as all the speakers have said, which is due to the very nature of the directive and its urgency and necessity, as well as the fact that it is timely at this time, there are also aspects which we normally translate into the affirmation of the principle of comitology, as an alternative to the codecision procedure, but which in practice translate into the role which should be played by the european parliament in relation to all these procedures and in particular to procedures of a financial nature. this is what you have to be sure of. i was somewhat reassured by the commissioner's words when he announced that the comitology procedure itself would be amended to take account of the importance of parliament in decision-making and monitoring of these procedures. however, it seems to me that this is not yet fully assured. i therefore repeat that if it is necessary not to reach an agreement at first reading, i do not think that this is of any exceptional gravity, since the most important thing is to find a common, well-founded and reasoned basis for the effective application of the regulation in question. it has also been mentioned, and my group fully supports the need for improvements. there will be no difficulty in this respect with either the council or the commission, either in relation to pilot studies or regulatory periods or the deadlines set for obtaining this kind of information. i believe that anything to make pilot studies more compulsory and draw conclusions from them of a compulsory nature and also to reduce the periods granted for derogations and the deadlines for establishing definitive data seems to me to be fundamental. we support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect, which seem to be important and significant since they focus precisely on these areas. my group is fully prepared to use the remaining time before the final vote to reach an agreement in the bilateral contacts so that this report can be adopted at first reading. however, i repeat that if this is not possible, i do not think that there is any insurmountable difficulty. we also hope that there will be an openness in the council, which at certain stages of this process seemed to us too closed, in line, moreover, with the openness i could see in the words of commissioner almunia, which i found extremely cooperative and meaningful. i would like to end by once again congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work. this was a very interesting debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. since the report was adopted unanimously, i am sure that we will find a good solution to this problem together with the council and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions i could raise in connection with this report. many of them have already been dealt with, so i will limit myself to two. i would remind you that on 12 april 2005 the european parliament adopted an important resolution defining and characterising the role of the european union in achieving the millennium development goals. this commitment of the european union to eradicating poverty has been systematically reiterated, which, in addition to being coherent, gives strength and substance to its policy options in favour of world development. it is in this context that we should also examine mr hamon's own-initiative report, which is a remarkable document for the information it provides and the solutions it points to for the necessary and future strategic reform of the international monetary fund. the concerns and commitments of the international community with regard to development objectives must also be imputable, at least at the instrumental level, to the international monetary fund, and the full use of its capacities for these objectives requires a real transformation of the fund's action towards debtor countries. whatever judgments we make about the fund's intervention since its creation in 1944, it is indisputable that the institution is today faced with a crisis of legitimacy, both as regards the nature and scope of its structural adjustment policy recommendations and as regards the distribution of votes and the marginal distribution of emerging and developing countries. and that brings me to the second question, which is the question of the european dimension. i'm very ambitious on this one. while i recognize the difficulties that have been pointed out here in pointing out immediately to a single representation and a single place, i am clearly in favour of a single representation and a single place. but this is a political problem which was referred to me in a critical tone by a member who has preceded me in the use of the floor. it is indeed a matter of choice and it is a political problem which lies within the european union itself. it is the european union which must create the conditions for conciliation and coordination in order to be worthy of this single representative position within the international monetary fund. i know one thing for certain: a single coherent and audible european voice within the international monetary fund is indispensable for a genuine cooperation policy. that is also a message from mr hamon, and i fully support that.
hundreds of prisoners in a legal vacuum and subjected to torture. i am not talking about the infamous arrests of saddam, the taliban, the syrian prisons or other dictatorships. i am talking about guantanamo controlled by the united states of america, a nation which has been fundamental and indispensable in the construction of international human rights law and which under the bush administration is shamelessly violating them including the minimum standards of the geneva convention. the european union must make itself heard, join the increasingly loud voices in the united states denouncing the immorality and ineffectiveness of the use of torture in the fight against terrorism and the irresponsibility of those who institute such perversions as the american civic liberties union does. the european union must demand the closure of guantanamo and the prosecution of the highest-ranking american political and military officials for crimes committed in the name of the war on terror. because complicit silence is in fact playing into the hands of terrorists and sacrifices the fundamental values of human dignity and the rule of law. the values that, through 9/11, and attacks like those in madrid and london, terrorist fanatics aim precisely to destroy.
i would like to refer to the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism, which was celebrated for the second time on 11 march. i would like to thank the president for the information he has given us on the way in which the european parliament has marked this date, but i would ask the president and the services to make efforts with the council to make this ceremony and date have more resonance and more dignity in all the countries of the european union. i believe that this is essential, and that national parliaments should also be involved and that the european day of remembrance for the victims of terrorism should be given greater visibility in the future. i believe that is very important in order to face this tremendous difficulty and threat.
madam president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating commissioner frattini on his attention to human trafficking. it is indeed one of the most revolting expressions of international crime. it constitutes a serious abuse of human rights and of immigration and labour laws and is a crime that seriously affects both national and international security. this type of crime has been growing at an alarming rate, and according to un figures it has even become the third most lucrative activity for organised crime. this is a transnational phenomenon and has become a major concern for many countries, whether they are countries of origin, transit or destination. a global and coordinated response is therefore needed, which should involve stepping up efforts at both legislative and operational levels. the adoption in 2002 of the framework decision approximating the criminal laws and penalties of the member states and allowing a judge in a member state to issue a european arrest warrant for criminals involved in trafficking in human beings was important in the legislative field. this framework decision should have been transposed by the beginning of august 2004. we are still waiting for a report on the evaluation of the measures taken by the member states and whether or not they have been implemented by all the member states. as regards the operational plan, i believe that it is particularly important to strengthen the role of europol, which is underused, that we need a global and rapid response capacity to support victims, which can protect them through immediate assistance, and that we need to improve the exchange of information and statistical data, to which the commissioner referred in his initial speech.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is a scourge that must be fought by all means. every year more than 700,000 women and children are caught in trafficking networks. in europe alone, 100 000 women are trafficked annually and subjected to practices that undermine their physical integrity and mental health. trafficking in women and children is the fastest growing criminal activity and is known to increase during major sporting events. trafficking in women is associated with illegal immigration. thousands of poor women are lured by the promise of decent, well-paying employment and then are thrown into prostitution. in view of all the above, the commission has a good opportunity, on the pretext of the world cup, to wage an exemplary fight against the trafficking and sexual exploitation of women and to put in place rapid and effective measures to support victims, in particular programmes for the social inclusion and rehabilitation of women, as well as legal, medical, psychological and translation assistance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. other we know how serious the consequences of the relocation of companies in various countries of the european union are, with the increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and the blockade of the development of large areas, particularly in countries with weak economies, portugal being an example, where so-called traditional industries such as textiles and clothing, footwear and cabling predominate. it is true, as the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs states, that relocation affects not only these so-called traditional enterprises but also capital-intensive industries, namely the steel, aeronautics, machinery, electronic equipment and shipbuilding industries, and also important areas of the service sectors, such as software development and financial, logistical and information services. it is good that the committee on regional development, through its rapporteur, mr alain hutchinson, has welcomed most of the views of the committee on employment and social affairs, in particular the defence of the inclusion of social clauses in international treaties, based on the ilo conventions so that countries and companies respect them, although personally he considers these measures insufficient. however, as we have already argued during the debate and vote on this parliament's resolution of 13 march 2003 on the closure of companies after receiving financial aid from the european union, the commission and the member states must act to prevent this genuine economic and social scourge from continuing solely for the benefit of higher transnational profits and economic groups that do not demonstrate any social responsibility. it is essential that this debate has some practical consequences in order to safeguard the rights of workers and to prevent the continuing financing of economic groups with a history of relocations and unemployment in any member state of the european union. it is urgent that the european commission, in collaboration with the member states and taking into account the opinion of the european works councils, draw up and disseminate the blacklist of companies and economic and/or financial groups that have used relocations to increase their profits and demand the return of the aid granted, setting higher requirements for the protection of employment and regional development in the next regulations on community funds.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, exactly three years ago, following protracted struggles by workers in defence of jobs and the viability of companies such as cg & clark in portugal, parliament adopted on 13 march 2003 a resolution with a set of recommendations on the closure of companies which have benefited from community funding. after three years, what has the european commission done to put these recommendations into practice? what steps have you taken to make community aid conditional on long-term agreements on employment and local development? has the commission made available the record of contractual breaches by companies which have relocated and which have benefited directly or indirectly from public incentives? how many times has the commission refused to grant or demanded the reimbursement of community funding to undertakings which have not fully complied with contracts? what concrete measures has the commission taken to support workers and the economic recovery of regions affected by relocations? has the commission drawn up the proposed code of conduct to prevent the relocation of companies? the answer to these questions is clearly given in this report, which, after three years, again lists the same recommendations to the european commission. in general, companies that relocate are characterized by an investment which, by ensuring that they obtain the most varied public incentives and support and the exploitation of cheap and unqualified labour, seeks to obtain high profits in a short period of time until, finding a more profitable alternative, they relocate, sometimes without even fulfilling the commitments they have made and ignoring the extremely serious social and economic damage they cause. the relocation of companies actually works as a permanent blackmail on workers, as pressure to reduce wages, to increase working hours, to increase labour flexibility, basically to reduce their rights. we therefore propose the adoption of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework to combat the relocation of companies so that in three years' time we will not have to have the same debate.
mr president, commissioner dimas, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work. in recent years, as has already been mentioned, there has been an increase in natural disasters as a result of climate change, environmental damage, land use change, etc. to respond quickly and effectively to major emergencies, the european union has a set of instruments, such as this regulation, among others, which it has been perfecting. the serious natural disasters that occurred in the summer of 2005, with major floods in central europe, severe droughts in southern europe and fires that destroyed thousands of hectares of forest in my country, portugal, and also in spain, call for appropriate and rapid prevention and civil protection measures. in the working meetings with the local, regional and national authorities of the six countries affected by natural disasters which i visited as rapporteur for the committee on the environment's own-initiative report on natural disasters, it was emphasized that, in order to serve the people, the community's emergency response instruments must be simplified and the rules for applying the regulations more flexible, that is to say simplified and flexible, and in addition, it was recommended that coordination at european level be strengthened and, of course, that financial appropriations be increased.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, this report tackles one of the main problems facing the european union today, with serious repercussions in the worsening of unemployment, economic and social inequalities and the abandonment of vast regions, blocking their development. we believe it is essential that business restructuring should only take place when it is necessary to save jobs and ensure the development of businesses and never just to increase profits at the expense of redundancies or for purely financial and speculative reasons, as is increasingly the case. we therefore insist on the need for strict regulations against such restructuring, which leads to unemployed investment and is accompanied by the dismissal of thousands of workers. the commission has also proposed that the new regulations should ensure that the granting of aid is accompanied by the obligation to maintain employment with rights and regional development in the medium term, without which they cannot receive any support. we therefore insist on the need to ensure that workers, through their representatives, in particular the european works councils, have the right to intervene in the whole process, including the right of veto, and we therefore call for this directive on european works councils to be revised.
in writing. we voted in favour because we think it is important to set up a european institute for gender equality, but we stress that it is essential that it should not be limited to studies, analyses and statistics, as important as all of this is. it must develop cooperation and dialogue with ngos and bodies specialised in the field of equal opportunities, both at national and european level and with third countries, and support measures and actions aimed at ending discrimination. it is also necessary to analyse and monitor the development of the integration of the gender equality dimension into all the policies and the budgetary process of the european union, in particular with regard to the evaluation of the impact of relevant national community policies on men and women, as we proposed and which, unfortunately, was not adopted. finally, we hope that adequate community funding will be secured and that there will be good sense in the appointment of its future administrative board.
in writing. the quasi-police of opinions and the quasi-establishment of single thoughts have turned serious and relevant debates addressing issues of concern into exercises of faith-confirmation in certain policies. this is clearly the case with so-called gender policies. the recognition of the need for a more balanced society, with a more modern division of labour between men and women and greater freedom of choice, is too often replaced by the imposition of policies which are supposed to achieve these aims. as if there were areas of policy where disagreement on method and models was impossible. in summary, this is the basis of my first objection to the idea of an institute for equality between men and women within the european union. the fact that i advocate, as i said above, the need for greater balance in the organization of our societies does not lead me to advocate the creation of such an institute. bureaucratizing freedom doesn't seem like a good way to go. not all methods are good for the realization of a just design. the proliferation of agencies and institutes does not seem to me to be a suitable model for the organization of the community institutions.
in writing. the recent natural disasters, such as floods, extreme drought and forest fires, which have affected not only countries in the european union but also outside it (tsunamis in asia, cyclones in the usa), demonstrate the importance of effective civil protection mechanisms. the commission's proposed high-urgency preparedness and response instrument is designed to strengthen the eu's response capacity in the context of the civil protection mechanism and to maximise assistance in terms of preparedness and rapid response to major emergencies. however, it does not deal with the question of prevention. we therefore consider it important that this report be adopted, which emphasizes this issue by proposing that it be included in the scope of the application of this instrument. we also stress the proposals for integrated management of natural and environmental resources, including the management of forests, areas most prone to flooding, wetlands and other fragile ecosystems and risk assessment in urban areas, the call for special attention to be paid to isolated and outermost regions, greater information and awareness-raising among the population and greater and better training of professionals.
in writing. the text proposed by the commission offers good prospects for civil protection at european level. the measures and actions for which this instrument can be activated will bring great benefits in preparing for and responding to crisis situations. with the amendments tabled by parliament, the prevention of these phenomena is also given a place in the instrument, which seems to be essential in the fight against such important objectives as the protection of people, the environment and property. in a country like portugal, which is plagued every year by forest fires and droughts that leave irreparable marks, this proposal will allow the training of specialised staff, preparation mechanisms and the sharing of equipment and best practices with more developed countries in this field. i therefore agree with mr papadimoulis' report and the amendments to the commission's text.
in writing. we naturally follow the proposals made in the report to introduce and enhance the prevention dimension within this instrument as a key factor in reducing disaster risks, or to enhance the international role of the un in managing relief and aid to the population, or to introduce the protection of public health and cultural heritage, among other aspects. but the debate on solidarity between countries in the event of a catastrophe also helps to highlight (if not to denounce) the unacceptable waste of resources in the arms race and the militarization of international relations by the major capitalist powers, with the united states as their main promoter. what could not be done with the colossal financial resources of militarization and war in the context of prevention, relief and immediate response, as well as the recovery of regions affected by disasters? how many lives, how much suffering, how much destruction of economic, social and environmental resources could be avoided if a policy of de-escalation of international relations, peaceful settlement of conflicts, disarmament and effective mutually beneficial cooperation between the different countries and peoples were pursued?
in writing. the european union has responded positively and in a spirit of solidarity to requests for assistance sent by member states in cases of serious emergencies. however, recent major disasters such as the extreme droughts and fires in portugal and spain have shown that strengthening the community civil protection mechanism should be an immediate objective before new emergencies occur. the text clearly improves on the commission proposal in extending the scope of the regulation and increasing the funding for prevention, preparedness and assistance in the event of disasters. the question of marine pollution is added, because we have to recognize that a coastal state alone cannot deal with an environmental emergency caused by a large-scale oil spill that hits its coast. we are also an open union with policies of international solidarity. we must do what we can when other peoples are affected by serious emergencies, but we must not forget that the main objective is to strengthen mutual aid between the member states of the union. in short, these measures will enable us to respond more adequately to requests for aid, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the imf is one of the bretton woods institutions which, along with the world bank and gatt/wto, helped to settle the development inequalities between the capitalist centre and the capitalist periphery, not only by facilitating and promoting the liberalization of trade in goods and services, but also by promoting the prevailing liberal ideology, in particular with recommendations on the reduction of the role of the state, privatisations, labour flexibility, among others, which we can now find in the so-called 'lisbon strategy'. through structural adjustment plans they are trying to adapt the economies of the southern countries to the so-called market and competitive economy, by opening up to foreign investment and opening the door to models of economic specialization that favour the centre. the disastrous economic and social consequences of these plans are well known. even the famous stabilization they claim to be aiming for is not only not happening, but today the international monetary system is more unstable and the occurrence of financial crises is increasing. we need another monetary system, based on the un, based on mutual benefit and the promotion of development. the reform of the imf, even if it is based on a greater participation of developing countries, which is not the case, does not change its nature. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the resolution which the european parliament adopted on the relocation of companies was the resolution that was possible because the compromise between the dominant political forces in the ep - social democracy and the right - refused a more consequential resolution by rejecting the amendments which we have tabled to:- denounce that companies that relocate generally aim at maximum profit, ensuring that they obtain tax incentives and financial support, exploiting a cheap and unrighteous labour force; - denounce the fact that relocations are part of the liberalisation of trade and the deregulation of the labour market worldwide, in particular in the wto; - to create a legal and regulatory framework which, inter alia, includes: the contractual definition of a period of at least seven years guaranteeing the creation of stable and lasting employment and the economic development of the regions, provides for penalties to be applied in the event of non-compliance with contractual obligations (refund of the aid granted and prohibition of new community aid) and guarantees the protection of workers by ensuring their information and decisive intervention, including the right of veto; - to draw up an annual communication on relocations and their consequences. in the meantime, we hope that what has been agreed will at least be implemented.
in writing. i agree with the report mainly in the diagnosis chapter, because in the therapeutics chapter it seems to me that the paths already taken have proved to be unsuccessful. i therefore share the view expressed in the report that, despite these disagreements, too often relocation is looked at after it has already taken place, and that this is not only unhelpful but also a sign of a serious inability to anticipate reality. i therefore believe that some legislative measures should be promoted to prevent the waste of public funds and the use of public benefits without a consequent concern for responsibility in the management of private entities. but i don't think certain relocation moves are avoidable. just as i don't think this debate can be had without doing all the accounting, without looking at the profit and loss. in other words, the jobs lost as a result of the opening up of markets must be added to the jobs created by this opening up - not to mention the advantages for consumers. avoid the "law of the jungle" but do not try to prevent a reality from imposing itself. rather, our ambition should be to make the most of it.
in writing. the commission proposal seeks to fill in gaps and propose a european strategy for the next few years for the production and use of mercury in europe. the end of mercury exports, the end of its use in measuring equipment, dental amalgams, the control of emissions and the study of the effect of mercury use in vaccines are important points in this proposal which can bring clear benefits to public health. the authorization provided for in amendment no 2 protects small producers when controlled conditions exist, museum pieces, barometers and items of historical value. in amendment no 6, the advance of the deadline for the restriction of exports could be rushed and harm europe by favouring mercury-exporting third countries only. i agree with the commission proposal and with the report by marios matsakis in general.
in writing. we regret that the amendments proposed by our group (gue/ngl) to this report to guarantee free access to technology and knowledge, the free movement and exchange of knowledge and the role of intellectual property rights in the free movement and dissemination of knowledge were not adopted. without this, the knowledge-based society risks being confined to an elite. however, the report covers the continuation of the policy of liberalisation and the use of communications to convey 'european ideals and values', i.e. to turn icts into another mechanism for the european union's propaganda. although it makes reference to the role of icts in promoting social and territorial cohesion and warns that new technologies can contribute to deepening social exclusion, it does not develop the subject or make proposals to prevent this situation. our abstention is justified by the contradictions in the report.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague mr paasilinna on his important and timely report on a european information society for growth and jobs, which i support, particularly with regard to the need to swiftly adopt the seventh research framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip) for 2007-2013, both of which are designed to provide the appropriate financial means to support ict as a driver of competitiveness, growth and employment. these two programmes will help develop the entrepreneurial spirit and culture in the eu that are key to the development of regions, break the 'digital divide' and support smes to develop innovative projects.
in writing. there are two ideas in this report which i consider to be fundamental and which justify my vote in favour, despite my disagreement with other aspects of the report. on the one hand, it seems to me that it is of the utmost importance to realize that in the matter of new technologies almost everything that is said is looking backwards. we don't know what the future will be, we just know it's going to be fast and different. for this reason, the main objective of regulation should be to ensure, on the one hand, openness to competition and, on the other, incentives for investment in innovation. the european economy will only be competitive if it is an innovation economy, an economy for the future and not for this time. on the other hand, i share the concern about the issues of privacy and information security. the society that is developing has, among other things, the risk of being a surveillance society, and that will be the greatest tragedy of modernity in terms of public freedoms. finally, let us recognize that innovation, particularly new technologies, has brought about a democratic revolution in modern societies which must be welcomed, preserved and encouraged.
one year after the last restrictions on imports of footwear from china were lifted, we are now in a position to assess objectively the consequences of trade liberalization in this sector, which is characterized by a sharp increase in imports with the inherent consequences for the european fabric of production. this new reality underlines the need for close monitoring of the restructuring process under way in the footwear sector, encouraging the efforts of the business community to adapt, reorganizing the economic fabric of the regions most directly affected and taking account of the social consequences of the changes. but at the same time it is essential that the european commission should take steps to detect and counteract situations of manifest unfair competition which dramatically aggravate an already problematic situation. unfair competition is the greatest ally of protectionist impulses. the european union must be particularly demanding in this area. in this context, we should welcome the commission's decision to adopt anti-dumping measures after it was found that both china and vietnam have resorted to reprehensible practices in order to artificially lower the prices of their exports in this sector. such practices are particularly unacceptable, given that these countries already enjoy extraordinary comparative advantages. so there can be no room for any kind of calculating contemplation. the measures taken, while commendable on the whole, raise some concerns. the option of gradually implementing the anti-dumping duties, starting with a low amount, may immediately lead to an increase in imports from china and vietnam in advance, thus aggravating the existing situation. this is a serious concern. on the other hand, the option of excluding certain categories of products from the scope of the measures also deserves clear criticism, since there is a fear of abuse which can only be properly counteracted if, as we hope, a rigorous monitoring of these imports is developed.
i would like to begin by supporting the proposal for anti-dumping measures in the footwear sector. it was the minimum we had to demand because dumping destroys the essence and the raison d'être of free trade and european industry cannot die from apathy and complicity in such practices. in the absence of time, i shall confine myself to two comments. once dumping is confirmed, it makes no sense to continue to tolerate it. this is what will happen in practice with the gradual approach envisaged for the application of anti-dumping measures. this gradualism is not justified. second comment: the exclusion of children's footwear is absolutely unacceptable. it has no justification, no legal basis and no technical support. the credibility of these measures is totally compromised by maintaining this and other unjustified exclusions. i therefore urge that these aspects be re-examined. finally, it is vital that the commission should move away from a permanent reactive position and start to show concrete results in its policy priority of opening up third markets for european footwear exports, namely, and in particular, the markets of japan, the market access mechanisms of russia and the opening up of china itself.
the situation in the footwear sector is worrying, particularly in portugal. as an example, dozens of companies in the aveiro district closed down or reduced the number of employees during 2005, as is the case with ecco and rhode. unemployment and the risk of poverty are increasing, as can be seen from the closure of the c&j clarks company in castelo de paiva and the promises of support, training and subsidies to workers, who two years later find themselves abandoned to their fate. once again it is necessary to point out that:- with the rapid increase in footwear imports from third countries, it was not the so-called consumers who were left to their own devices, but the large retailers and distributors who made fabulous profits; - the responsibility for the closure of businesses and the loss of jobs lies not with third countries but with the european union, which is the first to promote competition and the liberalisation of international trade and which maintains a value of the euro that is detrimental to productive and exporting sectors such as footwear. with this policy they lose workers, they lose small, medium and micro enterprises, they lose countries like portugal - as studies and, more importantly, reality prove.
madam minister, mr vice-president frattini, i would first like to congratulate mrs hazan on her excellent work. as mayor oreja has already said, we welcomed the creation of the european arrest warrant as an innovative and very effective step in developing judicial cooperation and strengthening cooperation based on mutual trust, ensuring the same level of legal protection for citizens of the union and becoming one of the main instruments in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. unfortunately, this first assessment has identified a number of problems which prevent its full implementation and which ultimately undermine mutual trust. difficulties in transposition, including recourse to constitutional jurisdiction in several member states, practical obstacles to enforcement, including translation, transmission, use of divergent forms and resistance by several member states to retain certain elements of the traditional extradition system, such as the control of double criminality or the intervention of political power in the judicial process. i would like to emphasize three points: firstly, to recall once again the benefits that the adoption of the draft constitutional treaty would bring to this area of judicial and police cooperation, in particular by abolishing the pillars. as mr demetriou has already said, we will have to use the means at our disposal and make use of the bridge (in article 42 of the treaty) allowing member states to integrate the european arrest warrant into the first pillar in order to ensure greater transparency and democratic control by the european parliament and judicial control by the court of justice. secondly, the desirable use of the nordic detention order as a source of inspiration for strengthening the effectiveness of the european arrest warrant. there are innovative aspects to the nordic detention order, including a more efficient surrender regime and shorter procedural time limits. thirdly and lastly, it is essential that not only the european parliament but also the national parliaments should be involved, as vice-president frattini said, in the forthcoming evaluation processes on the progress made in the implementation of the european arrest warrant.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the question period is now over (b6-0013/2006). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by eoin ryan (h-0110/06) subject: the use of the euro as a currency in the european union subject: ethiopian opposition figures 131 leading ethiopian opposition figures are currently in detention, including 10 elected members of the ethiopian parliament, as well as teachers, judges and journalists. will the council state what steps it has taken to draw the attention of the ethiopian authorities to such serious injustices, in view of the fact that these detentions constitute a violation of international law and that the european union is the world's largest donor of international aid to ethiopia?
why is ethiopia one of the poorest countries in the world, as you said? it is because of the nature of the political regime, which distrusts civil society even to channel food aid, as i witnessed when i was the chief election observer in ethiopia. it is also because it is a country where 85% of the population are peasants: they do not own land and therefore have no incentive to produce. did yesterday’s and today’s donors meetings take into consideration the conclusions of the european union election observation mission, that the elections failed to respect the principles for genuine democratic elections, and which highlighted the reasons for such failure? why has the council ignored this parliament’s calls in three resolutions to enter into dialogue ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the interventions already carried out here demonstrate that the levels of poverty and social exclusion are very high and affect more than 70 million people in the european union. as the report states, it is known that in 14 of the 17 member states for which data are available, child poverty increased in the 1990s. but the current situation is likely to be aggravated by high levels of unemployment, the increase in precarious and low-paid work, flexibility, privatisation of basic sectors and services. the fact that poverty is a violation of human rights calls for greater attention to its causes and the necessary measures to promote social inclusion from a multidisciplinary perspective. hence the proposals we make in defence of changing macroeconomic policies to put social inclusion, employment with rights, public health services, education, access to justice, culture, decent housing at the centre of political priorities. we therefore advocate replacing the stability pact with a genuine development and progress pact and the lisbon strategy with a genuine strategy of economic and social cohesion, which implies that the draft directive on the creation of the internal market in services should not be insisted upon either. experience has already shown that the open method of coordination provided for in the lisbon strategy has not reduced poverty. based on the lisbon strategy, what has advanced are the liberalisations and privatisations of public sectors and services, which have aggravated poverty and made social inclusion more difficult. because these measures were mandatory, the open method of coordination did not oblige any member state to reduce poverty, and that is the difference in this process, two weights and two measures. public policies are essential to alleviating poverty and guaranteeing human rights, hence the need for a universal and supportive public social security policy and the rejection of the privatisation of health systems that we propose. the state also has a key role to play in ensuring quality public education and guaranteeing labour rights in respect of the dignity of those who work. so we insist that it is not enough to lament poverty. we need to change the neo-liberal policies that are at the heart of the increase in the number of people at risk of poverty and that is the challenge we are making here so that this debate is no longer a debate without consequences.
on behalf of the pse group. other the praise in this case is not just a formality, it is the recognition of absolutely exemplary, participatory and dedicated work towards the achievement of two very clear objectives, namely simplification and proportionality in the application of the rules. from that point of view, it has become an extraordinarily well-done work for which we cannot barter our praise. i would like to say that i think it is essential to look at what is going to be necessary in this process of reforming the financial regulation. it is essential that we ensure that, throughout the next financial perspective period, we continue to exercise the same co-decision power on the part of this european parliament as we have had in the past, because i think it is essential to ensure four tasks in the near future. firstly, to update budgetary doctrine in certain specific areas such as the principle of annuality and the mechanisms of budgetary flexibility; secondly, to reduce exceptions to the strictly necessary minimum, to affirm the primacy of the financial regulation over sectoral legislation, to put an end to duplication and contradictions between the basic and the implementing regulation and between them and the sectoral regulations; thirdly, to clarify the duties, powers and responsibilities of the various budgetary actors and to ensure that they are properly reflected in budgetary accounting rules. finally, to integrate and make coherent the financial regulation and the financial framework agreed in the interinstitutional agreement. these are tasks which may seem simple, but are in fact complex and to which we must give our best attention now.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the openness and the synthetic effort he has shown in drawing up his report, which we have generally followed and which was unanimously approved by the committee on fisheries. the sustainability of fisheries resources is undoubtedly crucial to ensuring the long-term viability of the fishing industry and the fisheries sector. sustainability of resources, which should be based on a comprehensive approach to measures to protect the marine environment and to recover fish stocks, should also take into account factors such as coastal and high seas pollution, industrial and agricultural tributaries, dredging of funds and maritime transport. such sustainability should also be based on technical measures resulting from scientific fisheries research, in particular through the implementation of protection periods and zones and mesh size rules. we also believe that fisheries management policies should not be used to penalise this strategically valuable activity, which is of vital economic and social importance, and that a balance should be struck between meeting socioeconomic needs and environmental sustainability, in particular by implementing appropriate socioeconomic measures to compensate fishermen for the costs of reduced activity caused by recovery plans for fish stocks, especially those working in less developed areas. and because the common fisheries policy is a common policy, we think that it should also bear the costs of its decisions in this area, and so we have tabled a further amendment calling on the commission to propose socioeconomic compensatory measures with the guarantee of community funding for the recovery plans for fish stocks. we also argued that fishermen and their representative associations should be involved in the definition of measures to protect the marine environment and to recover fish stocks, and we re-submitted an amendment which considers decentralization and co-management as two fundamental principles, both to ensure the involvement of fishermen and their representative associations in the definition of measures in these areas and to ensure their effectiveness, taking into account not only that it is the fishermen who will apply them, but also that they have an on-the-spot knowledge of the state of the resources and are the main stakeholders in their conservation.
i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and to say that i consider the european commission's initiative to launch the communication on the promotion of more environmentally friendly fishing methods to be very positive. the role of technical conservation measures is more important than ever for the future of the sector. it is essential to ensure that fishing methods are used to increase selectivity and therefore to enable fish to be caught at the correct sizes, taking into account the biology and life cycle of each species. ensuring satisfactory reproduction of fish and consequently the increase of stocks requires appropriate management measures such as temporary closure of certain fisheries, reduction of by-catches to sustainable levels and effective monitoring of vessels and fishing areas using satellite technologies. it is also necessary to know the specific fishing realities in the different member states and, on the basis of that knowledge, to ensure the application of correct and balanced measures that can ensure the recovery or management of fishing grounds while safeguarding the main interest of fishermen and shipowners. to this end, a decentralised approach is needed, taking into account the specific characteristics of fishermen and of different species. despite the commission's good intentions, a more decentralised approach is sometimes needed on important and sensitive issues for the economic and environmental sustainability of fisheries. the initial proposal put forward by the european commission for the recovery of southern hake and the more recent proposal for the recovery of european eel are examples of this. finally, i would like to point out that the development of scientific research and the sharing of technology at community level are fundamental prerequisites for ensuring the integration of environmentally friendly fishing rules. i think we should all be very careful in this respect about the channelling of funds which will be made available under the new community framework for research support.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly endorse the congratulations already addressed to our colleague mr seán ó neachtain. i think that this is a report on a commission communication which is the nerve centre of the common fisheries policy, it must be here and not in other areas, with other instruments, that we must find the solutions to the problems we are facing and that is why there could be nothing more important than this debate we are having here today. in the autonomous region of the azores, we have seen significant progress in this respect in recent years, notably through the prohibition of the use of bottom trawls and bottom trawling. i think, however, that in the autonomous region of the azores and in all community waters there is still a great deal to be done in terms of these more environmentally friendly methods. firstly, management needs to be much closer to fisheries, taking into account the fundamental concept of the marine habitat as the centre for implementing a fisheries policy. secondly, we must give the problem of returns the highest priority, as our rapporteur has stressed. we know that there are other countries in europe itself, outside the european union, which use the ban on all returns as a method, and i see no reason why we should not move faster to do exactly the same thing within the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels.
it is time to see and hear the growing protests and struggles against the neo-liberal measures contained in this lisbon strategy, now revised, and whose consequences are the opposite of what they had promised in 2000 at the lisbon summit. with the intensification of the liberalization of markets, the privatisation of public services and the promotion of labour flexibility, now flexicurity, as the commission says, what we have is less economic growth, more unemployment and more precarious work, more poverty and greater inequalities in the distribution of income, always in the name of competitiveness and free competition. it is now clearer that the two fundamental pillars of neo-liberal policies are the stability pact and the so-called lisbon strategy, to which are added the brutal cuts in community funds, turning economic and social cohesion into a mere mirage. as we have argued in the resolution we have tabled, it is therefore essential that the lisbon strategy be replaced by a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which promotes investment in research and innovation with a view to balanced and sustainable development, in the quality of work in all its aspects, in the improvement of skills, in basic infrastructure to support industry, in public services, in environmental protection and in green technologies, particularly in the areas of energy and transport, in the improvement of labour, social, environmental and safety standards, with a view to achieving harmonisation at the highest level, and in the social economy. a new social policy agenda is also urgently needed to develop a society ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, two notes only. achieving the objectives of growth and job creation requires strengthening the gender perspective in the lisbon strategy, especially in the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, increasing the female employment rate, developing a strategy for active ageing, and building a society of lifelong learning. the second note is on the financial perspective. an interinstitutional agreement is urgently needed. time is of the essence. the council, the commission and parliament must negotiate a solution quickly. european citizens are not going to accept any more delays. we will 'lisbonise' the european union and pass a budget that serves the goals of growth and more and better jobs for all, including women. without women, the lisbon strategy will not succeed.
in writing. i believe that the partnership agreement between the european community and the federated states of micronesia (fsm) on fishing off the efm should be concluded in accordance with the proposal for a council regulation. the eastern pacific is one of the richest tuna fishing areas in the world and scientific studies show that the current state of stocks allows the fishery to be extended to third countries. the agreement provides for compensation for both parties while safeguarding the implementation of a sustainable fisheries policy in the gfcm. although i support the conclusion of this partnership agreement, i would like to draw attention to the excessive amount of licence fees for longliners which constitute an intolerable burden for some shipowners.
in writing. the reform of the cfp has made it imperative to update regulation (ec) no 3690/93 of 20 december 1993, and information on fishing vessels needs to be brought into line with the new rules on management and conservation of resources in order to properly apply the fundamental principle of 'effort management'. the amendments which are intended to be included, in particular the insertion of the 'community fleet register' number and the grading of the gear used by the vessel, are important elements which were not included in the original regulation. the commission proposal and the amendments which the rapporteur has included in his report deserve my support.
in writing. as we stressed in 2001, under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, the european commission has put forward proposals which, going far beyond the necessary cooperation between states and existing legal instruments such as extradition, have advanced the supra-nationalisation of key aspects of justice, undermining the sovereignty of states and their duty to safeguard the rights of their citizens. we said then that the european arrest warrant, which is intended inter alia to abolish the principle of double incrimination, even if only to a limited extent, would be a trojan horse designed to lay the foundations for further supranational advances. this report confirms our criticisms. it considers judicial sovereignty to be an obstacle, as is interference by the existing political power in the extradition process, even if it is for reasons of respect for fundamental rights. it is significant that the german constitutional court annulled the legislation transposing the european arrest warrant and that, following this decision, several member states have resumed the application of extradition instruments, decisions which the report criticises, advocating the activation of the so-called passerelle provided for in article 42 of the treaty on european union, thus integrating the european arrest warrant into the first pillar.
in writing. the evaluation of the european arrest warrant has the advantage of focusing on one of the most important mechanisms of judicial cooperation within the european union, when, as is well known, such cooperation is both increasingly necessary and always difficult. traditionally, national authorities have not shared information easily in the security sector, just as they have had difficulty in cooperating in the judicial field. the european arrest warrant therefore responds to these inclinations, seeking to impose cooperation which is fundamental both in terms of greater security - it is the efficient way to prevent criminals from benefiting from the advantages of free movement - but also of greater legal certainty, an equally fundamental good. that said, it is regrettable that it is still necessary to remind member states that they must take 'appropriate measures to avoid any constitutional or legal obstacle to the application of the european arrest warrant to their nationals'. on the other hand, we cannot but mention and congratulate portugal for being one of the first member states to transpose the framework decision in question.
in writing. although we voted in favour of this resolution on forced prostitution, recognising the concrete situation in germany and the need to use the world cup to denounce human trafficking and prostitution, we have always said that this is not the correct expression, because we are trying to make people believe that there is voluntary prostitution. it is clear that the fight against forced prostitution and human trafficking is important, but it must be borne in mind that, in general, all prostitution is forced, even when there is no trafficking. it is poverty, it is social exclusion, it is unemployment, it is precarious and low-paid jobs, it is the psychological pressure of the consumer society. so prostitution is always an attack on human rights, an attack on the dignity of women, a real form of slavery. it is unacceptable to try to market everything, including women's bodies. hence our fight for social inclusion, for the rights of all women to their dignity and the condemnation of all forms of trafficking in human beings, demanding effective measures to guarantee all women and all human beings a life of dignity.
in writing. globalisation is not just a process of convergence, of reducing distances and maximising scale, it is also a process of acceleration. everything is moving today, everything is faster. understandably, then, some are apprehensive about the voracity of this modern age. the end of a cycle, the undoing of a pattern, the break, is always a moment of crisis. it is obviously unlikely that the victims of these processes believe in the virtues of "creative destruction". and yet it is as real as the destruction itself. these considerations are justified because the jean louis cottigny report on restructuring and employment is precisely what is wrong with it, namely that it is not in keeping with reality. we must prepare social structures, particularly those of a public character, for the impact of the changes that this moment of economic revolution will bring, because we cannot be indifferent to those excluded from progress. but i do not think it desirable to reverse the process. on the contrary, our aim is to try to make the most of this time for our economies, for our citizens, and it is on this project that our efforts must be concentrated.
in writing. the european commission's report on social protection and inclusion confirms that member states are stepping up their efforts to combat poverty and ensure that pension schemes remain able to provide adequate income for pensioners. however, the report points out that more than 68 million people, or 15% of the eu population, were at risk of poverty in 2002. despite major structural improvements in the eu labour market, employment and participation levels remain low. unemployment remains high in several member states, especially among young people, older workers and women. there is also a local and regional dimension to exclusion from the labour market. i fully support the report by mrs bauer which commends the measures presented by the commission to help member states to recognise the difficulties faced by disadvantaged people and to support their integration, to promote job creation, training and career progression, reconciliation of family and private life, the right to equitable access to health care and decent housing, and to ensure the sustainability of social protection systems.
in writing. following the previous debate, we welcome the support given by commissioner borg, who is responsible for fisheries, to our amendment, which argues that decentralization and co-management are two fundamental principles both to ensure the involvement of fishermen and their representative associations in the definition of measures in these areas and to ensure their effectiveness, taking into account, as we have stressed, that it is the fishermen who will apply them and that it is they who have an on-the-spot knowledge of the state of the resources and who are the main stakeholders in their conservation. we also note that you are open to considering the amendment which we have tabled, which calls on the commission to propose socioeconomic compensatory measures, with the guarantee of community funding, for the recovery plans for fish stocks. incomprehensibly, the majority of the european parliament rejected these proposals, which we regret.
in writing. a sustainable fisheries sector based on the latest developments in scientific and technological research is essential to achieving one of the union's main objectives, namely the exploitation of living marine resources in a way that creates sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions. this commission communication seems to be a step in the right direction, particularly as it plays an important role in promoting ecologically sustainable fisheries management. i would like to stress the importance of these measures for fishermen, since it is in their interest to make any economic activity environmentally friendly, as it ensures healthy fish stocks. the socioeconomic consequences of these new measures may be significant in the short term and it is therefore necessary to involve stakeholders in the planned reforms and to study methods of compensation for fishermen negatively affected in the short and medium term by environmentally friendly fishing. in the light of the above, i consider that the content of this communication is a relevant and important contribution to building a positive future, both for those whose livelihoods depend on fishing and for the protection of the natural environment.
in writing. it is almost a year since the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, agreed by the spring european council in march last year. the european commission, in its annual interim report on the lisbon strategy, published on 25 january in preparation for the next spring european council, while acknowledging the significant progress made since then, argues that the priority now is to produce results and that the time has come to accelerate reforms. it identifies four priority areas for action in which the heads of state or government of the european union should commit themselves to take the following additional concrete measures at national and european level: increased investment in education and innovation, unlocking the potential of enterprises, especially smes, responding to the challenges of globalisation and an ageing population, and moving towards an effective and integrated european energy policy. the european parliament's motion for a resolution before us contains some considerations and suggestions on those four priority areas which i wholeheartedly support. that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. while we regret the rejection of our resolution, it should be noted that about 100 members voted in favour (79) or abstained (20), which is more than double the number of members in our group and even more than the two groups gue and greens combined. it was also significant that an even larger number refused to vote on the joint resolution, which was nevertheless adopted by a majority. experience has already shown that the open method of coordination, as envisaged in the lisbon strategy, has not reduced poverty. based on the lisbon strategy, progress has been made in the liberalisation and privatisation of public sectors and services. the recognition that poverty is a violation of human rights calls for greater attention to its causes and the necessary measures to promote social inclusion, viewed in its multidisciplinary perspective. we therefore advocate replacing the stability pact with a genuine development and progress pact and the lisbon strategy with a genuine strategy of economic and social cohesion, which means that the draft directive on the creation of the internal market in services should not be pushed too far.
in writing. it is no coincidence that the european council is preceded by what could be called the general meeting of the great patronage on 16 and 17 march. the austrian chancellor and current president of the eu council, the president of the commission and the commissioners for business and industry, the environment, competition, research, the information society and the media, as well as government leaders responsible for the so-called national reform programmes, will take part. the big employers want to present their specifications in which they will reaffirm the demand for the implementation of the so-called structural reforms, a euphemism for right-wing politics, the real meaning of which workers know and feel; the precariousness of work and the loss of value of wages, the increase in the duration and working time and the retirement age, the degradation of public services and their subsequent liberalization and privatization, with emphasis on energy and communications, but also social security, health and education and research, with their role of exploitation, unemployment and poverty. it is to this agenda that the majority of the ep, by our vote against, subscribes in adopting this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the spring 2006 european council's contribution to the lisbon strategy because i agree with most of the considerations and proposals contained therein, in particular those resulting from a vision of the demanding, competitive and innovative european economy, which sees the full realisation of the internal market (of people, goods and services), the opening up to international trade, the focus on research and development, intra-community and intergenerational solidarity as the roadmap for europe's economic reform. there are, however, some points which i think need to be made clear. i think it is regrettable that, one year after the spring 2005 council, we are still exactly where we were in many areas, or almost there, in particular as regards freedom to provide services, freedom of establishment for citizens of the new member states, the deepening of the internal market, and the reform of budgetary priorities. these facts do not justify my disagreement with the resolution - not at all - but they emphasize my regret at the lack of commitment to reform of the european union.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the informal foreign ministers' council of 10 and 11 march 2006.
i agree with mr posselt's statement, but i have information that the minister will be arriving shortly.
some of the questions which the honourable member has just raised should be addressed to commissioner ferrero-waldner, who is not present, while many of the other questions which he has raised will be answered in the context of the debate on apem which will take place in due course.
i understand the unusual situation we are in, but unfortunately the agenda provides that the debate on mr brok's report will take place after the council and commission statements.
i understand the concerns expressed here by the members, but i must say that i do not know the regimental basis for solving this problem.
i propose that the sitting be adjourned for a few minutes while we await the arrival of the council representative. (the sitting was suspended at 3.20 p.m. and resumed at 3.35 p.m.) since the council representative has arrived, we can now resume our work.
the commission's initiative to review the merger regulation is welcome. in fact, the existing legislation has become ineffective, as illustrated by the asymmetrical but economically unsustainable legal decisions in relation to the energy market in portugal and spain. the recent emergence of large european operators complicates regulatory problems, especially in smaller countries with weaker resources. essential goods and services which should be provided universally at the lowest possible cost are being supplied by private companies in monopoly and oligopoly regimes. when market imperfections are the rule, the objectives which competition should theoretically generate become unattainable, and this is precisely where the role of regulation becomes crucial. commissioner, will we find answers to some of these questions in the current legislative review? how does the commission intend to regulate the power of european oligopolies? can europe live without a thorough reflection on industrial policy and services of general economic interest? i would appreciate an answer to these questions in advance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the recent tragic events, the conclusions of our last meeting in november, which were very clear, are extremely relevant. economic prosperity and social progress are not within everyone's reach, and that's why the issues of violence are so visible. we know in advance that the denial of health care and the denial of the right to acquire quantitative and qualitative knowledge reflect a social profile which particularly affects our partners in the southern mediterranean and discriminates against the most disadvantaged social groups, especially women and the poor. the future scenario worries us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this case, the data reveal that in the area of poverty reduction, immediate gains are very small, although other benefits may flow from the profound transformations in the economies of the mediterranean partners. in the areas of health and education too, we are unlikely to see any short-term gains, which means that in the absence of mitigation of this effect, adverse effects on health and education programmes are likely to occur. in the field of human rights, it is crucial that the situation of almost total absence of a methodological approach within the european union and the euro-mediterranean institutions on the question of economic and social rights and their role in the barcelona process be reviewed. i believe that in the present framework in particular, but in fact in all frameworks, this is a matter of the utmost importance and should be given due weight in the meda programme. the strengthening of the social dialogue within this partnership, the fight against child labour, cooperation in combating discrimination in the field of social security, the dialogue on social reforms or the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women must be our most urgent priorities in a spirit of urgent partnership. in the light of the situation we are experiencing today, this must clearly be a theme in the barcelona process.
the most serious of these were the recent events in palestine which forced the president of the palestinian authority, mahmoud abbas, to return to his country urgently and to cancel his address to the european parliament. the continuing israeli aggression against palestine, of which the recent destruction of the jericho prison is one of the most serious and humiliating events, requires a clear position from the european union. it happened after a recent agreement by the palestinian authority with the us and britain on the security of prisoners, yet nothing was done about this criminal act by israel. the commission and the council cannot continue to tolerate the israeli government and its escalation of criminal violence against palestine. it is urgent that measures be taken to prevent israel from continuing to act in this unacceptable way, by calling into question the most elementary rights of palestine. at the next meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, the european parliament must take a clear stand in solidarity with palestine and condemn the violence being perpetrated by israel, which is undermining peace in the middle east. it is urgent to comply with un resolutions and respect the choices of the palestinian people.
relief and satisfaction is what the news from new york today has brought us. the compromise proposal by president eliasson of the general assembly will not be perfect, but it is a good one. for reasons already pointed out by several colleagues and recently exposed by several nobel laureates in an article, including former president jimmy carter. we regret that the united states voted against, but we are not really surprised, since the vote of the american nation, which has historically worked so hard for human rights and international human rights law and the un, is today at the mercy of an administration which has no credibility or consistency in this matter. an administration that will be remembered for the ignominy of the illegal invasion of iraq, guantanamo, abu ghraib and the extraordinary rendition act. eleanor roosevelt and so many other honorable american human rights defenders are turning over in their graves today. the bush administration failed to hold the creation of the new council hostage in last-minute negotiations. it will be necessary to ensure that it will not succeed if it attempts to boycott the work of the new council. it is up to the european union to continue to ensure firm and farsighted leadership like that of president eliasson, through the austrian presidency and future presidencies, as well as the voices we need to hear much louder on this matter from mr solana and president barroso, by committing the full weight of europe to supporting the early start-up of the human rights council.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i also join in congratulating our rapporteur. the introduction of pdos, pgi and gsps was a very positive step for the development of rural areas, while at the same time promoting the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage and the extension of the supply of quality products to a growing universe of demanding and informed consumers. i can testify to this from the experience of my country, where more than a hundred products are subject to this discipline, most of them being fairly successful commercially. in some cases, market success represents both the rehabilitation of endangered native breeds and of exploitation methods that would otherwise be severely threatened or even extinct today. the main points of the proposals are to improve the existing regulatory framework and make it compatible with the wto rules we want to respect. i would stress that the better clarification and identification of the community symbols by means of colouring, the identification of the origin and place of processing of products from third countries, the maintenance of the decision at commission level, give credibility to the process and allow for a reduction in deadlines and simplification of bureaucracy.
we propose that the following sentence be inserted at the end of the first sentence of paragraph 5: and we hope that in future this participation will be improved and strengthened. and hopes that this participation is improved and strengthened in the future.
in paragraph 18 we propose that the reference to the un security council resolution be inserted in the middle of the sentence.
in writing. the european commission presented a community action programme in the field of health and consumer protection, combining two previously separate programmes in these fields, with the argument of energy creation, forgetting that there was an overlap between the objectives, strategies and instruments of one and the other. however, on 30 june 2005, the conference of presidents of the european parliament decided to divide the programme again. so this report only concerns the health programme, which in any case had a narrow scope and low funding. as we know, health is a primary good and its protection is of interest to everyone without exception. it is in this context that the report voted on today in the european parliament extends these powers and proposes an increase both in the overall amounts and in the co-financing of the actions to be developed. although we know that it will still be very insufficient for the demand and interest that this programme arouses, we voted in favour of the report, as it significantly improves the european commission's proposal.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to replace regulation (eec) no 2082/92 on certificates of specifications for agricultural products and foodstuffs by a new text, introducing various simplifications and clarifications and bringing it into line with wto provisions. i understand the need to amend community legislation in this area. i therefore agree with the substance of the commission's proposal and i am voting in favour of the graefe zu baringdorf report. in this report i would stress and vote in favour of amendments 6 (the possibility for a member state to require other types of information provided that this need is duly justified) and 13 (setting a deadline for existing private control bodies if they believe it).
in writing. since 1993, the specific character of agricultural products and foodstuffs has been protected at community level. this has allowed the development of traditional products with specific characteristics linked to the method of their production and preparation. the report we voted on contains many simplifications and clarifications, not only in terms of procedures but also in terms of clarifying the responsibilities of the various authorities involved in examining applications. the importance of this instrument is clearly to enable the products to be valued, but also to ensure the protection of consumers against abusive practices, thus ensuring the fair practice of commercial transactions. the objective of the pilot project is to develop a european tourism strategy to promote the development of tourism in the union. finally, i would like to stress that it is essential that our traditional products are valued, recovered when necessary and protected, because we are the custodians of the heritage we pass on today to future generations.
in writing. protected geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs make a significant contribution to improving the living conditions of the population in rural areas of the european union, including in portugal. the pressure from the usa and australia to make it appear that the existing regulations are incompatible with international trade agreements, particularly the infamous trips, is therefore unacceptable. the wto arbitration court itself has not found them, in general, to be compatible with wto obligations. however, the european union was nevertheless obliged to improve access for third countries. the commission is now trying to make adjustments, which the european parliament has decided to improve in most cases, in order to protect farmers and the rural world. in general, we are following these improvements and have therefore voted in favour, although we consider it essential to defend protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and protected traditional specialities.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to replace regulation (eec) no 2082/92 on certificates of specific character for agricultural products and foodstuffs by a new text, providing for clearer and simpler rules, while bringing them into line with the decision adopted by the wto dispute settlement body in response to complaints from the usa and australia, with the deadline of 3 april 2006. i understand the need to amend this community legislation, and i agree with the substance of the commission's proposal and i am voting in favour of the graefe zu baringdorf report.
in writing. the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs allows the producers concerned to preserve the production, processing and preparation of a product of a given origin by means of its registration. in the context of the need for regulatory changes in the light of the wto arbitration ruling, this report improves these instruments, which have significant results in access to higher priced markets and impact on job creation in rural areas of europe. in addition, the socioeconomic effects have been shown to be very positive for activities linked to tourism services. europe is the heir to millenary traditions which are a major tourist attraction. port wine or roquefort are world references for european products. it seems to me that it is important to clearly define the information to be provided to the consumer, not only for the protection of these products but also to enable the application and the rights of opposition. the clarification of the division of powers between the member states and the commission should be emphasized, since it only proves that the need for union activities must always be guided by respect for subsidiarity, so that the full potential effects of the planned actions can be achieved.
in writing. the ten countries that joined in 2007, with bulgaria and romania on their way, and because the appetites are voracious, are still digesting new steps towards turkey and the balkans, after actively instigating and carrying out the destruction of the federal republic of yugoslavia. the real objectives of such a race always emerge from the so-called 'political correctness': the establishment of a free trade area and the sharing of natural resources in exchange for concrete incentives, that is, the economic domination and exploitation of these peoples and the resources of their countries by the large economic and financial groups of the major powers of the eu, with germany at the head, not by chance, the power that, along with the usa, dominates and militarily occupies the region. look at this pearl of the ep majority's interference with a sovereign state: "dramatically highlights... weaknesses... such as excessive state intervention in the economy and the complexity of the rules... of public administration, which are hampering private development and foreign direct investment". or support, in breach of international law, for the division of serbia, providing for 'a kosovo whose territorial integrity is safeguarded by the un and the eu ...' (shortening of the statement pursuant to rule 163)
in writing. the elmar brok report on enlargement is an excellent portrait of the candidates for future accessions to the european union, but it is also, and above all, a call to attention to the difficulties that future enlargements will pose. i think two things should be clear. on the one hand, the one that refers to the "constitutional impasse". if there is a need for clarification and even a reformulation of the institutional structure before any further enlargement, it seems to me that there should also be no constraint on citizens or political leaders to make enlargement dependent on a single institutional/constitutional solution. the absorption capacity factor is increasingly one of the key criteria. the prospect of accession and the eu's neighbourhood policy have been factors in the democratization and development of potential candidates, but this is not enough. the eu must be able to welcome new partners and this must be understood in a logic of guaranteeing the same conditions to those who arrive and not in a selfish perspective of those who already belong. this is a logic of responsibility in the face of the need to get european citizens to join the enlargement process.
in writing. a resolution was adopted yesterday establishing the so-called human rights council to replace the commission on human rights. this is a process characterized by the active intervention of the united states in order to create an instrument which can be manipulated in order to give cover to its policy of interference and aggression against sovereign peoples and states. a process in which the united states, steadily raising the bar, sought to impose as many of its demands as possible. the u.s. wanted worse, and that's the only reason they voted against it. among many other changes and aspects which it is worth examining in greater depth, it should be noted that, compared with the previous commission, the new council's membership has been reduced from 53 to 47 countries (the usa wanted 30). the un general assembly elects its members by an absolute majority of its members (the us and the eu wanted a voting system in which, with their allies, they could have veto power), although some attempts have been made to introduce conditionalities. this is a process, considered by some to be only the first step, which is part of the wider ambition of domination and instrumentalization of the un by the us and its allies.
in writing. in the context of the vote on the joint resolution on the 62nd session of the united nations commission on human rights (unchr, geneva), i feel i should make a note here of what i consider to be a possible but not ideal solution to one of the most significant aspects of the discussion. one of the un's greatest failures in the field of human rights has always been the lack of legitimacy of some of its members in the commission on human rights, particularly when they chaired it. the list is well known, it is not worth mentioning here. the solution found, namely the method of electing the members of the future human rights council, does not guarantee that this will not happen again, but it is nevertheless an effort to give its members effective legitimacy, which must be recognized. i also think that this is the occasion to reinforce the idea that the member states of the european union and their allies should strive to set an example in the field of human rights, both within their own countries and in their international relations.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution, although we consider that some aspects are not clear and do not have much coherence. but we think it is important to defend biological diversity, to have the widest possible global agreement on the protection of biodiversity, which is expressed in the convention on biological diversity. it is therefore important that the european union and the member states have a correct position at the conference of the parties to be held at the end of the month in curitiba, brazil. but we know that just as important or even more important is the need to halt the loss of biodiversity by integrating the objectives of the convention into development policy, in particular into community policies, including agricultural and forestry, by not opening the way to gmos, but by supporting family farming and traditional forestry, which are the most important defenders of biodiversity. the protection of marine biodiversity from destructive practices is also required, by supporting coastal and traditional fisheries, which are the best protectors of biodiversity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
author. - mr president, we are appalled in europe that the survivors of the genocide orchestrated by slobodan milosevic cannot see him sentenced in the hague. in africa, the victims of human rights abusers and war criminals also have a right to justice and are crying out for it. they are called hissène habré, charles taylor, mengistu haile mariam or robert mugabe. the other day, in the committee on human rights of this parliament, we heard a lawyer from chad stress this point in relation to the dictator hissène habré, who has been a refugee in senegal for years. this lawyer supported his extradition to belgium, where a court requires it at the request of the victims. he also explained that extradition was necessary because there were unfortunately no mechanisms, and especially no political will, within the framework of the african union to try this criminal responsible for the political murder of more than 40 000 of his compatriots and for the torture and imprisonment of many more. he also explained that the senegalese authorities' referral to the african union was not intended to contribute to justice, preserving african dignity, but to impede justice and thus further offend the dignity of the victims who are demanding the trial of hissène habré. mr president, commissioner, i was recently in senegal where i spoke to human rights activists, senegalese parliamentarians and journalists. unfortunately, they all confirmed the same perception: the european union has responsibilities in africa and that is why we have adopted this resolution today, so that the portuguese governments can influence and ask that the impunity of all these criminals in africa not continue.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the council statement on the criteria for european union peacekeeping operations, in particular in the democratic republic of congo.
on behalf of the pse group. other the situation in the democratic republic of congo presents tremendous challenges to all of us in the european union who take seriously the 'responsibility to protect' enshrined in the last un high level summit in september 2005. the conflict that has ravaged the democratic republic of congo and the entire great lakes region is the bloodiest since world war ii. it has already caused 4 million deaths, the overwhelming majority of them civilians. real and lasting stability in this country is a fundamental condition for peace in the great lakes and in central africa in general and it is in this context that the united nations, which has the largest peacekeeping mission in its history in congo, has called on the european union to contribute to the peaceful conduct of the elections on 18 june, which will be observed by a mission headed by our colleague, mr philipe morillon, a mission which we will all support in this parliament. from the perspective of the european socialists, these elections represent the 'h' hour for the congo. either the transitional institutions born in the context of civil war are replaced by democratically elected institutions or, most likely, congo will continue to be at the mercy of bloody militias. but these elections and the challenge posed by the united nations are also a moment of truth for the european union. does european security and defence policy deserve credibility? can the member states be counted on to implement the european security strategy? i would like to stress three points in the joint resolution we tabled. this intervention must be seen as part of a temporary solution to the problem of internal instability in the country, which will only be resolved when the congolese army becomes a factor of stability. as has been clear from recent congolese army operations in catanga, the population still has reason to doubt the ability of the central government to protect them from the militias. the international community must invest more in consolidating the integrated brigades that already exist and accelerate the creation of new ones. without rapid improvements in the security sector, the union and the un may unfortunately be called upon to intervene in the congo many more times. secondly, it is important that the political legitimacy of this mission is a decisive factor in its success. in this respect it is essential that it be a genuine european mission - and in this respect we welcome the news of the solid participation of several member states led by germany and including also my country, portugal - and that it be a mission backed by the united nations security council. it is also essential that it is clear to all actors, both internal and external, that this mission is welcomed by the current congolese government and, finally, it is essential that the design of this mission reflects a genuine willingness on the part of the european union to support the electoral process with the inherent risks. the priority and objective of the presence of the european forces is clearly to contribute in a visible and credible way to the stability of the congolese electoral process. this is what the people of the congo and africa expect from us.
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the following is the oral question to the council on the revision of the cotonou agreement and the fixing of the amount of the 10th edf, tabled by mrs margrietus van den berg on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation (o-0004/2006 - b6-0006/2006).
the problems caused to portuguese farmers by the bad agricultural year due to the extreme drought conditions last year, were aggravated by the unilateral termination by the government of agri-environmental measures contracted in 2005 with farmers and co-financed by the european union in 85%. this situation is also an example of the consequences of applying the irrational criteria of the stability pact, which leads to blind budget cuts to keep the deficit under control, regardless of the economic and social problems it causes, including preventing the use of community funds that were missing in the portuguese budget, as the government has said, for the 15% of the national share. so one of the questions is when these irrational criteria of the stability pact will be put to the test and the other is whether the commission has any solution to this problem to alleviate the situation of portuguese farmers.
when the european parliament gave the signal for a second debate on the european constitution in its resolution of january on the reflection period, it made it clear that europe is waiting for the parties. the challenge is understandable. europe must become more and more political and must not do without a strong, active and responsible party structure. parties have a key role to play in achieving europe's ambition and improving the quality of european democracy. bridging citizens and power; boosting european public opinion; supporting civic engagement and participation. the role of european political parties is indeed, and should be, far from being merely parliamentary and representative. incomprehensibly, the european political parties have not strengthened themselves in the same proportion and at the same pace as the european parliament. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind. and yet, never in its evolution has europe called so much on the dynamic nature of parties. the question of the european constitution, for example, is a case of the dramatic absence of parties in a debate which has so far been confined to purely institutional matters. because europe is waiting for the role of political parties, it is urgent to strengthen party structures as soon as possible by creating a single european statute for european political parties. a statute which strengthens democratic control, which encourages political competition within the european parliament but which also frees european parties from a strictly parliamentary function so that they can be conceived in connection with the various dynamics of the european public sphere. and, of course, the strengthening of political parties requires a single statute, legal personality based on european law, capacity for autonomous responsibility, strengthening of the structures for party reflection, adequate funding and real power to define political priorities. that is why the leinen report aims at much more than an accounting reform of the life of european political parties. the report points to a new way of understanding the strategic role of political parties and their importance in structural solutions to a persistent european democratic deficit. a structural solution means streamlining the political market, greater links between european and national political parties, and attractiveness of european politics, including the european electoral system. the report also contributes to a certain european-level party consciousness so that we who have organized ourselves by taking responsibility for the world realise that these organizations have now also acquired a new scale. this responsibility is growing in these new founding moments of europe, such as the constitution and enlargement, and they require a new political practice, they require a reinterpretation of the role of the institutions, of the citizens and of the parties.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i would first like to congratulate mr bushill-matthews on the excellent work he has done and the good cooperation we have established in the drafting of our respective reports. in 2003, the natural growth rate of the european population was 0.04%. between 2005 and 2030, it is projected to lose more than 20 million people. by 2025, the population of the european union is expected to grow slightly due to immigration, but is then expected to decline again. immigration is only a partial solution. europeans do not have the number of children they want. studies reveal that on average they would like to have 2.3 children, but they only have 1.5. this number is insufficient to replenish the population. some causes of low birth rates are late or unstable access to employment, expensive housing, late age at which parents have their first child, lack of tax incentives and family benefits, insufficient parental leave, lack of childcare and other dependent care facilities, gender pay gap, difficulty in reconciling family and working life. demographer phillip longman reveals that in europe it is conservative christians and muslims who are having more children, which will lead to a change in the composition of society. what can be done to change the situation? phillipe logman suggests: sweden has managed to increase its birth rates by strengthening social benefits and building day care centres and nurseries; in italy, where it is very difficult to get a loan, it might help if home loans were made easier. one thing is certain, there is in most member states a strong correlation between high female employment rates and high birth rates and the reverse is also true.
on behalf of the pse group. the importance of the subject under discussion is undeniable. much of europe is ageing. with rare exceptions, birth rates are low. several social protection, solidarity and social security systems are most threatened with their sustainability. immigration from outside europe has apparently brought about a balance in the employment rates of some member states, but there are social consequences which must be considered, both in terms of social integration and in the area of family support. the discussion of demographic challenges has gained new weight with the emergence of the current scandinavian realizations of the european social model. combining productivity gains and competitiveness gains with strong female participation in the labour market is very important. at the same time, fertility rates have increased and, in the meantime, there are greater facilities for paternity leave and better maternity supports. in the european context, every effort must therefore be made in each member state to reconcile work and family life, in particular by negotiated flexibility of working hours and more appropriate and widespread childcare facilities. on the other hand, it is necessary to deepen mutual knowledge of the different social security systems and to ensure flexibility in the transition from one national system to another, whether public, private or of another type, for example mutualist. this is very important for workers who are covered by social security in a particular member state, who should find their lives made easier when they return to their country of origin or when they move to another member state for a new job. there is also a great deal of effort being made to modernise social protection systems while encouraging what is known as active ageing. all this was discussed by the rapporteurs bushill-matthews, edite estrela and all the members of the committees who have worked seriously in this field. i would conclude by saying that, in short, the demographic challenges facing europe today are serious, but there are answers to these challenges. we are also able to contribute to ensuring more effective solidarity between generations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the demographic changes in the european union are, in general, a civilizational gain and not a problem. it is thanks to improved living conditions and health care that there is a longer life expectancy which naturally creates new challenges that must be taken into account. some of these challenges - and which are not adequately addressed by the commission in the green paper - are the importance of sexual and reproductive health, the inclusion of a gender perspective in all analyses and policies aimed at promoting the dignity of women in all areas, the improvement of the living conditions of the population and greater economic and social inclusion and cohesion. the proposals put forward by our group therefore stress the need for job stability, safety at the workplace and shorter working hours to allow for greater integration of both young and older workers into well-paid work, giving workers time to devote more attention to their families, more support for their children and their own lifelong learning. what is really important for managing demographic change is therefore employment with rights, a more equal distribution of income, strong public social security based on solidarity between generations, quality public services, particularly in areas such as health, education, housing and social protection. in other words, what we are proposing is the opposite of the path being followed, from priority to competition and liberalism, from increasingly precarious and poorly paid work, to unemployment, to the privatisation of public services and the trampling on labour rights. we therefore insist that a clear change in these policies is required.
i would also like to congratulate and welcome the work of our colleague neil parish on this report. i consider this initiative to be of the utmost importance, focusing on a current problem which requires a great deal of effort from all of us. firstly, i believe that non-food crops can make an important contribution to the european energy sector which is currently being considered. the need to ensure the european union's energy security and greater external autonomy is becoming more urgent. i think that the use of biofuels can make a good contribution to this. secondly, the promotion of non-food crops will be an added value from the agricultural point of view, especially in the case of energy crops, which could offer new hope for the future of european agriculture and the cap, which has been so misunderstood. in a bleak future for european food production, given the difficulty of competing with countries with lower social and environmental concerns that allow low-cost production, the search for alternatives to keep agriculture alive is urgent.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, which gave the consumer protection programme autonomy, contrary to the european commission's attempt to have a single programme covering health too. in addition to this important difference in substance, which we support, the report introduces significant improvements both in terms of areas to be covered, global funds to be considered and increased sharing of operating expenses of european consumer organisations representing the interests of consumers. although we would have liked to have gone further in some respects, we hope that the european commission and the council will now take parliament's position into account.
in writing. as the resolution states, the energy dependence of the 25 member states of the european union is very high, reaching 48% in 2002 and could increase to 71% in 2030 if no further action is taken. some data are clearly illustrative: - imports meet 76.6% of oil demand, 53% of gas demand, 35.4% of coal demand and almost 100% of uranium and uranium products demand; - gross electricity production in the eu-25 is divided between: nuclear energy (31%), solid fuels, especially coal (25%), natural gas (18%), renewable energy sources (14%) and oil (5%); - final energy use is about 28% for the industrial sector; 31% in the transport sector and 41% in the buildings sector. we therefore know that measures are needed, including increased cooperation, research, public policies and appropriate investment, to reduce the dependence of member states and increase energy efficiency. but we are not following up on several of the proposals contained in the resolution, in particular the commitment to liberalization of the sector, to giving priority to competition, to the internal energy market, since this path can only lead to the strengthening of economic and financial groups, without improving the situation of the countries with the weakest economies and their populations.
in writing. the commission's green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy provides a correct analysis of the problems of energy supply which have become so evident in recent times. what we may call the 'energy question' is the expected result of economic progress, associated with the limited production/transformation capacity of traditional energy sources. the most serious problem is that these elements of the equation are unlikely to be changed. the economic growth of giants like brazil, russia, india and china is a predictable and fortunately irreversible fact. on the other hand, even if some production/processing capacity is increased - assuming that refinery capacity is resolved in a timely manner - the finiteness of these resources is, however, irreversible. i also have serious doubts about the immediate effectiveness of demand reduction unless this process is promoted at the level of production of goods, equipment, transport and buildings. at the same time, i believe that this discussion is only realistic if, alongside renewable energies, nuclear energy is included in the debate. finally, i support the green paper and the resolution when they bring security into this debate.
in writing. africa is a very desirable fruit. the exploitation of its immense resources and its domination are ambitious for the main capitalist powers, see the increase in the presence, operations and military bases of the usa, france, great britain or germany on this continent. the military intervention in the democratic republic of congo is imbued with this logic, paving the way for further military operations in the future. it is worth noting that this is the second eu-led operation in the country, following the so-called "artemis" operation with french troops in 2003. instead of seeking to promote an end to the illegal exploitation of natural resources, including by companies from eu countries, and an end to external interference in this country; instead of responding to the united nations' requests for humanitarian aid; instead of promoting and financially supporting the process of disarmament and economic and social development, ensuring that the exploitation of natural resources is carried out by and for the benefit of the people of this country; the major powers of the eu - france and germany, with which the portuguese government is associated - are sending more troops to a country where more than 15 000 military personnel are already stationed within the framework of monuc. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. our vote against is consistent with the position we have taken on european political parties. it is true that there is a huge gap between citizens and the european institutions, but the solution is to create more european parties or increase the funding of existing ones. each national party must continue to have every opportunity to organise itself autonomously, including its participation in the union and its european parliament. what is needed to motivate citizens to take a greater part in politics, also at community level, is a profound change in the neoliberal policies, the end of the stability pact, the withdrawal of the so-called bolkestein directive, the replacement of the lisbon strategy by a genuine strategy of solidarity, sustainable development and social cohesion. what is needed is more quality and entitled employment, better public services, more investment that creates jobs and greater social inclusion, accompanied by a fairer distribution of the wealth produced.
in writing. europe is facing an unprecedented demographic problem. in 2030, the eu will have 18 million fewer young people than it has today, and in 2050, 60 million fewer inhabitants. between 2005 and 2030, the number of people aged over 65 will increase by 52.3% (+ 40 million), while the 15-64 age group will decrease by 6.8% (- 21 million). the ratio between inactive people (young, elderly and other dependants) and people of working age will increase from 49% in 2005 to 66% in 2030. this development is due to two factors: the extension of life expectancy and the decrease in the birth rate. on the one hand, the average life expectancy at 60 has increased since 1960 by five years for women and almost four years for men, and therefore the number of people over 80 will increase by 180% between now and 2050. on the other hand, the fertility rate has been declining. it was 1.48 children per woman in 2003, when it would have required at least 2.1 children per woman to maintain the population level. i am aware of the consequences of these factors on prosperity, living conditions and the relationship between generations, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the rapporteur says, and we agree, that 'the production of renewable raw materials and the use of organic waste can contribute to improving the environment, sustainable energy production, job creation and regional balance, as well as to greater diversification and autonomy of multifunctional agriculture'. however, we believe it is necessary to draw attention to existing capacities in the field of energy alternatives and the relationship between energy, the environment and agriculture - for the ultimate benefit of citizens and their quality of life, as well as for the economic sectors involved - in the context of sustainable development. we believe, however, that an appropriate balance should be struck between food and energy crops to ensure that food sovereignty and food security are not put at risk. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this would make these products dependent on the energy industry and the rules of the world trade organisation (wto). that is why i abstained.
the ultimate aim of competition policy is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, through it, the provision of quality goods and services at affordable prices to the general european consumer. we have seen a series of concentrations in the internal market which have created natural monopolies in essential goods and services. the european commission's assessment of the situation, although formally correct, is often inconsistent with these objectives in practice, particularly in the case of public services. at a time of renewed protectionist sentiment, europe must give its citizens the assurance that it is able, above all, to ensure the provision of essential goods and services safely, on a universal basis and at the lowest cost. it is not enough, therefore, to deepen the internal market. it must be accompanied at least by better regulatory capacity. community regulation must be effective and asymmetries in the size of member states must not be an additional factor in distorting competition. the confidence of european citizens in the completion of the internal market also depends on the guarantee that their most essential interests will be better protected. it is therefore important to update the existing rules in the light of the objectives we are seeking to achieve.
madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we regard the right of access to documents as one of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the european union has made more and more documents available to the public, but there have been a number of problems, mainly related to the inadequate application of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. the european parliament has therefore been reiterating, and rightly insisting, on the need to review this regulation, calling for an improvement and a strengthening of the union's legislation on transparency. we do so because it is essential to strengthen citizens' sense of belonging and their attachment to the european project. this calls for a decision-making process based on transparent and open negotiations and for loyal cooperation between the institutions without undesirable secrecy. this amended regulation should therefore provide the legal basis for the establishment of standards, best practices and interinstitutional agreements aimed at improving the drafting of legislative texts and ensuring access to them. i fully agree with mr cashman who has once again done a remarkable job in saying that the fact that the european parliament does not have a clear legal basis for accessing classified information of the european union is contrary to the democratic principle on which the union is founded. it is also regrettable that there is no common approach to the three institutions on how to manage, share and store the various types of documents. there is no denying that improvements have been made, but there is still a very large lack of coordination between the institutions, particularly with regard to documents relating to interinstitutional proceedings. there should also be clear rules on access to documents of an administrative nature. i would like to conclude, mr president, with a note which now particularly concerns me as chairman of the temporary committee examining cia flights, concerning the fact that i have to regret that the whole problem of access to documents classified by the member states and forwarded by them to the council is being omitted.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the integrated guidelines for employment growth contain at their heart the main obstacles to an effective employment policy which gives priority to the creation of quality employment, jobs with rights, social and territorial cohesion and the well-being of people. the priority is to guarantee economic stability, to extend and deepen the internal market, to ensure that markets are open and competitive, to create a more attractive business environment. all of this is heavenly music for the economic and financial groups, for the masters of international trade who, benefiting from the exploitation of cheap labour in third countries, prefer to bet on the enormous gains resulting from the relocation of production rather than maintaining and developing jobs with rights in the countries of the european union. in addition, the actual employment guidelines are too vague and overlook key areas, namely the need to increase women's participation in the labour market, guaranteeing them quality and entitled jobs, and combating the wage and career discrimination to which they are still subject, and not creating precarious and low-paid work, as is the case today. the same applies to promoting regional economies, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation in regions with high unemployment rates. it is also essential to support families, both in terms of the reorganisation and reduction of working hours without loss of rights and in terms of investment in public family support services, which would also help to create more jobs adapted to local and regional needs. it is therefore urgent to promote greater public investment in health, housing and ensuring access to free, high-quality education and training. we therefore put forward a proposal which seeks to add these guidelines to the proposals presented, since we consider it essential that they be included in the employment guidelines.
mr president, at a time when the phenomenon of globalisation is determining many aspects of the economic and social systems of all our countries, we must be aware that any obstacle which limits the free movement of people, goods, capital and services is a serious obstacle to competitiveness, growth and job creation. it is a pure illusion to think that restricting freedom of movement within the european union can protect the interests of a given country. this kind of attitude may reassure some in the short term, but it will never be the solution to the challenges facing the european union. at a time when the world is becoming increasingly globalised, europe should increase its critical mass capacity, which means, first of all, greater liberalisation of markets. we know that the demographic situation on the european continent and the phenomenon of globalisation mean that a whole series of reforms of the social and economic models of many member states of the european union are needed. the higher the european economic growth, the easier it will be to implement these reforms, but for this growth to take place, the complementary functioning of the internal market is necessary and essential. as long as europe grows at rates of 1, 2 or even 3%, it is very difficult to implement these reforms, which are so necessary for peace and social stability in the european union. i would therefore like to stress that the complete completion of the internal market, apart from the undeniable economic component, contains within itself a very important and decisive element of social policy. this is another reason why i support the efforts which the european commission has been making in this field. a final word on the free movement of workers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new member states are able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations made by mr garcia-margallo, whom i welcome and congratulate, come at an important moment for the economic situation in the european union. they just need to be taken into account. in the present context, it is less correct to speak of the revision of the lisbon strategy, but rather of its deepening, because what is at stake today, and has always been from the beginning, is the increase in economic growth and more employment, both generators of long-term sustainability of social models and propitious, in the short term, of adequate social cohesion. despite recent progress, the essential issues remain untouched. unemployment is at an unbearable level and global economic growth is insufficient to reverse the situation. more integration, better coordination of economic policies and a change in the role of the institutions which form the economic government of the union are therefore needed. the european council decided to support the commission in drawing up a common european energy policy. this decision, while interesting, is still not enough. the union's energy dependence is unsustainable. oil imports now account for 2.3% of the union's gnp, which is two and a half times the budget for all european policies. by 2030, dependence could be stifling, particularly in the oil sector (94% external dependence). the simple agreements between member states to which the council is referring are therefore insufficient. the creation of a common energy policy requires increased competition. a common regulation requires, above all, a lot of investment to improve existing networks and to restart real progress in the field of alternative energies and energy saving. all this is essential for increasing competitiveness and sustainable development.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mrs anne laperrouze, on her strong and timely recommendation for a second reading on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council laying down guidelines for transeuropean energy networks. i agree with the rapporteur and support her position that the proposal under discussion should include provisions introducing the declaration of european interest and the possibility of appointing a european coordinator for these matters. these are measures which are indispensable to the completion of a genuine internal market in gas and electricity and which will ensure security of supply. i would also like to recall the positions expressed in the last european councils on these matters.
in writing. we have a unique opportunity to demonstrate to the citizens our willingness to develop a genuine european energy policy. it is therefore necessary to provide ourselves with the instruments and resources needed to achieve this objective. the trans-european energy networks will promote interconnection, interoperability and the development of energy networks in the enlarged europe, while stimulating the effective operation of the internal market. the construction of the internal market for gas and electricity for the future is perhaps the most important objective of this proposal for a decision. the adaptation of the guidelines to the european union of 25 member states, the commitments for financing projects of common interest and, above all, the guarantee of security of supply through interconnections between member states and with neighbouring countries - south-east europe, the mediterranean countries, ukraine and belarus - are also essential and correspond in a coherent way to the approach adopted for the trans-european land transport networks. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs anne laperrouze.
in writing. the kovacs report, which we voted on today, on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, although it introduces considerations relating to gender equality and the fight against discrimination, does not call into question what we consider to be the essential issue: the protection of workers' rights. so, taking into account the pnrs submitted by the member states and the measures indicated to meet these guidelines, we have submitted amendments to the report to ensure more concrete and timely guidelines, ensuring effective implementation of women's rights, access to quality public education and training, the creation of stable and entitled jobs and more public investment in health and housing. unfortunately, the majority of parliament rejected our proposals and we could not therefore vote in favour of the report, although we welcome some amendments tabled by the committee on employment and social affairs. that is why we abstained on the report and voted against the legislative resolution on the employment guidelines, which appear to be subordinated to clearly liberal economic guidelines.
in writing. the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, in my view, challenge the european union to respond to some essential employment issues by focusing its concerns, correctly, on the issue of those excluded from labour markets (in particular young people, older people and other citizens excluded from labour markets, whether in their own countries or in other member states). i believe, however, that there is a way to go between challenging the community and national institutions and advocating concrete and effective solutions. the debate on employment policies necessarily has a european dimension which should not be ignored. this has been a constant concern of mine as a member of the european parliament, precisely because i believe that it is necessary to develop reformist synergies in the european area and that the european parliament is one of the institutions best suited to this purpose.
in writing. the primacy of competition is one of the pillars of the internal market and has justified the process of liberalisation/privatisation in strategic sectors such as energy, transport and communications, which was accelerated from 2000 onwards with the adoption of the lisbon strategy. it is clear that what has been achieved so far has not only failed to bring the promised price reductions, improved access and quality of services or even the end of monopolies, but has, on the contrary, contributed to worsening unemployment resulting from restructuring/mergers in these sectors and the loss of state sovereignty over strategic areas. while the report states that it aims to combat dominant positions and monopolies, it accepts the guidelines of the commission's 2004 report, focusing on energy and telecommunications, and reiterates the full liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors, a priority of the spring 2006 council. in the communications sector, which is already largely liberalized, the emphasis is on competition in the broadband sector and the logic of internationalising production activities, with increasing emphasis on the relocation of production or parts of the production chain. we voted against all of this.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague michael cashman on the important report containing recommendations to the commission on access to texts of the institutions, which i support, in particular as regards the need for the commission to submit to the european parliament in 2006 a legislative proposal on 'the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents and the general principles and limits governing the exercise of the right of access to such documents for reasons of public or private interest', which should be prepared in interinstitutional debates and follow the detailed recommendations. we also share the view that the new rules on access to documents should apply from the entry into force of the amended regulation without retroactive effect.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war. the consequences of further trade liberalization - if the present contradictions are overcome or the positions which some of the so-called developing countries have been defending until now are weakened - would be extremely negative for workers and peoples in general. the example of services: the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules in the member states by 28 february. this means that in these sectors restrictions on foreign investment, on the establishment and cross-border provision of services, on nationality requirements or on restrictions on competition are to be abolished. in other words, the demand for the abolition of mechanisms which are fundamental for the economically less (or more) developed states to be able to ensure their development by responding to the needs of their peoples, to the chagrin of the large economic and financial groups in the eu and the us, in their exploitative and inhuman vortex.
in writing. the papastamkos report on the wto ministerial conference in hong kong obliges us to reflect on two points. first, it should not be difficult to see that international trade has a unique potential to promote development and prosperity. on the one hand, the more trade transactions, the greater the level of dependence and cooperation between states. on the other hand, the more intensive international trade, the greater the economic prosperity of the different countries, thus contributing not only to the improvement of the living conditions of the populations, but also to a safer world. secondly, it is clear that those who want a world where there is more trade and fairer trade and more respect for the rules will hardly leave this summit satisfied. as 2006 progresses, we are further and further away from the objective of successfully completing the round started in 2001 by the end of this year. i therefore believe that the eu should take a leading role, provide encouragement and seek agreement. but for that to be possible, we ourselves need to agree on the benefits of free trade and the rules to which that free trade must be subject.
in writing. another report on the economic situation! another reaffirmation of the fallacies! more of the same in the solutions presented! the economic and social situation remains precarious, with growing inequalities, unacceptable levels of poverty and unemployment, while economic growth remains slow and fragile. the dominance of the financial sector over the real economy is noted, the need to ensure confidence through the strict application of monetary policy by the ecb and the stability pact is reaffirmed, and the need to reduce taxes on businesses is affirmed. these are positions of the purest liberalism, which we can only reject. in the name of globalisation, workers' rights and social security are called into question, greater flexibility is imposed on labour markets (with the new magical concept of 'flexicurity', of which the cpe in france is the first example), the increase in the age of effective and official retirement is justified, the liberalisation of the energy sector is insisted on and the liberalisation of services is called for, contributing to labour deregulation and social and environmental dumping. it's a regaboof for the economic and financial groups. the problems always fall on the same people: the workers and the most deprived. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. the broad economic policy guidelines for 2006 deserve my agreement on the substance of its concerns and recommendations. we live in a time when the debate must focus on taking concrete decisions that make the economic environment more conducive to growth, employment, competition, innovation and wealth creation, and we must refrain from spending our energies on what is incidental or, equally serious, on what should be obvious. the member states of the european union, and in particular their political leaders, have a duty to promote a political environment favourable to economic reforms. a speech of truth, courage and results is urgently needed. let us dare to challenge our societies to invest in the future and in themselves and be able to create the conditions for this investment. the future is not necessarily scary. and yet most european governments seem to fear it. it is because it is against such talk, because it is presented as a challenge to action with concrete aims and objectives - with which i largely agree - that this report deserves my support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 may. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0017/2006). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
member of the commission. yes, one needs to draw a distinction, because we are speaking here of deep-sea gill nets, which are normally used very selectively, and therefore we do not want to discourage the use of this type of gear. however, if nothing is done, such fishing for an extensive period of time causes significant damage. therefore, we want to curtail the abuse of the use of gill nets, not their proper use. so, on the one hand, given that the use of gill nets is quite selective as a gear, we would not want to discourage that; but on the other hand, we certainly want to discourage the abuse of gill nets, as that would create so-called ‘ghost nets’, which continue to be used for fishing for a period of a month or so, causing significant damage to the species concerned.
member of the commission. i would like to remind the honourable member that the negotiations on the new ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement are concluded and that the commission and the moroccan government initialled the draft agreement in july 2005. with respect to its territorial application, the text of the new agreement is no different from the previous agreement, which ended in 2000. with regard to the honourable member’s specific question, i would like to point out that the polisario front is not formally accredited with the european community. there is no formal policy dialogue between the commission and the polisario front. concerning fisheries negotiations, the commission has been authorised by the council to negotiate with the kingdom of morocco. it has no mandate to extend the negotiations to third parties. in the framework of the preparations for the negotiation of the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, the commission thoroughly evaluated the political, legal and economic implications of an eventual agreement. in this case, as in others, the commission is taking care to avoid a situation where the conclusion of new agreements in the field of fisheries could become a factor in international disputes or conflicts. regarding the issue of the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement and the question of western sahara, the commission took special care to fully respect the relevant principles of international law and support the efforts of the united nations in finding an appropriate solution with regard to western sahara. the content of the initial text, as in the case of the previous fisheries agreement, does not in any way prejudice the issue related to the international status of western sahara. the commission is convinced that the new ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement is in conformity with international law and with the opinion of the un legal advisor of 29 january 2002. the commission’s view with regard to the geographical scope of the agreement has been confirmed and endorsed by the opinion of the council’s legal service and the european parliament’s legal service.
author. in the context of the european union's development policy, the european union has decided to provide funding for refugee camps for the sarawi people run by the polisario front in the western sahara area. i would therefore like to stress once again that the european commission, in its approach to the western sahara problem, intends to ask the polisario front what it thinks of this agreement, since it has profound implications for western sahara.
questions 48 to 59 will be answered in writing.
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 60 by mr bernd posselt (h-0210/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: introduction of the euro in the ten new member states what is the commissioner's view on the current state of preparations and timetable for the introduction of the euro in the 10 new member states that joined the eu on 1 may 2004? question no 61 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0222/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: entry of new eu member states into the euro area according to press opinions and official statements, the level of preparation of the new eu member states for the introduction of the euro is assessed not only in terms of the maastricht criteria but also in terms of the country's general economic development. in particular, it was announced that slovenia, having a higher gdp per capita than lithuania and estonia, could be invited to join the euro area, and that the latter two countries would not be accepted even if they met the maastricht criteria, including the inflation rate. are these statements well-founded? can the commission state clearly whether the decision on the accession of the new member states to the euro area will be based on the maastricht criteria alone and not on any other criteria?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments. other what defines european identity is the combination of the universal values of human dignity with the many particular traditions. this identity, which is after all a way of life, is given a boost by the citizens for europe programme which is being discussed here today. the programme contributes to an ethical awareness of the world, which is the deepest sense of european citizenship. the programme paves the way for a political model of cooperation between citizens and european institutions. it is a step towards citizens becoming participants in the european political process. that is why the programme bears the hallmark of an essential strategy. europe is destined to become political, to cease being a market and become a public forum for deliberation. but mobilizing for european citizenship is also a major challenge for the institutions. citizens' policy calls on the european institutions to become more political too. the question of european citizenship is really the question of how the institutions promote the public's interest in european politics. the need for institutional reform in europe and for new rules of the game, which can bring together the attention and control of citizens, is clear. the need for a political centre capable of attracting a european public sphere is clear. but a political centre with the power to attract a public sphere is only possible in a europe which is politicised in all its structures. in citizenship. at the parties. the relationship between institutions. perhaps the european public debate is waiting to be dramatized. perhaps the european public debate is waiting for a constituent moment and a constitution.
let us start with the name of the programme: 'citizens for europe' or 'europe for the citizens'? the difference is not the result of a lapse in the commission's powers. it is a consequence of the culture which dominates the european institutions. there will be no new citizens for europe as long as the europe of the institutions continues to fuel social and identity fractures with its policies. no citizenship program is gonna fix this divorce. but if he, from the name, is the reflection of the autism that lives above, then much worse! so i applaud the name change, although i would like the coherence that is still missing. i would therefore like to stress three points: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. the rapporteur has opted for compromise, seeking to improve the position of the second option. i would have been more radical. i have nothing against big events, but i have everything against lying. the greatest virtue of this programme is that it can be implemented by associative networks which, on the ground, feed citizenship. any deviation from this option perverts the very idea of citizenship. it is therefore also not sustainable to try to allocate a substantial amount of support to six institutions, which are now eight, without any kind of competition. the normal procedure in any civilized society is the selection of projects through transparent competitions. the opposite is the law of lobbies, of arrangements and of favors. in this particular case, last-minute arrangements were made to accommodate two more organisations. i am not judging its merits, i am criticising the complete lack of merit of this form of granting. what should be a lesson in european citizenship is the exact opposite. contests are opened and the expectation is that the exemption will reward the merit of the competitors. the last question: the question concerning the problem of memory. with the entry of the new eastern countries, the idea of associating the victims of the holocaust with the memory of the victims of stalinism was born. all right, but the rest is missing. the memory of the victims of fascism in the countries of southern europe is missing. the citizenship perspective can only be one: that of respect for the pain of the victims, their families and descendants. there can be no other criteria. even today, in portugal, a citizens' movement is fighting to prevent the former political police headquarters from being turned into a luxury condominium, instead of a museum. each one brings to europe his memories. it is with these, with all of them, that memory can be turned into a factor of citizenship. fascism was a totalitarianism. it is european.
the agreement reached in the trilogue on the financial perspective is bad because it means a cut of some eur 108 billion compared with the original proposal of the european parliament. the proposed 1.05% of gni for commitment expenditure is well below the 1.21% proposed by the european commission and the 1.18% proposed by the european parliament. the european parliament, following the agreement reached in the european council in december 2005, put forward a negotiating proposal that called for an additional €12 billion, of which about €4 billion was obtained - largely financed by redistributions of funds from other headings - and for priorities (lisbon strategy and cfsp) other than the structural and cohesion funds, in particular to fully compensate statistical effect regions such as the algarve. the agreed funds are clearly insufficient to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation in the enlarged eu, where inequalities have increased and the need for cohesion is increased. we voted against parliament's proposal in june because it was insufficient to guarantee economic and social cohesion, because it penalized the cohesion countries and because it assumed the priorities enshrined in the so-called 'european constitution'. for the same reasons we can only be against this new agreement.
when we look at the conclusions of this spring summit and compare them with the real situation of our economies and societies, we can only say that the gap between policies and citizens is widening. where are the practical measures for the need to double economic growth and employment with rights in order to reach the 2000 levels? where are the answers to unemployment, which affects 18.5% of young people under 25 and about 10% of women in the labour force? where are the answers to the growth of precarious and low-paid work, when we know that some 32% of employed women work only part-time and that over 43% of young people in employment have only a temporary contract, with no prospects for the future? the fact is that not only is there no answer, but the few and vague commitments made in terms of employment, without any reference to their quality or to the concrete measures to achieve it, are the biggest symptom that social tensions are going to worsen in several countries of the european union. it is particularly shocking that there is no response to poverty affecting more than 15% of the population, that there is no recognition that this is a serious violation of human rights and that social inclusion should therefore be at the centre of the concerns and policies of the commission, the council and the member states, as opposed to what is happening at present. that is why i am here to challenge you: we must change our course, we must change the situation and we must insist on policies of economic and social cohesion.
in my view, the challenges facing europe today have been well identified by the european council: globalisation, demography, the key sectors of the european economy such as energy and services, research and development, innovation, education, employment and growth. what, though, is the feeling? if, on the one hand, remarkable progress has been made in the field of energy, progress which was unthinkable just six months ago, there have been other areas where, unfortunately, progress has not been made as far. why would you do that? the lisbon strategy has an original sin in that the european commission has not been given the role of mobilizing agent and main pivot of this strategy. the commission has now made an effort and that is why it has taken a step forward. however, you have to go further. the member states must give the commission the responsibility and the means to make this leap possible, since it is so necessary. in this connection i cannot help but say that we deeply welcome the support given to the european institute of technology, since it is pointless to have 25 european research policies which are not directly geared to the fundamental objective - the knowledge economy - and which still lack the means and the critical mass to be able to compete with other more developed economies. so if we want to give a clear signal today that the lisbon strategy is alive and well and if we want it to be implemented quickly, we must give the commission the means to put into practice this idea, which i consider very important, of the european institute of technology.
in writing. this proposal follows the evaluation of decision 2003/170/jha, which provides for the strengthening and intensification of cooperation between member states in relation to the mandate and the secondment of liaison officers to third countries and international organisations. i agree that the necessary changes should be made to take account of the current practice of using europol liaison officers, so that it becomes binding. the liaison officers of the member states should therefore establish and maintain direct contacts with the local authorities of the host state or the international organisation with the aim of facilitating and speeding up the collection and exchange of information, which should in turn be transmitted to europol. the aim is to contribute to the creation of a european spirit of cooperation between police authorities, i.e. a community approach to the tasks entrusted to seconded officers and a direct exchange of information between them and the europol central agency, in order to increase the coherence and effectiveness of the tasks of these officers, avoiding any problems of lack of coordination, cooperation or even overlaps. i therefore support the rapporteur's amendments and hope that an agreement can be reached at first reading.
in writing. i abstained from the final vote on this report because amendments nos 62 and 63 (which i support) were not adopted. i find it unacceptable that history is being rewritten. the victims of fascism and other dictatorial regimes in europe in the recent past must not be forgotten. voting against amendments nos 62 and 63 is a historical and a political mistake. since the main objective of this new programme is to promote the values, achievements and cultural diversity of europe in order to bring the citizens of the union closer together, by strengthening the links between citizens and the european institutions and by promoting cohesion among europeans, the victims of fascism and the importance of the historic achievement of freedom and democracy, which allowed countries such as portugal to become part of the european project, cannot be overlooked.
in writing. the promotion of citizenship is much more than the strengthening of democracy and political and social integration in europe, which the report claims to defend. the promotion of citizenship involves promoting the participation of citizens in the definition of policies that affect them directly and indirectly, equal opportunities for women and men, the promotion of high-quality and inclusive public education, the right to work and to work with rights, the right to free and quality health care, the right to culture, access to the right, to decent housing, to peace... finally, a list of economic, social and cultural freedoms, guarantees and rights enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic. we consider it of the utmost importance to value the collective memory of peoples as a landmark in the formation of their individual and collective identity, so that we can all be aware of where we come from and define where we want to go. we therefore regret that the report adopted contributes to the adulteration of european history and that the majority of the european parliament has opted for the adulteration of what will be the collective memory on which the identity of present and future generations will be based, rejecting, for example, the proposals concerning support for initiatives commemorating the victims of fascism... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the european citizens are very dissatisfied and are distancing themselves from the institutions and the process of european integration. the rejection of the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands has made this situation even more evident. in this context, the european commission is presenting the 'citizens for europe' programme, which aims to promote european values and active european citizenship. the programme provides for the implementation of actions enabling european citizens to come together to share and exchange experiences, opinions and values, the organisation of debates and reflections on european citizenship, through cooperation between civil society organisations and the organisation of high-profile events, as well as studies, surveys and other information and dissemination tools. in general terms, i agree with the amendments in this report, particularly as regards the title of the programme. the title 'europe for the citizens' reinforces the idea that europe should be the instrument for realising the aspirations of the citizens and not the other way around.
in writing. we all know that the european union is going through a difficult period. we are faced with new challenges on several fronts, with slow economic growth having social consequences and global challenges for which we have not yet found solutions. however, the biggest challenge we face today is the public's opinion of the european project. the increase in scepticism and clear dissatisfaction with the european integration project widen the gap between citizens and policy-makers and force us to rethink the communication of the european democratic institutions. i consider this programme to be an important initiative to raise awareness of european values among all citizens, through various types of civic projects, support for information for european civil society or the organisation of high-profile events and achievements that contribute to a better knowledge of european memory. the european project is a project of respect for cultural diversity and richness, through measures that deepen the cohesion among europeans, so necessary for the completion of the internal market and the sustainable growth and development of our societies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. we voted in favour of the rapporteur's amendments, which improve the european commission's initial proposal and guarantee the defence of portuguese interests, as can be seen in the new wording of article 13, which awards portugal a european capital of culture in 2012. it also simplified the administrative procedures for selecting and monitoring european capitals of culture, ensuring that the evaluation is based on the new, more motivating criteria. as regards the programme, it is clarified that the only requirement is that it be consistent with the national cultural strategy or policy of the member state. it seems to us that the diversity and specific characteristics of the cultural heritage of each of the member states of the european union are thus enhanced, while at the same time enabling a greater dialogue between the various cultures.
in writing. since its inception in 1985, the european capital of culture programme has been helping to bring europe's citizens closer together by highlighting the richness, diversity and characteristics of europe's cultural heritage. the great success of this programme among citizens has contributed to reinforcing the european dimension and to the socioeconomic development of the selected cities. this contribution could evolve exponentially if we take new measures as a basic methodology that will allow us to establish synergies that would otherwise be lost. the creation of an internet portal with information on the cities which are european capitals of culture, the existing networks of contacts and the exchange of experience - a methodology which should be added to all community programmes - is an example of this. i would also like to point out that this programme has inspired, through its innovation and success, proposals that i have put forward and that parliament has approved, with the aim of creating, within the framework of european investment in tourism, a european destination of excellence, which will also contribute to the promotion of europe in the world. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the vote on this report on the transitional arrangements restricting the free movement of workers in the european union labour market is a clear testimony to the contradictions that are here. on the one hand, they say they are in favour of free movement of workers and are opposed to the unfair situation of workers in the new member states. but on the other hand, when you want that free movement to mean equal rights, you vote against it, which means you just want a free movement that allows you to press for lower wages and loss of rights. so, unfortunately, the proposals we put forward were rejected, namely: - considers it essential to put an end to the serious exploitation of workers in several eu countries, resulting from the illegal employment to which many workers from the new member states and some older ones, such as portugal, are subject. - i know . it stressed the need for effective monitoring and continuous action to put an end to discrimination, unequal treatment and illegal work, to defend equal rights for workers and to apply the same labour and social legislation to all workers in a member state, irrespective of their country of origin. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. the report on the transitional regime restricting the free movement of workers in the european union labour market comes at a good time, as it coincides with the announcement of the decision by portugal, spain and finland to end the barriers that have existed since 1 may 2004. the free movement of workers is a fundamental element of the european union, both in its generosity and in its capacity as a real building block for a common area. there was a time when eastern europeans wanted to flee their countries and could not. but now the hope for a better future for their own states is certainly greater and the expectations generated by accession allow us to believe in the development of national economies, as has happened in the past. in addition, the countries which have removed the barriers (the united kingdom, ireland and sweden) have not seen their migratory flows increase substantially compared with the other member states (where there have been some concessions of work permits, mostly temporary), and they claim that these immigrants have had a positive effect on their economy, which is well known.
in writing. we have recently celebrated the 20th anniversary of portugal's accession to the european project. from the outset, portuguese workers found their freedom of movement limited by facing national restrictions imposed by member states which feared a disruption of their respective labour markets. today history is repeating itself and it is the workers of the eight new member states from the east who are going through the same hardships. i voted in favour of this report because it has been shown that, as in 1986, migration from these countries has had beneficial effects on the economies of the member states which have decided to open their labour markets and that there are no longer valid reasons for maintaining such restrictions on freedom of movement. it is also precisely these restrictions that contribute to the increase in illegal work and the exploitation of workers. above all, it is a question of solidarity with the new member states. the eu cannot respond to global challenges with nationalism and protectionism on the part of some of its member states. all european workers are needed to improve the competitiveness of businesses and thus increase the level of economic growth in the eu.
i listened very carefully to mr winkler's answer, but i would like to take up exactly one of the issues he raised, which is that of persecution not only of catholics but also of other religions. i would like to ask you whether the council is aware of the report in the falun gong bulletin that there is a death camp in liaoning province, specifically in sujiatun, where falun gong prisoners are being massacred en masse, and whether the council intends to investigate this very serious allegation of human rights violations in china.
i am indeed sad that this was not raised at the meeting with the prime minister, but i would like to ask the council whether it does not consider that this process of the beirut military court is also a process against europe? it is that what dr mugraby is accused of is answering a question from the european parliament, which is in fact something that calls into question the functioning of our institutions and the possibility of asking questions of people who are willing to cooperate with us. i would therefore like to ask whether the council does not consider this to be serious enough to enforce the human rights clauses which are part of the agreements with lebanon.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, access to health rights is recognised as a fundamental human right. however, as is well known, a large part of the population still lacks such guaranteed access. that is why the un millennium development goals include, inter alia, reducing by two thirds the rate of infant mortality among children under five, reducing by three quarters the rate of maternal mortality, halting and beginning to reverse the spread of aids and the incidence of malaria and other major diseases. many millions of children and women must be prevented from continuing to die because of lack of primary health care, maternal and child health, sexual and reproductive health, water and sanitation infrastructure and basic education, including in the area of health. this requires greater solidarity from the more developed countries. we therefore attach the utmost importance to active support for the training of doctors in developing countries and access to medical training for students in rural and remote areas. in this case, the amazing work, the example of solidarity that cuba provides, by training thousands of doctors and other health personnel for africa and latin america free of charge, should be highlighted. but it is also essential to ensure access to high quality, free public health services for all, including in the various member states of the european union, which is far from being the case because of the macroeconomic guidelines and the stability pact, with some countries experiencing significant setbacks, as is currently the case in portugal, which is exacerbating poverty and social exclusion. we have therefore tabled several amendments to the joint resolution, which we hope will be adopted. on this world health day, commissioner, we must not allow this debate to be just another debate without consequences.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in several countries, production has been severely affected and in some cases has even ceased, with thousands of tonnes of poultry stored in refrigerators, which implies high conservation costs, without any market for their consumption. so poultry farmers are having a very difficult time. there are countries where, even without any identified case of avian influenza, poultry and egg production have suffered huge declines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of swine fever and bse, and it is therefore necessary to provide support for producers and to ensure that the community finances market compensation at 100%, as was the case with swine fever and bse, given the serious economic and social situation in several countries and the difficulty of securing co-financing. we also propose that the withdrawal of birds be financed until they can be released on the market to avoid the costs of keeping them in cold storage. a long-term information campaign throughout the european union is also needed to regain consumer confidence. it seems to me that this could also be a proposal for funding from the european union itself.
the report by mr thierry cornillet, on behalf of the committee on development, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2005 (a6-0063/2006) is reproduced below.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr thierry cornillet on his report and our co-president of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly on her seriousness and commitment in the conduct of the work of this assembly. i would first of all like to draw attention to the conclusions of the women's forum which took place on the sidelines of the assembly during the last session in edinburgh in november. the discussion focused on the issue of trafficking of women and girls from developing countries and the poorest parts of europe to the wealthier parts of western europe. between 600 000 and 800 000 women and girls are trafficked across international borders every year, which is more than the entire population of acp countries such as cape verde, djibouti or the comoros. the women's forum has bridged the gap between the countries of origin and the countries of destination. the discussion was very lively and there was a great deal of participation from colleagues in the acp countries. in the final conclusions, the participants called for the joint parliamentary assembly to draw up a report to identify the measures needed to combat this scourge in all the acp (european, african and caribbean) signatory countries. it should be noted that the forum was organised on the sidelines of the joint parliamentary assembly and that there are no resources available to organise it. i therefore call on the services of parliament and the conference of presidents to consider raising funds for such a useful and results-oriented organisation. more generally, last year the joint parliamentary assembly discussed the situation in darfur and west africa, but did not address the perversion of the rule of law, the electoral process and serious human rights violations in countries of particular strategic and symbolic importance, such as ethiopia, the seat of the african union. meanwhile, important developments have been made to combat impunity in africa with the arrest and prosecution of dictator charles taylor. other dictators, such as hissène habré or mengistu, the former dictator of ethiopia, who are being housed in acp countries such as zimbabwe and senegal, must also be brought to justice. in these cases too, the house can play an important role in bringing an end to impunity in africa. i should like to say on this subject that it would be important for the discussions to be more truthful. sometimes acp countries act more as ambassadors for their governments than as critics of the situation in their countries. i think that we as members of the european parliament have a duty to find ways of better supporting our colleagues in the acp countries who are determined to tell the truth and to encourage them to exercise control and pressure to ensure change in their countries and to ensure better governance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the following table shows the number of the certificate:
the report by mr margrietus van den berg, on behalf of the committee on development, on aid effectiveness and corruption in developing countries [2005/2141 (ini) ] (a6-0048/2006) follows.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, max van den berg, on his excellent, timely and important report. the european union and its members contribute more than half of official development assistance globally. following the decisions taken at the 2005 spring european council and the g8 gleneagles summit, international aid is expected to increase substantially over the next ten years. in this context, and if we are to achieve the millennium development goals, it is necessary to introduce appropriate transparency mechanisms to ensure that development aid actually reaches the recipients on the ground. as the max van den berg report points out, the proper management of development aid is essential for good governance in recipient countries. i would like to mention ethiopia, an acp country which is the largest recipient of external aid, accounting for almost 25% of the public budget, and where, nevertheless, there are serious violations of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. under the revised cotonou agreement, serious cases of corruption may result in political consultations under articles 96 and 97. the european union should not hesitate to use this tool. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. only then will the citizens of developing countries have the opportunity to expose and free themselves from corrupt governments. more specifically, the european union must put pressure on the parliaments and governments of developing countries to increase parliamentary scrutiny of military spending. shadow and parallel budgets represent a form of corruption that directly affects internal, regional and even global security. the lack of transparency in this area is a clear example of the link between corruption, failing states and security. in other words, when we talk about corruption we also talk about war and peace, and in this context the problem is not only in developing countries, since our governments in the european union and in the west in general have their share of responsibility. the g8 countries, for example, account for over 80% of the world's arms exports. the efforts made by the member states of the european union to ensure that union arms exports are compatible with the technical and economic capacity of importing countries in the context of the european union code of conduct for arms exports are welcome. but it is vital to ensure that development money is not diverted to weapons. unfortunately, we are still waiting for detailed reports from the member states on the implementation of the rules of this code. in this opaque area of activity, where arms dealing, corruption and violence intersect, europe has a responsibility to ensure that weapons sold by our companies and governments reach their legal and only intended recipients and do not fall into the hands of criminals, militias and repressive governments. the partial implementation by member states, including my own country, of the 2003 european council common position on arms brokering means that legal loopholes remain in europe in this area and unless we are more stringent with the introduction of arms within our own borders it will be difficult to combat corruption in this area in developing countries.
in writing. the rules in force do not allow residence permits issued by switzerland and liechtenstein to be validly recognised for the purpose of transit or short stay in the schengen area. this requires third country nationals who are subject to the visa requirement to enter the schengen area, even if they have this residence permit, to apply for a visa. given the high seasonal mobility of migrant workers and their families, especially during holiday periods (approximately half a million people came from switzerland in 2003), this leads to a high overload of consular posts in some member states, while these people face long waits and significant burdens. i therefore support the creation of a simplified regime for the transit of these people not only because they do not represent a risk of illegal immigration or a threat to security, since they have already been subject to the controls of the swiss and liechtenstein authorities when issuing residence permits. but also because of a question of reciprocity, whereby there is already a visa exemption, since 2000, by these countries for holders of residence permits issued by an eu member state.
in writing. we regret that our proposals for 100% community financing of market compensation measures, as was the case with swine fever and bse, were not adopted, given the serious socioeconomic situation in some countries and the difficulty of securing co-financing. however, we voted in favour of all the amendments because they advocate support for producers and, while proposing 50% community co-financing for restrictions on free movement which may result from the application of measures to combat the spread of animal diseases, they propose 100% community financing for serious market disturbances directly linked to a loss of consumer confidence due to the existence of risks to public or animal health. we have thus secured a fundamental part of what we stand for, and we hope that the commission and the council will welcome the european parliament's decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the avril doyle report on a joint draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases because it establishes a legislative framework for these gases with considerable greenhouse effects, some of which are more harmful than co2, and which can persist in the atmosphere for up to 50,000 years. in order to meet the kyoto objectives and protect the environment, this regulation will ensure the recycling, recovery or destruction of equipment using fluorinated gases, as well as greater information to european consumers about the global warming potential of these gases.
in writing. the agreement reached in the conciliation committee is very satisfactory and brings about major improvements in terms of gaseous emissions into the atmosphere. the proposed dual legal basis is appropriate for this type of regulation as it allows certain member states to maintain more restrictive environmental legislation while ensuring the balance of the internal market in europe. containment of emissions and leakage appears to be the appropriate solution in view of the objective of reducing emissions of fluorinated gases into the atmosphere. the obligation to report annually to the commission on the certification of personnel responsible and the recovery policy for recycling or recovery of equipment are measures which i welcome. i therefore agree with the conciliation committee's decision.
in writing. the agreement reached in the conciliation committee is satisfactory and brings about significant improvements in gas emissions into the atmosphere. the restriction of the use of hfc-134a, as well as other high greenhouse gases, in new vehicles launched on the market from 2011 and its extension to all vehicles in circulation from 2017 are measures that can lead to a significant reduction in emissions. since alternatives to this gas are being developed, the authorisation of the use of hfc-152a is appropriate, provided that it is in the context of a phasing-out perspective. i therefore agree with the conciliation committee's decision.
on behalf of the pse group. other i visited darfur as part of a delegation from this parliament in september 2004 and saw the extent of the tragedy, as mrs fiona hall has already mentioned. then, here in parliament and in the european union, we supported the role that the african union sought to play in resolving the conflict. but it has dragged on for three years, causing more than 200,000 deaths and 2 million displaced and refugees. unmis has reached its limits and the abuja negotiations are not moving forward. the conflict has escalated and is spreading to neighboring chad. the obstruction of jan egeland's visit to darfur is yet another affront by the sudanese regime to the un, adding to the grave war crimes and crimes against humanity perpetrated by its forces, including the janjaweed militias. the provocative threats by khartoum to turn darfur into a graveyard for un troops should not be intimidating. the international community cannot abdicate its responsibility to protect and must therefore immediately dispatch, within the framework of chapter vii of the united nations charter, a robust and well-equipped stabilisation force, preparing the deployment of a united nations peacekeeping operation of an appropriate size, both with a strong european contribution. all the members of the un security council must shoulder their responsibilities, including those who have protected the corrupt and criminal dictatorial regime in khartoum, such as china. the lasting solution to the conflict also requires an end to the impunity of those responsible for the crimes in darfur. in this respect, it is essential to support the investigations of the international criminal court and to strengthen sanctions against khartoum by strictly enforcing the arms embargo and imposing an embargo on oil exports.
mr president, i would like to state my total opposition to this transformation which represents an unacceptable concession to the demands of the new president of the republic of iran, mahmoud ahmadinejad. there is no reason whatsoever to justify this act, which is absolutely unusual in the context of the european parliament's tradition, and i therefore wish to protest and strongly oppose your decision.
the political europe we want to build requires a new institutional and regulatory order. this order covers the rules governing the statute of members of the european parliament. we know that all parliaments contain in their special statute for members the values of autonomy and representation, but the statute for members of the european parliament goes further. it gives the sense of our understanding of the significance of parliament in the evolution of european political union. a single statute for members with an appropriate system of privileges and immunities is the requirement for an increasingly integrated political union which calls for the principles of democracy for its system of representation on a large scale. the system of privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament is inherent in the nature and essence of the statute and cannot therefore be confused with the privileges and immunities of other union officials or be fragmented according to the preferences of each member state. the question which parliament is asking the council today is not merely a formal one. it is the difference between a conception of europe as an integrated democratic structure with parliament at its centre and a conception of europe with a fragmentary structure. the review of the system of privileges and immunities is also part of a commitment made by the council. the opportunity for an intergovernmental conference, now or later, can be discussed. the need to adapt the wish for an adjustment to the statute of the privileges and immunities is obvious, as is the need for the intergovernmental conference to hear the voice of parliament, in the name of the present and in the name of the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the committee on budgetary control, i think we can look at this moment as a moment of confidence. we are now finishing most of our work, but we are also emphasizing firmly that if there is any question that raises reasonable doubts, no matter who it hurts, we do not say "amen". we demand explanations, we guarantee that there will be nothing and no one to cover up the truth about what is happening to the european parliament buildings in strasbourg. that is what we all did very quickly, and i would like to emphasize our president of the commission, who took the lead in this process, which is by no means to say that our rapporteur, markus ferber, deserves any less attention and appreciation for what he is doing. the only option we have left to postpone discharge is indeed a vote against, but it is not a vote against the work of our rapporteur, it is not a vote against his report, it is a vote in favour of that work, in favour of what we have done and in favour of full transparency. that is what we are going to do tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, in a very convincing way. i wish you a good job for the next six months. i'm sure we'll find the truth in this dossier.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's initiative to review state aid for innovation is overall positive and timely. innovation is one of the key instruments for reinvigorating the european union's international competitiveness and achieving the lisbon objectives of growth and jobs. but in an imperfect market like innovation, it doesn't happen naturally and it needs to be stimulated. despite this strategic nature, there is no sound european policy to support either innovation or research and development, and the common financial resources are clearly insufficient, as is evident from the financial perspectives which we shall shortly be voting on. we are thus dependent on policies defined in each member state, which require a reconciliation, not always easy, of competition policy and the functioning of the internal market. in addition, the very large imbalances which still persist between countries and regions in europe can create great differences in the quality and scale of this support. it is in the interests of the peripheral regions that enterprises and institutions are not excluded from access to the europe of knowledge and innovation. we are therefore aware of the difficulty of this exercise, but also of its relevance for the future of europe. we therefore hope that the concerns of the european citizens expressed by their representatives in this parliament will be given due attention by the commission, despite the reports which have been issued in the meantime and which have already been cited by the speakers who have preceded me. the draft report which is now before us is the result of a concerted effort and constructive negotiations at parliament's level. and as a shadow rapporteur, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to thank the willingness shown by the various members involved, both from my own political group and from other political groups, and in particular the quality of the work carried out by the rapporteur, mrs sophia in 't veld. among the proposals adopted by the econ committee, i would like to draw the attention of the house and the commission to a number of issues: firstly, the need to simplify bureaucratic procedures for granting state aid, but also to increase its transparency and comparability. clarity is essential not only to enable the commission to assess their compliance, but above all to ensure that the criteria and impact of state aid are clear to businesses, citizens and in particular to smes. concepts such as 'market failure' versus 'market inefficiency' are probably unclear to the citizen. perhaps more relevant is the review of some policy instruments in the light of available experience. i will mention just a few: first, the role of public capital versus private capital in supporting innovation processes needs to be clarified. risk perception and asymmetric information often drive private investment away from some of the most interesting projects, and the role of public investment cannot be replaced here. secondly, the concept of innovation, as has already been said, must go beyond the level of mere technological innovation. innovation will only make sense if it also includes non-technological aspects, both in industry and in services. thirdly, it is important to review the type of enterprises that can be supported. the criterion of size, for example, as a fundamental criterion is not justified, nor is the duration of the support. in the case of venture capital, it does not make sense to limit it too much to the early stages of so-called start-ups and then to leave it out of the later stages, when it is likely to be most needed and useful. fourthly, it is important to work on adapting cohesion policy to objectives more compatible with the lisbon strategy, including strengthening intangible interventions, strengthening their evaluation and strengthening their monitoring. finally, parliament drew particular attention to the international competitiveness of european producers in relation to state aid granted by third countries to new entrants in various industrial sectors. this issue will have to gain greater status in the union's international trade negotiations. however, the levels of support granted to competitors outside europe should be taken into account in the definition of the european state aid framework. these are just some of the issues to which i would now like to add just two: the first concerns the clarification of state aid in the case of clusters and i am very pleased that the commissioner has referred to this aspect in her speech. the support is provided both for innovation-related clusters and for existing clusters, many of which will only survive if they are able to adopt an innovation dynamic. this innovation process, which is often horizontal, necessarily requires public intervention. they are indeed essential to introduce incentives and remove obstacles to cooperation between actors. the second of these last themes concerns the need to combine state aid for innovation more coherently with cohesion policy, so as to ensure that we are not in practice building a two-speed europe in the context of the lisbon strategy. we see state aid as one of the instruments to overcome the innovation deficit in europe, although it is neither a priority nor the only instrument. however, the quality of this aid is very much dependent on the success of europe as a dynamic, competitive and cohesive area. i am convinced that the spirit of cooperation between parliament and the commission will produce positive results in the light of the objectives which we are pursuing.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to welcome this initiative by the commission and congratulate mr titley on his excellent report, especially on the dynamism it has brought to the debate in the commission, which has made a major contribution to road safety, not forgetting, as has already been mentioned here today, the more than 42 000 deaths per year that need to be reduced. the introduction of this system will ensure an emergency service, a faster response in the event of accidents and could help to reduce by about half the number of accidents and deaths on our roads. that is why this is an objective which must mobilise the whole of the union and all the member states, starting with my own, which must respond more quickly to what it has to do. i would like to remind you that the commission statement mentions studies to be carried out by the member states. although the portuguese, spanish and french outermost regions are not mentioned, i hope that this is not a reason to delay the application in those regions which are most marked by permanent constraints, especially because i think that it must be applied throughout the european union and therefore also in those regions. one aspect that also came up in this discussion is the safeguarding of privacy rights. i also think that with this report road safety has a new dimension in the prevention of accidents, as well as in the improvement and development of infrastructure and equipment for victims, thus providing important assistance to those injured as a result of car accidents. this is why this initiative is of the utmost interest to the union and the member states.
madam president, commissioner, we know that there are a number of initiatives relating to safe and intelligent transport. these initiatives will above all contribute to the european objective of halving the number of road deaths in the european union by 2010, which is our main objective. today we have more and more technological resources at our disposal that can contribute to saving lives and reducing the severity of injuries. the considerable advances in technologies, systems, services and security, as well as the possibilities that will be offered in the future by the development of galileo, are an example of this. in this debate and the subsequent vote, we must give a decisive boost to the development and implementation of the ecall system at european level by 2009. i consider it essential to support this system, since the consequences of accidents must be reduced and victims must be helped by reducing the time taken by emergency medical, police and towing teams to respond by rapidly locating the accidents. the system could save thousands of lives a year and contribute to a significant reduction in the severity of injuries and the costs of accidents. the ecall project must therefore be welcomed and supported by this parliament. but that is not enough, madam president, commissioner, this kind of initiative depends on competition between multiple public and private entities ranging from the automobile industry to telecommunications operators, equipment suppliers, motorway dealers, insurance companies, etc. the reception by all parties involved, as we have seen, has been generally positive, so it is imperative that those member states which have not yet activated the memorandum of understanding for the implementation of ecall do so quickly by making this project more viable for the benefit of better and more effective road safety. it's not a cost, it's an investment. i would like to make this appeal very clear, and i congratulate the commission on its initiative and mr titley on his excellent report.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the creation of a reliable and credible indicator of language proficiency is a matter of mutual agreement. however, here are some thoughts: the indicator, the commission explains, will be obtained through written tests and i quote 'for practical reasons'. i understand, but i no longer understand, that the same practical reasons are used to measure, and i quote again, 'the five most widely spoken languages in the european union'. the indicator thus obtained runs counter to the objectives of the barcelona summit because the selection of languages sets a working orientation for the states concerned in achieving results. the common objective that every child should master at least two languages in addition to his or her mother tongue is measurable. you see, mr. figel, the indicator is obtained by sample and written test. there is no practical reason why knowledge of the command of any language should not be available in the union. if the tests are applied to the universe of languages, we may come to surprising conclusions, namely that turkish or arabic, chinese or russian are important languages in the union and that the children of immigrants are the closest to mastering two languages in addition to their mother tongue. that is why we shall vote for karin resetarits' amendments. a second brief thought: the indicator and the certification of language skills should not be confused. the harmonization of language certificates is not a culturally or socially neutral measure. with populist politicians and divided public opinion on immigration policies, such a measure could legitimize discriminatory immigrant screening policies to the detriment of citizens from the poorest countries in the union.
in writing. the proposal by the conference of presidents to change the name of the delegation for relations with iran does not in any way merit my support. first of all, it's not a good time. at a time when iran should be realizing that the international community is not willing to ignore the threat that regime poses, this gesture is meaningless. moreover, if this proposal were to be considered, it would have to be analysed in a generic way, covering all the countries with which parliament has delegations and which also have official names other than those used in the parliamentary designation. if that is not the case - and i do not advocate that it should be - then an exception for iran is even less justified. the only exceptional thing about iran right now is that it is challenging, and threatening, the international community. this is a time of firmness. and negotiating, of course, but with determination. changing the name of the parliamentary delegation is neither one thing nor the other.
in writing. given that bulgaria, romania and austria have submitted requests for assistance for damage caused by the floods which occurred between april and august 2005 and that on other occasions i have supported the use of the solidarity fund to deal with similar tragedies, i cannot do less than ask for solidarity with these countries. in some cases as in others, it is the idea of solidarity, of risk-sharing, of mutual aid that is at stake and deserves my agreement.
in writing. the ep had previously considered that cultural diversity should be recognised in the field of international law by adopting an international convention on cultural diversity within the framework of unesco, which took place on 20 october 2005 in paris. the aim of this convention is to promote and protect the diversity of cultural content and artistic expressions and to facilitate the formulation and adoption of cultural policies and appropriate measures to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions, as well as to encourage greater cultural exchanges at international level. the convention establishes at international level that states and governments have the sovereign right to design and adopt measures and policies which enable the development of their own cultural sectors. it recognises that cultural diversity is enhanced by the circulation of ideas and reaffirms the importance of freedom of thought and diversity of media. it recognises the right of states to adopt audiovisual policies and to promote their audiovisual industries. reaffirms the important roles of public service broadcasting in promoting cultural diversity and media pluralism. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. this report concerns amendments to council decision 90/424/eec so that eu financial aid can be granted not only to terrestrial animals but also to aquatic animals. these amendments are of key importance in order to obtain financial support from the future eff, which will enable member states to combat serious diseases in farmed animals. the amendment of the date of entry into force proposed in this report is consistent with another amendment proposed in the report on the directive on the prevention and control of diseases in aquaculture, which is more realistic than the one previously proposed by the commission and therefore deserves my support.
in writing. the report aims to update, reform and consolidate animal health rules for trade in aquaculture products, including the prevention and control of certain diseases, in order to increase the competitiveness of eu aquaculture producers. the legislative changes to be introduced are aimed at simplifying and modernising existing rules and innovating the sector for future challenges. i believe that the amendments adopted in the kindermann report have enriched the commission's original proposal and made it more appropriate to the reality of the member states in this area.
in writing. despite the cosmetic changes made at the last minute and the inclusion of aspects which we obviously share, this resolution is a clarification of the eu's real intentions with regard to its so-called 'cooperation' with the countries of latin america. in addition to many other aspects worthy of criticism and our rejection, the following should be noted: - the use of the so-called 'integration' processes (always in the image of the eu) as an instrument to promote capitalist integration and the liberalization of trade, in the interests of the great powers and the major economic and financial groups; - the creation of free trade areas (as wide as possible), based on bilateral or multilateral agreements, seeking to achieve a level of trade liberalisation that has not been possible to impose in the wto so far; - the creation of a so-called 'bi-regional centre for conflict prevention' as a means of laying the foundations for eu intervention in latin america (and not the other way around); - and, in an outrageous manner, the total absence of any denunciation or criticism of the criminal blockade of cuba and the extra-territorial laws of the united states against that country. a resolution contrary to what was stated in the declaration by progressive meps from europe and latin america in bregrenz. hence our versus yours!
in writing. in my view, the first european priority should be at the regional level. the european union has a duty, both towards the citizens of its member states and as a partner of the international community, to assume a role which is unique at the level of its immediate sphere of influence. there is, however, room (and need) for others. of course, latin america must be among them. for historical, cultural and linguistic reasons, this is a space with enormous potential for the development of cooperation links in the economic and political fields and, in particular, in international relations, where collaboration between these two sides of the atlantic can be so fruitful. finally, a national note. portugal, which must have africa as one of its external priority vectors, cannot ignore the importance of this transatlantic link, and therefore the support for initiatives such as the summit to be held in vienna on 12 and 13 may must be total. i hope therefore that this summit will have positive results to show. in particular, the negotiations with mercosur, on which i have expressed my concern and commitment on several occasions.
in writing. in the year of the 20th anniversary of the accession of portugal and spain to the european communities, it is fair to acknowledge that europe has gained from the particular knowledge of latin american reality brought by these countries and that it would gain even more if it promoted the teaching of the portuguese and spanish languages as privileged vehicles of universal communication. i agree with the rapporteur's view that we need to strengthen economic and cultural cooperation with latin america and i stress the key role that relations with brazil, which is an essential player in this partnership process, should play in this context. i am concerned to note that the progress made in democracy and freedom in latin america has not, in many cases, been matched by progress in the fight against poverty and social inequalities. i believe that the european union should not tolerate the flagrant violations of human rights and the erosion of civil liberties that are taking place in cuba and, more recently, in hugo chavez's venezuela. i look forward to the conclusions of the vienna summit and hope that it will indeed be a moment of genuine strengthening of relations between the european union and latin america.
in writing. the amendments to the fishing protocol which are the subject of the commission proposal and the ep report will not only make it possible to adapt fishing effort to the precarious situation of resources in the cephalopod category but also to compensate the fleet by increasing the number of fishing licences in the pelagic and tuna categories. these amendments do not prejudice the integration of fleets flying the flag of the new member states, while ensuring continuity of access to community fishing vessels traditionally operating under this agreement, which is why this report deserves my support.
in writing. cape verde has an exemplary record of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and has deep historical, social, political, cultural and geographical affinities with the european union. these make it a privileged and exceptional platform for the development and strengthening of euro-african relations and a factor of stability and security on one of the flanks of the european space. despite being europe's south-western atlantic frontier, cape verde has been included in other programmes which, by themselves, do not reflect its true proximity, nor do they recognise its identification with common values such as the rule of law, the promotion of good neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development. it is known that contacts have been developed between the cape verdean authorities and the main opposition party to promote the granting of special status or a partnership with the european union. the inclusion of this country in the neighbourhood policy could be an important step in this direction and a decisive counterpoint to a neighbourhood policy which would be very poor if it were strictly centred on the southern and eastern borders of the union. i welcome the adoption of amendments nos 36 and 38.
in writing. this report is a portrait of the increasing preponderance of the financial sphere over the real sphere of the economy. the proposed measures to change the legal structure of ucits and their investments have as their main objective to increase cross-border trade of investment funds, while aiming to remove all obstacles, including tax obstacles, aiming at maximising the profitability of these funds, including the merger of funds. in order to facilitate trade and increase competition, it calls for the harmonization of consumer protection standards and prospectuses. on the other hand, it wants to increase the areas of investment, in particular in real estate, which will increase the risk for investors. the aim, in the spirit of financial globalisation, is to bring the eu's financial markets and investment fund model closer to that of the us. and why should it not be, pension funds appear at the top of the list of priorities. this money-making machine, parasitizing the productive economy and the rights acquired by many workers, maximizes the profits, especially of banks and management companies, but also increases the risks of financial and economic crisis. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. this report is in line with the neoliberal agenda of the lisbon strategy. it calls for state aid to be considered an exception and calls for further measures to deregulate, ensure competition, facilitate access to capital, encourage entrepreneurship, remove obstacles to the movement of workers (and researchers) and a common immigration policy to serve these purposes (in particular in the area of recruitment in the information and communication technologies (ict) sector). at the same time, it encourages public-private partnerships and considers aid to smes to be ineffective. all in the name of innovation! it also advocates the strategy of horizontal objectives for state aid defined at community level, especially, and again, for innovation. this process, which is also part of the bologna process for education, aims to make universities and schools meet the basic needs of large multinationals by 'educating' a homogeneous workforce with ict and language skills that facilitate occupational and geographical mobility of labour and their adaptability, while commodifying knowledge and the product of research. for all these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. i voted against the manolis mavrommatis report (a6-0074/2006) on promoting multilingualism and language learning in the eu because, in a europe founded on the coexistence of peoples, it is essential that citizens have the necessary skills to be able to communicate effectively with each other, thus enhancing mobility within the european union. it is unacceptable to give some languages a privileged status without understanding the selection criteria. the creation of a 'multilingual' society, in which every citizen has the opportunity to learn at least two languages in addition to his or her mother tongue, contributes to bringing citizens of the different member states of the european union closer together. but it is important that national languages are not devalued.
in writing. we voted against because multilingualism is not considered in all its practical applications. steps are being taken which could lead to the creation of a directory which selects the languages to be used. it is regrettable that proposals to extend the range of languages, including those of immigrants, have been rejected. quoting the commission: "the eu institutions must strike a balance between the costs and benefits of being multilingual". this statement comes in the wake of several repeated discriminations concerning the use, translation and interpretation of the official languages of the eu, as well as the dismissal of a few dozen teachers who worked in the commission services, and it adds to our concerns about the need to defend multilingualism as a cultural value of the eu. we therefore advocate an interinstitutional agreement on a written legal framework for the eu's language regime, which respects the diversity of cultures and languages, since language is the most direct expression of culture, and which guarantees equal treatment of all official languages, putting an end to the so-called distinction between 'official languages' and 'working languages' which has served to discriminate against some languages, notably portuguese.
in writing. the report by mr mavromatis focuses on one of the decisive factors for the success of the education and training of our citizens - language skills. the europe of the future must have citizens ready to meet the challenges of the knowledge society, so the ability to communicate in at least two languages in addition to one's mother tongue is of great importance. the adoption of a language proficiency indicator therefore seems to me necessary to compensate for the current lack of real data on the linguistic skills of citizens of the european union. however, it is not acceptable that we should favour certain languages over others, particularly portuguese, which is spoken by 200 million people and is the third most widely used language of the union in the world. in addition to this linguistic indicator, this report reveals a worrying political indicator: that of a europe more focused on itself and less on the world around it; that of a europe which values its languages according to criteria of internal demography, which may be very convenient for some, but is politically unacceptable in the light of the founding principles of the european union. for these reasons i voted against mr mavromatis' report.
in writing. the expansion of language skills is not only an individual asset but also an irreplaceable vehicle for mutual understanding between states, peoples and cultures. it is therefore essential for a europe which is to be united in diversity. the lack of data on citizens' actual language skills suggests the need to set up systems to measure progress towards the barcelona european council's objective of making the european union's education and training systems a world quality hub. the european language competence indicator could be a relevant tool, allowing valid data to be collected on the language skills of europeans, facilitating the exchange of good practice and giving a new impetus to language teaching. i think it is essential that a european language policy does not simply reflect the idea of a europe closed in on itself. i would therefore like to reiterate the need to introduce the concept of a european language for universal communication into this debate. english, spanish, portuguese and french, in that order, and german and italian, to a lesser extent, are privileged means of communicating with the rest of the world and should be given preferential support and encouragement by the european union.
last week the so-called quartet for the middle east, which is part of the european union, decided to set up a temporary international mechanism for humanitarian aid to the palestinian people. this decision follows the measures taken by the united states to isolate the palestinian authority, in particular the suspension of funding for its functioning, which, in the context of the occupation and oppression by the israeli government, has the objective consequence of promoting the collapse of the palestinian authority, exemplified by public services such as education and health, and worsening the already grave situation in which the palestinian people find themselves, as the united nations has warned. this unjustifiable punishment of the palestinian people is taking place at the very moment when the government of israel, having disregarded all agreements, is continuing its policy of violating international law and breaching united nations resolutions, maintaining the military occupation, continuing the construction of the wall and advancing with new threats of regrouping settlements in the west bank. mr president, these genuine sanctions must be ended and political initiatives must be taken to ensure that international law and un resolutions are effectively complied with.
it's been exactly one year since the elections in ethiopia, and the people went out in droves to vote for democracy and change. the european union, through the mission i led, unfortunately had to consider that the elections did not meet international standards because of the lack of transparency in the counting and, above all, because of the serious human rights violations that took place. right now, the main opposition leaders and thousands of people are in prison and facing death sentences. what more is needed for the council to mobilise and apply targeted sanctions, as in the case of belarus, to those responsible for the regime in addis ababa. what more is needed for the commission and the council to mobilize to obtain the unconditional and rapid release of the prisoners? the european union is making a difference in addis ababa. we cannot let the people of ethiopia down.
for the gue/ngl group as regards the content of the fisheries agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco as regards the waters under its effective sovereignty, i would only underline, in general terms, the positions expressed by representatives of the fisheries sector who consider the conditions of this new agreement to be extremely harmful, as they bring more restrictions, more burdens and less benefits for fishermen. but this agreement raises an earlier and more important question, namely respect for international law and the legitimate rights of the people of western sahara. morocco has illegally occupied western sahara. moreover, as stated in united nations resolutions, morocco has no sovereignty over this territory and, consequently, over its natural resources, nor any right as its administering power, de facto or de jure, under the charter of the united nations. morocco is merely the de facto illegal occupying power of western sahara, that is to say, its illegal colonizer. any agreement with morocco which, ambiguously or not, includes the exploitation of the natural resources of western sahara is therefore a clear violation of international law. the question, therefore, as the polisario front points out, is whether the european union countries will respect international law and contribute to a just and lasting solution to the conflict, respecting the inalienable right of self-determination of the saharawi people, or whether they will encourage injustice, aggression and the violation of human rights. the inclusion in the agreement of clauses which, in a mitigated form, state that the financial contribution from the european community should also be used for the development of the coastal populations of morocco and western sahara who live from fishing, as has been demonstrated in previous agreements, is insufficient and does not safeguard the rights of the sarawi people. if it were really to be ensured that the sarawak people would enjoy the dividends due to the exploitation of their fishery resources, the necessary conditions would have been provided for, for example, by the creation of a united nations fund in order to guarantee their interests and rights effectively. for these reasons we have tabled two amendments which, while reaffirming international legality, explicitly exclude the waters of western sahara from this fisheries agreement by granting fishing opportunities only to community fishermen in the waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco, that is to say, in the waters situated exclusively north of the 27°40' parallel. finally, it is important to stress that, although on its own initiative it informed the european council and the european commission of its serious concerns about this agreement, the polisario front, the legitimate representative of the sarawi people, was not consulted throughout this process, which we consider regrettable.
mr commissioner, mr president of the committee on fisheries, we are faced with a very lively and very important debate because, on the one hand, we have the legitimate interests and rights of fishermen and of morocco, but it is also true that we must not forget that this agreement cannot legitimise the occupation of western sahara, which is not recognised by international law. this is a very strategic and fundamental question and i cannot therefore give my consent to a proposal which ignores this problem, which is of the utmost importance to the international community, although i understand those who take other options in this debate.
the debate is closed.
the report by mr reinhard rack, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing the second marco polo programme on the granting of community financial support to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo ii) (com (2004) 0478 - c6-0088/2004 - 2004/0157 (cod)) (a6-0408/2005) follows.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague and rapporteur, reinhard rack, on the excellent work he has done on this report. i believe that your aim and that of most of the colleagues who have been involved in the debate in committee is above all that we must first of all rebalance the distribution of transport in a sustainable way and develop intermodality by tackling the problem of congestion effectively. otherwise, the expected increase in road freight transport, which is forecast to reach more than 60% in the european union alone by 2013, cannot be tackled. but the excessive traffic of goods on our roads is only the most visible problem. the economic, safety and environmental costs are enormous. consistent measures must therefore be taken to reduce these negative effects. reducing road freight transport and making intermodality a competitive and economically viable reality are the right responses to reverse the current trend. in this context and building on the work already undertaken, the marco polo ii programme contains a wide-ranging and comprehensive set of positive and necessary incentives and actions applicable not only to the territory of the european union but also to the neighbouring regions, which is to be welcomed. it will make it possible to stimulate investment in rail transport, in inland waterways and in the use of motorways of the sea more effectively, while also making use of the european maritime islands and the outermost regions as ports of passage and intermediate links between those roads, motorways of the sea and inland waterways, as i said. but it is also essential to promote the development of technical innovations that can provide competitive advantages for alternative modes of transport, in particular for towed material. the aim of reducing international road traffic, especially that of goods, also implies giving priority to projects in sensitive areas, in particular urban areas where traffic is highly concentrated. finally, mr president, the question of funding. as is well known, this programme was the subject of difficult negotiations in the context of the financial perspective, which resulted in a total amount of eur 400 million, well below the amount proposed by the commission, which regrets the lower strategic ambition it shows. since no more funds can be obtained, as the commission has proposed, it is the use and distribution of this amount that will determine the success of this programme. i cannot therefore fail to congratulate my colleague and rapporteur on the wise reduction of the eligibility ceiling for some projects, which will make this programme more accessible to small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent a very important part of the business fabric and which employ a significant part of the european workforce. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives pursued in this report and the solutions it proposes will certainly have a decisive impact on the future of european freight transport, both in terms of its fluidity and its sustainability, and our support and the favourable vote of this parliament are therefore essential.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
in writing. the text of council regulation (ec) no 1785/2003 should be amended to incorporate the amendments to the provisions applicable to imports of rice resulting from the agreements concluded between the commission and india (council decision 2004/617/ec of 11 august 2004), pakistan (council decision 2004/618/ec of 11 august 2004), the united states of america (council decision 2005/476/ec of 21 june 2005) and thailand (council decision 2005/953/ec of 20 december 2005). these agreements laid down the customs conditions for imports taking into account the nature of the product and the quantities imported, and authorised the commission to derogate from regulation (ec) no 1785/2003 for a transitional period. since this derogation was limited to 30 june 2006, it is urgent to amend the text of the current regulation. i therefore support the commission's proposal and approve the report by mr joseph daul.
in writing. i am in favour of the adoption of this document in its essence. the discharge of the eu-angola fisheries agreement was inevitable given the obligations created in the meantime by the new angolan legislative framework, which are not in line with eu principles on partnership agreements with third countries. i agree with the flexibility of the current fifg and the derogating measures which are presented in this proposal, but i believe that the eu should, in the name of reciprocity, be attentive to the exercise of fishing activity by community shipowners who benefit from these measures.
in writing. the termination of the agreement, in addition to the loss of fishing opportunities, jobs and value added associated with the activities carried out, implies the conversion of vessels dependent on fishing in angolan waters. the commission regrets this complaint and the feasibility of the vessels concerned operating in other areas or under other fisheries agreements, negotiating new fishing opportunities or existing opportunities which are not being used, should be examined. or the fact that the ships remain in angola through the creation of joint ventures. by maintaining jobs and countering the culling of vessels through demolition. measures are therefore needed to facilitate the conversion of these fishing vessels, such as exempting them from the obligation to reimburse aid for construction or modernisation obtained in the previous 10 years and aid for temporary immobilisation granted under the fifg. as for joint ventures or other types of joint ventures with a third country, they must be based on genuine mutually beneficial cooperation projects and not promote the relocation of the community fleet and fishing industry with the resulting loss of jobs and economic activities upstream and downstream.
in writing. the decision by the majority of parliament to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr tobias pflüger, a member of the european united left/nordic green left group in this parliament, elected on the lists of the german social democratic party, is of particular significance. this is an unprecedented decision, obviously of a political nature, which sets a serious precedent, since it follows the participation of this member of parliament in a protest demonstration against the so-called 'munich security conference' held annually in this german city. this is the fourth time that tobias pflüger has faced charges related to his participation in this demonstration. in 1999 the munich court withdrew the allegations. in 2003, the proceedings were closed. in 2004, the police department even issued a formal apology. the present case refers to 2005, when tobias pflüger participated in this demonstration for the first time as an mep. the request for waiver of immunity was made by the ministry of justice of the federal republic of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the report by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament makes the decision now taken incomprehensible and serious. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the report adopted today represents an improvement on the text adopted at first reading, making the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims more restrictive, given that a varied and balanced diet is an indispensable condition for maintaining health and that products considered individually are less important than the diet as a whole. on the other hand, health and nutritional claims must be scientifically substantiated, taking into account all the available scientific data and weighted against the evidence, as is now the case in the proposals which have been adopted and which our group has endorsed. we regret, however, the adoption of an exceptional amendment concerning the nutritional profiles. although the agreed compromise falls short of expectations in certain respects, it provides a certain level of protection and information for consumers and seeks to safeguard the rights of smes.
in writing. the commission proposal seeks to fill in gaps and propose a european strategy for the next few years in relation to consumer information on the food products they consume. increased consumer awareness, with accurate and concise information, can help reduce problems such as cardiovascular disease and obesity. the compromise amendments voted on substantially improve an initial proposal which i consider to be insufficient and ill-founded. the inclusion of imported products, special attention to products for children, easier access for smes, the exclusion of fresh and unpackaged products and the prohibition of health claims on alcoholic beverages (above 1.2%), will provide a stronger and more comprehensive directive. i therefore agree with the commission proposal and with the report by mrs adriana poli bortone.
in writing. we voted in favour of the compromise proposals at second reading because we believe it is important to have a high level of consumer protection in the addition of vitamins, minerals and other substances to food, preventing them from being a danger to public health. however, since the council, in its common position adopted in december 2005, did not take account of some important amendments which the european parliament had approved in may last year, we believe it is important to re-emphasise the bioavailability of vitamins and minerals, that is to say, that they are bioavailable, otherwise consumers will be misled and may even put their health at risk. similarly, maximum safe levels for vitamins and minerals should be established and information for consumers should be made comprehensible and useful. we regret that no other positive amendments have been adopted, but we hope that at least these will be taken into account by the council.
in writing. i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. as a fundamental point, i would like to emphasize the fact that the situation in the water catchment areas of the various member states where this species exists is quite different, which means that different strategies and measures must be adopted to ensure that these stocks are recovered effectively. i therefore think it is right that the member states should propose their recovery plans. i also think it is important that the eu should support the measures that each member state considers to be the best for the repopulation of the different river basins. this includes, for example, the construction and/or adaptation of obstacle-crossing mechanisms along the course of rivers.
in writing. the commission's main objective in presenting this proposal for a regulation to restore eel stocks is to establish national eel management plans. the proposal aims to ensure a 40% leakage rate for adult silver eels in each river basin, a difficult-to-achieve objective which applies equally to all member states, regardless of their specific characteristics. it was also proposed to prohibit fishing for eels during the first 15 days of each month, which would be excessive and have serious socioeconomic repercussions. these measures would have to be implemented within a relatively short timeframe, i.e. by july 2007. in this respect, the european parliament's proposals are more balanced and correct the most serious points of the commission's proposal, thereby contributing to the recovery of eel stocks. the report replaces the fishing ban in the first half of each month with a fishing ban that halves the fishing effort. it replaces the 40% leakage target with a high percentage. it allows member states to act only in the relevant river basins. and it increases the implementation deadline to 2008. all this gives the member states greater scope for action.
in writing. the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement lays down the principles, rules and procedures governing economic, financial, technical and scientific cooperation in the 'moroccan fishing zones' (article 1). article 2 (a) defines 'moroccan fishing zone' as 'the waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco'. the vote in favour of the report in question by the undersigned is obviously based on the assumption contained in rule 2.
in writing. i am in favour of the adoption of this document in its essence. the new agreement provides for a significant reduction in the number of fishing licences allocated to member states. it went from 500 to about 100, and some important fisheries categories were lost: crustaceans and cephalopods. in any case, i think it is important for the community fleet, and for the national fleet in particular, to continue to be able to fish in morocco under a partnership agreement. this also safeguards the cfp's overriding interests in international fisheries, and ensures that some important commitments are made in the field of fisheries management and the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. i would like to vote in favour of a fisheries agreement between the ec and morocco. but i have to vote against this agreement because no amendments have been adopted to exclude from the scope of the agreement the waters and fisheries resources corresponding to western sahara, a non-self-governing territory, in accordance with un general assembly resolutions 1514 and 1541, illegally occupied by morocco since 1974. so in my view the agreement - and the european commission's legislative proposal for it - is in breach of international law.
in writing. we regret the rejection of our amendments which, while reaffirming international legality, explicitly excluded the waters of western sahara from this fisheries agreement, limiting it to the waters exclusively north of the 27° 40' n parallel.' we consider it all the more serious when the positions of officials of the european commission and of members of this parliament are made public, who regard morocco, in defiance of international law, as the de facto administering power of western sahara. or when it is found that, in the course of previous agreements, there has been fishing and use of western sahara ports without safeguarding the rights and interests of the sarawi people. it is necessary to stress, as the polisario front does, that the united nations, through a legal opinion on western sahara and its natural resources - of 29 january 2002 - reaffirms the condemnation of the exploitation and plundering of natural resources and of all economic activity carried out to the detriment of the interests of the peoples of colonized or non-self-governing territories, depriving them of their legitimate rights over their natural resources, considering such exploitation and plundering illegal and a threat to the integrity and prosperity of these territories. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. following the report on the eu-morocco partnership agreement on marine resources, i would like to state that my vote seeks to follow the regulation most appropriate for the environmental sustainability of the area. in that sense, the agreement is crucial. however, for the eu, as for myself, the issue of human rights is also crucial. we must therefore always enforce the united nations resolutions on this matter. it is clear to me that the understanding of this agreement is about the maritime zones and territories over which there is no conflict and over which the question of sovereignty is not raised, and not about any other, because no state can dispose of what is not under its sovereignty or jurisdiction to the detriment of the self-determination of other peoples.
in writing. the vote on this agreement requires two brief explanations. first of all, the question of western sahara. given that this agreement deals with the subject in the same way as it has been used to, that is, without introducing any change in the european position, and that the commission's legal services have considered it to be in line with international rules, i do not think that the objections to the situation in that territory are being defended effectively here. as regards the substance of the matter, it is welcome that it has finally been possible to reach an agreement on this matter, although it cannot but regret that the final result is not very favourable to portuguese interests. however, given the considerations here, all indications are that this is the best solution, because it is a possible solution. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the european commission (ec) is responsible for monitoring the application of community law in its capacity as 'guardian of the treaties'. the ec informs, warns and sanctions member states in the event of non-compliance with the community treaties. the annual reports of the ec on the application of community law indicate the state of transposition of directives by the member states in order to ensure effective monitoring of the application of legislation. this control does not consist only in an assessment of the transposition in quantitative terms, but also in an assessment of the quality of the transposition. as part of the objectives of improving european policies, particularly through their transparency, the ec has stated that its aim is to reduce the volume of legislation and to eliminate ineffective legislative acts, which does not mean deregulation. i agree with the rapporteur that more human and financial resources should be made available to the ec services to increase the capacity to respond to infringements. i also support the creation of coordination points in each member state for issues relating to the transposition and application of community law and coordination with national ministries and regional and local authorities.
in writing. despite the extraordinary amount of community legislation in force and in preparation - sometimes of questionable necessity or reason for being - the truth is that all this legislation is amenable to monitoring, particularly as regards the transposition and entry into force phase of the new legislation. as the report says, it is therefore regrettable that the community institutions - in particular the commission - take so long to assess the application of european legislation. this is doubly serious, since it reduces the effectiveness of this mechanism and at the same time deprives it of such important virtues as allowing it to act in such a way as to lead the states to comply with the obligations they have assumed in time. another important aspect of this procedure is that a careful assessment of the difficulties of transposition/application of legislation should be an opportunity for a real improvement in the quality of community legislation, especially when, as mentioned in this report, a process is under way precisely for this purpose.
in writing. the number of cases of failure and delay in transposing community law into national legal systems should, in addition to the need for adequate control of its application, give the legislator a desire for simplification and respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that the application of community law will continue to be insufficient as long as community legislation is not clear and perceptible and the community acquis as a whole remains poorly understood. without good community legislation, it is difficult to ensure that community law is properly applied. i welcome the view of the president of the european commission that the community institutions should make a serious effort to ensure that legislation is contained and that it is effective. sometimes less can mean more.
in writing. of all the issues raised in this report, the one which deserves the most attention is that concerning the impact assessment of community legislation. as i have already said, despite constant and possibly excessive legislative production, it is possible to keep a close watch on the legislative production of the community institutions and, more importantly, on its effects. and that concern should be a constant. in parallel, subsidiarity is invoked, which is quite appropriate in this context. this principle - understood in a non-reductive way - must be a key element of legislation within the european union, where the scale is best, the adaptation to the needs of each country, the maintenance of close ties between power and citizens. that said, there is no doubt that this principle is ineffective for a large number of situations where the community scale is most appropriate. but that is also a key element of this principle. finally, there is concern about the recognition of the role of national parliaments, which is essential for a good legislative outcome. without prejudice to others, these are essential elements for better legislative production.
in writing. as i have already said, respect for subsidiarity - in addition to being a fundamental requirement that has been in place for a long time and which needs to be emphasized more - is the touchstone that distinguishes the true europeanists, faithful not only in speech but actually in practice to the idea and the motto that the draft constitutional treaty has summarized: 'united in diversity'. it is essential that the european union gives priority to decision-making at the level closest to the citizen, evaluates the new legislation it adopts and promotes the simplification of existing legislation on the basis of criteria of intelligibility, adequacy and proportionality. i believe that the european union will gain if it focuses on legislating with quality rather than quantity and on seriously involving national parliaments in this process, in addition to the parties directly concerned, so that they can make their positions known in good time and present counterproposals.
in writing. the european commission's better regulation initiative is key to ensuring the trust of citizens, consumers and businesses in the eu. this confidence is based on their experience or perception of european legislation and its impact on their daily lives. in the context of the internal market, it should therefore be translated into the guarantee of effective and high-quality legislation that does not hinder innovation or create unnecessary distortions and unnecessary costs, in particular for smes, public authorities or voluntary groups. our legislation must therefore help to open up opportunities for trade and business, to increase the choice available to consumers and citizens, while protecting environmental, social and consumer rights. if it does not, we will be going against the tide, against the progress of the lisbon strategy, against growth and employment and against the internal market. i have therefore voted in favour of the mccarthy report.
in writing. we agree with the repeal of irrelevant and obsolete acts in community legislation with a view to simplifying the regulatory framework so that decisions are appropriate, simple, effective and do not call into question the principle of subsidiarity, which should be further emphasised in this report so that there is no doubt about its defence throughout this process. however, we hope that this objective will not be used to call into question certain principles which defend the fundamental rights of citizens, including social rights and workers' rights. we also think that an amendment to the existing interinstitutional agreements governing the quality of union legislation could be a positive thing. we therefore voted in favour of the report, although we have reservations about some aspects and even disagree with others, given its ambiguous wording, as you have already mentioned.
in writing. the report we are debating and voting on, as well as the commission communication on which it is based, deserve my wholehearted support. the effort to analyse and revise the community legislative framework is a goal which must be promoted with a view to simplifying the legislative environment, which is essential for greater legal certainty for both citizens and judicial operators. on the other hand, it is an opportunity to simplify the regulatory environment, which is essential for the development of economic activity. there is, however, one aspect of the report and the commission communication with which i do not entirely agree. the argument put forward in both texts that legislation through regulations tends to be more virtuous than legislation through directives does not merit my agreement. on the contrary, although i am aware of the difficulties involved in transposing directives, i believe that they correspond to a method of legislative production which respects an idea of community which is dear to me. this is without rejecting the regulations or failing to recognise their obvious usefulness.
in writing. the question raised by the communication in question deserves wider attention than that which is confined to the question of the legal basis and limits of the commission's withdrawal of legislative proposals. in my view, the main issue is the finding that the situation in force allowed a set of legislative procedures to exist in limbo, which no longer had any reason to exist, but which were also not closed. this reality, more than a debate on the powers of the various institutions, requires an analysis of the routine and bureaucratic aspects of the community legislative procedure. the fact that there is a package of more than 500 documents between parliament and the council awaiting the attention of the legislators is also a matter which should be of concern to us. the european union does not need to legislate a lot to be relevant, it needs to legislate well to be useful.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0207/2006). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
since they concern the same subject, questions 51, 52 and 53 will be answered together. question no 51 by maria badia i cutchet (h-0328/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community regulation to reduce international mobile roaming charges firstly, the author of the question wishes to congratulate the commission on its initiative to draw up a community regulation to reduce international mobile phone roaming charges, which he considers an important step towards a government of the european union that is not only political but also economic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the roaming charges. 2006 is the european year of workers' mobility and the european union, in its attempt to promote european mobility, both at the workplace and at the general level, must avoid mobile phone users having to pay a higher mobile phone rate for calling from abroad. as the commission is well aware, at this stage, in terms of market prices, europeans are penalized for staying outside their country of origin, as roaming charges vary between users in different european countries. in order to ensure that the new regulation respects the criteria and principles not only of competitiveness and the internal market but also of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, could the commission explain the basis on which such regulation will be made? question no 52 by mr ó neachtain (h-0336/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reduced roaming charges in europe how long does the commission believe it will be before the reduction in 'roaming' prices for european consumers comes into effect and what reduction will be applied to this tariff? question no 53 by mr gay mitchell (h-0340/06) subject: international roaming charges what specific procedures are currently under way in the second and final phase of the consultations on the regulation to reduce international roaming charges?
questions 55 to 58 will be answered in writing . question no 59 is therefore withdrawn.
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, as this report and the recent spring economic forecasts show, weak economic growth in the european union as a whole and high unemployment, with over 70 million people living in poverty, remain, and are generally ignored by the commission. this should require a review of the continued priority given to the monetary and liberal policies of the lisbon strategy and the guidelines of the european central bank. however much one tries to hide the reality, it cannot be denied that monetary and fiscal policy based on the stability pact, and giving priority to price stability, has a negative impact on economic growth and employment growth - and portugal is an example of this - so a monetary and fiscal policy is needed that helps to strengthen economic recovery and combat employment, requiring the repeal of the stability pact and its replacement by a real pact for development and social progress. we insist on the need for a combined and coordinated expansionary policy between the european union and its member states, aimed at strengthening domestic demand, public investment, research and education, quality public services, including in the areas of health and housing and infrastructure and equipment, promoting high rates of employment with rights, ensuring economic and social cohesion and balanced environmental development. we believe that these are some of the essential proposals to win the confidence of the citizens of the european union. without this, we are in fact still living in this climate of pessimism that results from policies that do not address the problems that people are experiencing in the european union at the moment.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the quality of his work. the report begins by stressing that the european union's main problem is weak economic growth, persistently high unemployment and insufficient use of installed production capacity - and this is, in my view, a key message. the first signs of recovery that the commissioner mentioned in his speech are not enough to ensure the union's international competitiveness, nor to compensate for the years of stagnation we have been experiencing. it is important that the balance of public finances should not be seen as an end in itself. moreover, neither the interpretation of the stability pact nor the opening of excessive deficit procedures have been effective in preventing persistent public finances imbalances in the main european economies. two main recommendations, in my view, follow from this report: the first concerns the need to make the balance of public finances fully compatible with the revival of european competitiveness, placing this revival at the centre of europe's political concerns. the incipient growth that is beginning to be noticed has occurred more despite the covenant than because of it. public and private investment needs to be strengthened in the areas of innovation, education, development of new skills and technologies, in line with the lisbon strategy. intergovernmental cooperation and the coordination of economic policies at european union level are fundamental instruments and are still not sufficiently taken up. it also regrets that this priority for growth has not been sufficiently reflected either in the interpretation, as stated in the pact, or, above all, in the financial perspective which we are going to approve in principle tomorrow. the second note concerns the need to further clarify the accounting concepts and practices of the statistical bodies of the member states, i.e. to disseminate good practice, to harmonise concepts, timetables and methodologies. the soundness of public finances is only relevant if it is sustainable in the medium term, which often requires measures of a structural nature. we must stop short-term operations based on extraordinary measures or creative accounting because they destroy credibility and undermine investor and consumer confidence. in short, consolidating public finances is essential, but only if it is sustainable and fully linked to strengthening the european economy and the capacities of its citizens. i think these are two key messages to be taken from the report we are discussing today.
the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs on the interinstitutional agreement is a positive opinion. it should be recalled that the committee on constitutional affairs is called upon to give its opinion on the compatibility of the interinstitutional agreement with the treaties in force, and there are no legal obstacles to its adoption. although it is not for this committee to assess the merits of the agreement, it must be stressed that, at the institutional level, the agreement respects the prerogatives of parliament as an arm of the budgetary authority. in this report parliament insists that the future financial framework should be established for a period of five years, corresponding to the mandates of parliament and the commission. we believe that this is a necessary development for better public scrutiny and democratic control of the union's budgetary options. the compromise reached between the parties will not correspond to the vision and ambition for europe that many members of this parliament, including myself, share. at various points in the negotiations, the positions taken by the council, particularly on financial appropriations, were far from the declarations of intent of the negotiators expressed in successive conclusions of the european councils and in numerous public interventions by national and european politicians. despite the difficulties, parliament was able to secure this satisfactory compromise, which safeguards cohesion as a fundamental principle of the union and the priority given to the lisbon strategy. it is not necessary for parliament to consider the agreement reached perfect in order to give its political assent. with its shortcomings, the current text is a huge step forward from the initial negotiating positions and is infinitely better than the irresponsible prolongation of an interinstitutional iron fist that would have had heavy costs for the union and its citizens. the revision agreed for 2009, which is guaranteed to be fully participated by the european parliament, will cover all aspects of the union's system of resources and expenditure and will necessarily address the question of the reform of own resources. this fundamental debate will benefit from the experience of the implementation of this agreement. the interinstitutional agreement before us was negotiated under exceptionally difficult conditions and is certainly a success and good news for europe, especially in an environment of crisis of projects and leadership that has marked the last years of european life. i would like to pay special tribute to our colleague, mr reimer böge, who with great competence and personal commitment led the negotiations on behalf of parliament on a very complex and wide-ranging subject and in a difficult political context, marked by a crisis of confidence in the european project, deep divergences between the member states and the institutions and a certain confusion about the objectives of the union. (applause) i would like to thank
the agreement reached for the financial framework for 2007-13 included in the interinstitutional agreement is a bad agreement, because it is insufficient from the financial point of view, inadequate in terms of its priorities and its instruments to meet the challenges facing an enlarged union. it is an agreement which does not respond to the increased need for cohesion, nor does it take as a priority the fight against the growing asymmetries and inequalities, unemployment and poverty, which are occurring in the european union. it is a bad agreement for economic and social cohesion and for the cohesion countries, by undermining the redistributive role of the community budget. the structural funds are reduced by eur 28 billion in the light of the european commission's proposal and their share is reduced from 0.41% of community gni under the current framework to 0.37% in the future financial framework and in a european union of 27. the agreement means €100 billion less than the european parliament's original proposal, which negotiated a commitment of only €12 billion to accept only €4, forcing wrong priorities and at the cost of cuts in other budget lines. it is also a bad agreement for countries like portugal, which, in a context of increased competition and faced with the deep crisis it is in, due, among other things, to the restrictions on monetary and budgetary policy that have led to the increase in unemployment and to a divergence since 2000 with the european union, is suffering cuts of more than eur 1 million a day and 15% of community transfers in relation to the current financial framework, not to mention the injustice of the cuts in the algarve region, the victim of the so-called statistical effect. for all these reasons, we can only reject this agreement.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it also defends the stability pact, in particular its 1997 version, in a restricted way, arguing that the 2005 reform has weakened the pact. this blind monetarist and liberal stance, which serves the profits of the large multinational companies operating in the european union and which puts workers (in particular their jobs, their rights and their wages) as a variable of adjustment to crises, is in line with their role in the creation of the single currency and the stability pact. in addition, it is once again apparent that the replacements on the executive board of the ecb are made between the large countries (one german for another german), which, if we add to this the rotation of votes in the council, relegates the small countries to a peripheral and secondary position with regard to monetary decisions in economic and monetary union. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. we support the rejection of the interinstitutional agreement put forward by our group - and voted for by 120 members of this parliament - because, among other reasons, we reject: - a logic that, with each setback, turns every defeat into a mystified "victory", on the pretext that it can always be worse. - the real blackmail of the economically more developed countries of the european union, the so-called 'rich', who imposed the relative reduction of the community budget - and we shall see in the future, if only in absolute terms - when enlargement took place to ten more countries with an average level of economic development below the community average, and preparations are being made for enlargement to two more countries. - a process which increasingly strengthens decision-making at supranational level on monetary, budgetary, economic and social policies - responding to the interests of the economically more developed countries and the large economic and financial groups, which are increasingly out of step with the rights, needs and aspirations of workers and peoples in the various eu countries - and which at the same time, and in the end in a consistent way, reduces the financial means which could help to minimise the consequences of (unacceptable) capitalist competition between countries with a very different level of economic development.
in writing. the european parliament's negotiating position on the financial perspective for 2007-2013, as expressed in its resolution of 8 june 2005, contained quantitative, structural and qualitative elements intended to supplement it and considered to be 'non-negotiable points'. in its resolution of 18 january 2006, rejecting the european council's agreement of december 2005, the european parliament declared its 'determination to defend' these elements by expressing its 'readiness to enter into constructive negotiations with the council'. it was worth it! while recognising that the final outcome of the negotiations, particularly in terms of the quantitative elements, falls short of the position adopted in june, overall this was a success. in view of the need and urgency to reach an agreement, it was the only compromise possible. the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals for the future. most of the qualitative elements are reflected in the new interinstitutional agreement. of these, parliament's full participation in the 2009 revision is noteworthy, as it will enable it to find solutions to the remaining deficits and improve the next financial perspective, in pursuit of the objective of the negotiating position, which remains. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the proposals for the financial perspective (2007-2013) which we have put forward since the start of the negotiations are as follows: - to ensure that the community budget is at a level which, on the basis of national contributions in accordance with the relative wealth of each country (based on its gnp), plays a redistributive role and gives priority to the real approximation of the levels of economic development of the various countries and to an effective improvement in the living conditions of their workers and populations. - a fundamental change in the common agricultural policy aimed at safeguarding the right of each country to ensure its food sovereignty and security by introducing modulation and capping of agricultural aid and ensuring a fair redistribution of agricultural aid between farmers, production and countries. - the end of the conditionality of the cohesion fund to the stability pact and the non-application of the n+2 (or 3) rule to this fund and the structural funds. - full compensation for regions which will suffer the so-called statistical effect, such as the algarve. - portugal should not lose community funding and a specific programme should be set up to modernise the portuguese economy in the context of enlargement. the community framework adopted is contrary to these objectives and needs. hence our rejection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the böge report on the interinstitutional agreement because i consider it to be the greatest common denominator after lengthy negotiations at trilogue level. i cannot, however, fail to express my deep concern at the apparent divergence between the provisions of the agreement reached in december and their practical application. in particular, there seems to be a discrepancy in the allocation of funds to the algarve region at the moment, in the context of the exceptional measures approved for the statistical regions. the algarve region will be seriously affected by the european commission's interpretation of the december agreement, which could lead to it being treated much worse than any other objective 2 region, and even less so than being phased out. in the interests of transparency and good interinstitutional cooperation, i consider it of the utmost importance to clarify the interpretative assumptions of the contents of the financial package 2007-2013.
in writing. today, in view of the content of the agreement reached between the european parliament (ep) and the council of ministers (cm), i voted in favour of ratifying it for the following reasons: 1a. the excellent negotiation by portugal and madeira is safeguarded. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the budget by eur 4 billion (ecu) to the expenditure ceiling. 3a. rules are laid down to ensure that member states are more responsible for the management of european money. 4a- the ep is given a greater role in the review of the community budget to be carried out by 2009. i would remind you that i was one of those who voted for the ep's decision to reject the budget agreement reached by the heads of state and government in mid-december 2005, thus forcing the cm to sit down at the negotiating table with the ep, with the aim of reaching a position that would be the expression of the common will of both institutions. i would like to conclude by stressing that this agreement is far from satisfactory to me. however, it is the possible agreement under the present circumstances.
in writing. if politics is the art of the possible, the search for an agreement on the financial framework of the european union for 2007-13 has proved to be the art of the possible minimum, which is not a reason for satisfaction. the european union has been undergoing a process of enlargement to new countries and political integration in recent years, which should necessarily be matched by an increase in its financial dimension. the project of prosperity and security which the eu represents for its citizens needs, in order to be real, a corresponding financial framework, sufficient for its new dimensions. the idea of solidarity, which has always been part of the design of the european union's financial instruments, is justified both by its objective of fairness and by its objective of promoting a balanced and effective internal market. in view of these considerations, and in particular the impossibility of exceeding the limited budgetary result, i join my vote in favour to this regret and to the wish that the whole budgetary structure be reviewed in good time, in particular with a view to promoting, through the revision of the expenditure chapter, a more development-friendly economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a financial perspective for 2007-13. however, i still believe that the proposal initially approved by the european parliament was much more advantageous for the european union, not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of methodology. the proposal adopted by parliament is the consequence of the definition of policies and priorities and, in this sense, is the true expression of a policy, whereas the council decision is more the sum of the member states' demands and therefore loses in quality. i voted in favour of the proposal because, despite this fact, it would be very unfortunate if the european institutions did not have a medium-term financial framework, which is a fundamental instrument for preparing projects linked to development. another important reason for voting in favour of the proposal has to do with the commitment to review both revenue and expenditure. i attach the utmost importance to this point, since i have repeatedly expressed the idea that the current way of financing the european union has run out. for the first time it has become clear that this reform will be of major importance and will involve the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure because i believe that the outcome of the negotiations on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is overall positive for the 450 million european citizens. there are no ideal budgets. in the current economic and political context of the european union this is a good deal for europe and for portugal, which will receive 22.5 billion euros over these seven years. in addition to the quantitative gains over the previous council proposal, there are qualitative advantages which portugal will also benefit from. on the other hand, any delay in the decision would mean delays in the use of community funds to solve people's problems. european citizens (and portuguese in particular) would not understand any more delays.
in writing. the compromise adopted today introduces a number of amendments which improve the original text of the commission proposal, in particular by including more environmentally friendly means of transport such as rail and inland waterway in the scope of this regulation and by taking account of the needs of smes and the most isolated and sensitive regions, with a view to ensuring better economic and social cohesion. however, in view of these important amendments and without forgetting that, as stated in the article - 'this regulation establishes a financial instrument (...) with the aim of reducing congestion, improving the environmental performance of the transport system and enhancing intermodal transport, thus contributing to an efficient and sustainable transport system (...) ' - we cannot agree to the drastic reduction of the budget allocation for the programme (it should be recalled that the initial allocation was eur 740 million and the amount approved today is only eur 400 million, which corresponds to a reduction of 46%). when we talk about fighting climate change, about complying with the kyoto protocol and developing more environmentally friendly means of transport, we find that we do not give the necessary support to the realisation of these objectives.
in writing. this report follows the commission's initial proposal of december 2004, which had two objectives: to extend the period of validity of the transitional measures and to lay down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, one of the central issues of which is the prohibition on feeding processed animal protein to farmed animals. the undertaking adopted today lays down a set of rules on breeding programmes for the selection of resistance to tse or for the export and import of feed. however, and despite the food and veterinary crises which have occurred in recent years with consequences for public and animal health, it is in the interests of feed business operators to allow derogations from the general ban in force, in particular by allowing the use of fishmeal and by giving the commission the possibility of partial derogations such as for young ruminants. we disagree with this position, which, in addition to the problems already mentioned, raises questions about the model of intensive and vertical development of production, which is now clearly evident in agriculture and fisheries. that is why we abstained.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague dariusz rosati on his important and timely report on public finances in economic and monetary union, which i support, particularly as regards the need to make concerted efforts to increase the effectiveness of preventive and corrective policy measures aimed at strengthening and consolidating public finances in the eu. the failure to implement the necessary reforms has reduced growth and employment and put pressure on public finances. this question will only be resolved when it is considered by all member states to be a matter of common interest to the european union.
in writing. the situation of european public finances remains precarious and largely unchanged. european growth remains worryingly slow. the decline in deficits we are witnessing reflects only economic adjustments arising from expectations of higher economic growth and not the structural reforms needed and vital to the future of the european economy. the report thus recalls the implications for growth, employment and macroeconomic stability of public finances and calls on the commission and the member states to work together and take measures to counteract the slow growth of the european economy and provide a positive environment for the smooth functioning of the single currency. these are key measures for a strong and stable european economy capable of providing new business and employment opportunities for its citizens. we cannot, however, forget the difficulties that several member states have had in recent years in keeping public deficits within the levels of the stability and growth pact. this is another reason why we should be following this matter with concern and call on the commission and the member states to take structural measures and to propose a real coordination of economic policies. i therefore voted in favour of mr rosati's report.
the howitt report contains a new approach to how europe views its fight for a global culture of human rights. this approach abandons the purely descriptive method and confronts the european institutions with the effectiveness of their own action. more institutional integration of the union, a political, not just a technical, relationship with the council of europe, a binding charter of rights. this is the basis of a european front that takes rights seriously. the european parliament today calls for the mobilization of all european political institutions in this great endeavour to extend the sacred principles of humanity and the rule of law to the world. because europe cannot justify itself. the enlightenment ideal which underlies it imposes on it this crusade for rights throughout the world, it also imposes on it courage against the temptation of realpolitik because a policy of interests leads to an unequal demand on the states in terms of rights. i would like to say how essential it is for the union and each of the member states to take coherent action on human rights, because there are still many contradictions in this area and contradictions diminish the moral authority of the union's political system in its dialogue with its partners and weaken the impact of european policy. the union presidencies have a great responsibility to ensure the coherence of the human rights policies of the union and its states. a strong and well-coordinated european policy on rights would face the list of horrors which, unfortunately, are not exclusive to the underdeveloped countries. the death penalty or even the exploitation of labour which leads to the relocation of undertakings, to give two very different examples, can only be met by a concerted and combative policy on rights. moreover, a europe which is increasingly ambitious in terms of military presence can only be a europe which is increasingly ambitious in terms of a culture of rights, a political europe which has man at its centre, because that is the nature of europe.
madam president, the idea that six regulations that are not subject to codecision and concern a range of detailed topics could be integrated into a single regulation and be labelled part of the better regulation effort is unacceptable to my group. do the commission and the council really believe that better regulation is achieved by cutting the european parliament out of the procedure altogether? how can you bring the eu closer to its citizens whilst attempting to take powers from the only directly elected eu institution, whose members have the closest contact with the european citizens? this parliament cannot give up its competence and scrutinising role. we need to maintain democratic oversight and, indeed, build on our responsibilities in development and external actions. seven months are left before the external actions regulations should come into force. let us see the commission put its money where its mouth is and allow parliament adequate time to legislate on the proposals which, let us remember, the commission is desperate to have but has not yet formally put forward. the commission and the council should pay attention: this parliament will not be blackmailed on the human rights and democracy instrument. furthermore, giving up codecision would mark a dangerous step backwards for the development of the european union as a whole. this parliament will not allow that to happen.
i must say that i am very surprised to hear this answer. i would remind you that four or five years ago, when i put a similar question to the european commission concerning the united states, i was told that the council, through the group specialising in consular matters, was dealing with the matter. so we are witnessing a concept that is going backwards; a european citizenship that existed, that was taken into account four or five years ago, and that is no longer taken into account now. i'd like to understand how that's possible.
commissioner, mr rapporteur, i also congratulate you on your excellent proposal, particularly as regards transatlantic relations, a major priority which has sometimes been forgotten and which has fortunately been recalled here by our rapporteur. i think, in any case, that the big question before us is that we have a proposal before us which falls short of what was done last year and which also falls short of the limit imposed on us by the financial perspective. i believe that in the new framework we are embarking on we cannot in any way allow the practices of the past, where we systematically did not use the whole of the financial framework, to continue to be current. i think it is essential that, in the face of a financial framework which we all know is extremely limited in relation to european ambitions, we should be able to demand its full use and, from this point of view, i think the european commission has a key role to play, and i would therefore like to call on the commission not to submit projects which fall short of the ceilings of the financial frameworks.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also congratulate mrs krehl on her excellent report, which expresses parliament's concerns about the definition of the community strategic guidelines which should guide the implementation of economic and social cohesion policy in the period 2007-13. i would like to make a few comments on a particular issue which concerns me, namely the risk of subordinating cohesion policy almost exclusively to the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the risk is real and must not be ignored, lest we pervert to some extent the idea of solidarity and the idea of balanced and harmonious territorial development, which are the strong ideas of cohesion policy. indeed, if the predominant factor is the logic of competitiveness which informs the lisbon strategy, there is a risk of channelling structural funds first and foremost to the disadvantaged regions with the greatest development potential, to the detriment of the regions with the least development potential. this may be particularly true in the new enlargement countries whose territory consists only of convergence objective regions. i therefore call for the necessary balance between competitiveness and solidarity.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the many positive contributions from colleagues in the various political groups, as well as the competent support of the staff of the committee on agriculture who worked with me on the preparation of this report. the enormous scale of some of the disasters that have occurred in recent years, and particularly in the last year, has led the european parliament to devote its due attention to this subject. three committees were appointed to present, each from its own perspective, solutions to prevent disasters or to minimize their consequences when they cannot be avoided. it has been a very motivating job that i have been engaged in for the last six or seven months listening to many colleagues, experts, economic agents, local, regional and national authorities and affected populations. i have also had the opportunity to visit the six member states most affected last year, spain, portugal, germany, austria, france and italy. i am very pleased to note the welcome we have received in all the places we have been to and i am sure that our action has been useful to our institution, bringing the european parliament closer to the citizens. i have also tried to ensure that there is as broad a consensus as possible on the proposals i am presenting to you. i was pleased to accept almost all of the amendments tabled, 53 out of 60, and of the few that were excluded, most were excluded for formal reasons of redundancy or duplication and not precisely because of their content. the report under discussion is based on the following three main assumptions: first, agriculture and forestry are activities in symbiosis with nature and are therefore particularly exposed to the effects of climate change, which is exacerbated by the climate change context in which we live, and to the bio-health risks arising from air, water and soil pollution and which are exacerbated by increasing globalisation. secondly, rural exodus is one of the main causes of the increase in forest fires in southern europe, a situation that is particularly acute during times of drought, as the year 2005 unfortunately proved. the budgetary limits of the european union must also be respected, which is why the proposals put forward are compatible with the financial perspective which we adopted here yesterday. i therefore propose, in essence, that existing policy instruments such as the solidarity fund, the european agricultural fund and rural development fund, the veterinary fund, regional policy instruments and the future life+ regulation be optimized by improving them and adapting them to the context of genuine disaster and risk management systems, and in the latter case by the communityisation of an insurance and reinsurance system to be co-financed by farmers, the member states and the european union through the eafrd. the solidarity fund will have to be broader and more flexible, and will have to cover catastrophes of slow development, such as drought, which is not included at the moment, for example. to make it more effective, it should be accompanied by a flexibility clause which, from the appropriations not currently used by the common agricultural policy, can guarantee it adequate financial means when necessary. the eafrd, for its part, should give priority to financing, with the greatest possible co-financing through national rural development programmes, actions aimed at afforestation and reforestation of burnt trees, as well as all preventive measures such as clearing of forests, combining it with the use of biomass to produce energy, in addition, of course, to training and information for the economic operators involved and raising the awareness of the population of this type of problem. these are just a few aspects, very briefly summarized, which illustrate the importance of the agricultural approach to disasters from the point of view of the european parliament and which i hope can count on the widest possible support from this house. i hope that the commission and the council will give due consideration to these proposals in accordance with the requirements of the circumstances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the methodology used to draw up these three reports, in particular the visits we made to the six countries affected by natural disasters and the public hearing held in brussels, has already been mentioned here. in our countries too, at least in portugal, we have held public hearings to gather suggestions, information and proposals from the various parties involved. i would also like to thank the members for their support, their suggestions, their amendments and the technicians who have helped to improve my report. the climate is changing, the year is no longer compartmented into the traditional four seasons. successive days of drought alternate with days of torrential rains and these with heat waves. climate change is at the root of natural disasters, such as floods, extreme droughts and fires, which have occurred worldwide with great frequency and caused severe damage in terms of human losses, environmental degradation and reduced economic activity. this is one of the great problems of our time. the year 2005 began with the world in a state of shock at the scale of the tragedy caused by the asian tsunami. the identification of the dead and the search for survivors went on for several months. in the summer, several fires destroyed hundreds of thousands of acres of forest in portugal, france, and spain, and violent floods spread devastation and death in countries such as germany and austria. outside europe, hurricane katrina caused unprecedented destruction in some u.s. states, and before the year was out, afghanistan was rocked by a violent earthquake. in addition to earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, floods and fires, other phenomena associated with climate change and global warming are causing sea level rise in coastal areas and the disappearance of beaches. studies published in the journal science reveal that sea levels could rise 20 feet by 2100 because the arctic and antarctic ice sheets are melting faster and faster. to avoid the worst, serious and immediate measures are needed to curb greenhouse gas emissions and to comply with the kyoto protocol. the commissioner mentioned the water shortage. it is also necessary to ensure a more sustainable, rational and efficient use of water. more than a billion people struggle daily for survival because they lack access to safe drinking water. four hundred million are children. waterborne diseases kill a child every 15 seconds and are associated with many diseases and malnutrition. the allocation of resources between the different domestic, industrial and agricultural users must be studied and discussed, and waste must be combated. it is essential to raise awareness among citizens so that they can take part in preventing these disasters, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as i have already said, by protecting the forest and by not building in risk areas. natural disasters have no borders and their environmental consequences affect neighbouring countries as well. given that community action must complement that of national authorities, whether in prevention, planning and intervention, or rehabilitation and follow-up, it is also necessary to strengthen coordination at all levels, improve the existing system and develop early warning systems. despite the specificity of each region and the diversity of the situations encountered, there are common needs to be addressed, such as the definition of risk assessment mechanisms and the drawing up of drought, forest fire and flood maps. the definition of prevention systems to combat the causes of natural disasters and to improve urban planning, especially in coastal and risk areas, such as the preservation of natural ecosystems, the strengthening of cooperation in civil protection between member states and within the european union to ensure that additional means of rapid mobilisation are available to deal with emergency situations, the flexibility and simplification of the rules for the application of instruments such as the solidarity fund and the forest focus programme, are many other proposals in my report and which i hope will naturally be supported, first and foremost, by parliament, the commission and the council.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, my colleagues edite estrela, capoulas santos and galeote quecedo, on the excellent work they have done, which may have in some way contributed to a solution that could have been more interesting, which was also proposed in this parliament and which was not adopted. the natural disasters which have struck europe in recent years (drought, forest fires and floods) deserve special attention from the european parliament as regards their impact on agricultural activity. as the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, has rightly pointed out, agricultural and forestry production, unlike other economic activities, is closely linked to nature and is therefore more vulnerable to natural disasters. i therefore believe that, after recent experience, european agriculture should be the subject of a new approach to the prevention and response to natural disasters. the current national mechanisms are often inadequate and the supranational response mechanisms of one-off application end up being inefficient. the solidarity fund, which we have already discussed here today and will certainly continue to discuss, is currently under review and it is hoped that it will include drought in its scope. at a time when climate change is already making itself felt and when the vulnerability of farmers to these dangers is becoming increasingly relevant, i consider it of the utmost importance to draw up a community strategy against natural disasters. it is therefore essential that a community programme on forest protection and fire prevention be set up in the next financial framework, with a view to encouraging action to raise awareness, prevent and manage fire risks and with adequate funding. this community programme could be financed by a specific regulation with its own financing or by the individual allocation of a budget line at the level of the eafrd or leader+, as an oral amendment will be presented. the european parliament must therefore give a clear answer to the people it represents, who have suffered directly from natural disasters and who naturally expect our support.
on behalf of the pse group. dear commission, dear members, in recent years europe has been affected by natural disasters which have caused hundreds of deaths and considerable economic and environmental damage to the affected regions. portugal in particular, together with other mediterranean regions, experienced the driest year in the last 105 years in 2005. in december, about 87% of the portuguese territory was in a state of extreme drought. this situation was particularly severe in the algarve region, where the climatic conditions were exceptional, with the combination of high temperatures and dry air. in the algarve, the natural disaster of the drought in 2005, preceded in 2003 by the devastation caused by forest fires, had serious repercussions on local infrastructure, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and agricultural and tourist activities. the water supply to the population has been clearly affected, both in terms of scarcity and compliance with the required quality standards. it is well known that natural disasters occur when extreme weather conditions affect a vulnerable area. it is therefore urgent to reduce the fragility of these regions. european cooperation in civil protection is needed to provide a rapid response to affected areas and to increase prevention and rapid response preparedness in emergency situations. this is what these owninitiative reports are intended to do and to articulate. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the social dimension in the european union. with this in mind, it is important to recognise that almost all the affected areas are classified areas by the european union and that after the devastation we cannot simply consider that our civil responsibility has been fulfilled. the restoration of lost ecosystems is crucial to the balance of these areas and this also requires solidarity. it is also crucial to increase information and awareness among people and regions vulnerable to natural disasters, to reduce the risks and consequences of natural disasters and to make them aware of what they can do to preserve the natural resources in the region. solidarity has been a keyword in the european union since the treaty of rome. let us not, however, let it become just another empty word in the community jargon.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we have tabled amendments to the report on the solidarity fund because we consider that in its current version it does not cover aspects which we consider to be of the utmost importance, in particular the maintenance of the criterion of regional disasters. the new proposal for the solidarity fund should address the difficulties encountered in applying it since its creation in 2002. we believe that the fund should be adapted to the specificities and real needs of the various countries facing disasters of a very different and particular nature, such as those on the mediterranean coast. we have therefore put forward a proposal which aims precisely at reintroducing the consideration of extraordinary regional disasters, as provided for in the current fund regulation. it should be stressed that this position is shared by the opinion of the economic and social council which considers it necessary to continue to take account of disasters with a serious regional impact and that, in the same vein, the report on natural disasters by the committee on regional development under discussion today considers that the fund should be considered when the majority of the population of a region is the victim of a disaster with serious and lasting repercussions on their living conditions. the portuguese parliament also adopted a resolution which considers that the possibility of supporting regional disasters with a significant socioeconomic and environmental impact in disadvantaged regions of the european union should be maintained. we have also put forward proposals to make the promotion of support for the restoration of productive activity in areas affected by disasters and the emergency provision of ground and airborne forest firefighting equipment expressly eligible for support. finally, we proposed that, as is the case with the structural and cohesion fund regulations, the allocation of the amount of financial assistance under the solidarity fund should take account of the level of economic and social development of a region or a member state. among other things, the new proposal for a regulation only stresses that we consider it a negative step to extend the scope of the fund without increasing its financial ceiling. we also believe that priority should be given to natural disasters. we consider it a bad thing that the mobilization threshold is being lowered in such a way that the countries of the european union with the highest gross domestic product are clearly the most beneficiaries.
mr president, i would like to ask for a roll-call vote on the motion for a resolution.
the commission's proposal is based on a consensus and the pooling of various contributions and i would like to make an addition which is consensual among the main political families in this parliament in order to clarify the meaning of this point. i 'm reading the addendum: 'requests that this community programme be translated into concrete measures to allocate funding to appropriate actions to prevent forest fire risks, either by creating a specific regulation with adapted funding, or by allocating a budget line for these actions within the eafrd or the draft life+ regulation.'
i would also like to ask for a roll-call vote on the final resolution.
in writing. the report sets out the ep's position on the community's strategic guidelines for cohesion policy for the period 2007-13. my position as an alternate member of the committee on regional development and as a permanent member of the committee on transport and tourism and as shadow rapporteur for this report in the latter was firm in calling for the need to decentralise european economic growth and competitiveness away from the centre of the community area so as to cover all regions, especially the less prosperous ones. i also believe that only a strengthening of the existing financial measures, specifically designed to mitigate the negative effect on regional economies of the dispersion, small size and great distance of the outermost regions from the european continent, will enable these regions to make a decisive contribution to sustainable job creation and economic growth in the eu. in other words, i believe that a better and more effective union requires better policies and more resources, in the context of sustainable development, contributing to economic and territorial cohesion, the ultimate objective of cohesion policy as enshrined in the treaties. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs krehl.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for the community strategic guidelines for 2007-2013 - on which the member states will base their structural funds operational programmes - is clear about subordinating cohesion policy to the financing of the 'lisbon strategy', in the interests of the big european employers. competitiveness, privatisation, reducing the public sector and the 'burden of the state', public-private partnerships, support for the infrastructure of newly privatised sectors, labour flexibility, among others, are now the objectives of the pseudo-cohesion policy. the consequences of the change in priority in the funds - subordinating 'economic and social cohesion' - are far more important than they may at first appear, even if there are some concerns that this will not be to the detriment of 'cohesion'. the report initially clearly rejected the idea that at least 60% of the structural funds for convergence regions (75% for the remaining regions) should be used to finance the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it has now accepted this criterion since the european parliament approved the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. that is why we voted against.
in writing. we are concerned about the grouping together in a single instrument of resources and guidelines for developing countries and for industrialized and transition countries, and about their subsequent regulation according to their geopolitical and economic 'roles', especially as this is associated with the over-valuation of the economic and trade dimension which the rapporteur intends to include in the regulation. this is the way to promote a development policy where the eu's economic and geostrategic interests override the interests of the peoples and countries with which it has relations. moreover, it is proposed to 'cooperate with the international financial institutions' by demonstrating support for the policy of reform and structural adjustment promoted by them, which is embodied, for example, in the plundering of the natural resources and wealth of many countries, the exploitation of the labour force, the privatisation of essential goods or services such as water, health, social security. in a more or less camouflaged way, an attempt is being made to export and intensify capitalist exploitation and the current neoliberal model under the guise of 'consolidating the rule of law' and 'correct governance'. the set of priorities and general principles laid down give rise to the greatest concern and reluctance as regards the set of 'simplified regulations' to be drawn up subsequently.
in writing. the practical result of the vote on this report is that the disagreement between parliament - and in particular the deve committee - and the european commission on financial instruments for economic cooperation and development continues. it is important, therefore, to be concerned with what we think the final outcome of this discussion should be. it is not enough to know whether there are one or two instruments, depending on whether the countries are industrialized or not, what is important is that the european union is aware of its financial limitations - which are all too evident in the next financial framework - and that, for that very reason, it sets clear priorities and criteria for action. since it is not possible to deal with all situations, priority regions and programmes must be identified. this, more than the number of programmes, is the essential question. moreover, international cooperation is not an exercise in competition between eventual world powers. above all, it must be a coherent expression of a foreign policy which is in keeping with values, principles and priorities.
in writing. the portuguese members of the european socialist group (esp) abstained from voting on the report on the eu solidarity fund because, although this fund is an instrument of the utmost importance for european solidarity policy, it has not been subject to the necessary reforms to make it more effective and operational in relation to its objectives. on the other hand, although we have accepted proposals for the inclusion of drought in the report under consideration, including some which we ourselves have put forward, we have not paid due attention to the phenomena of extreme drought and high temperatures, to the natural disasters which have struck several european countries, particularly in southern europe, and which, because of their slow development, are rarely felt in a short period of time. they also consider that the elimination of the regional criterion from the scope of the regulation, to be merely a political criterion, is clearly insufficient. this change was a loss for the objective of restoring (with the support of this instrument) economic, social and territorial cohesion in the affected areas. we would like to stress, however, that some developments have been made in the doctrine and, with them, the recognition of its specificity.
in writing. we regret that some of the proposals we have put forward have been rejected, namely:- the maintenance of the eligibility of regional disasters in the solidarity fund; and - the possibility of higher levels of financial assistance from this fund (75% of total eligible costs instead of 50%) for the 'cohesion' countries and for the 'convergence' regions. it should be noted that the same european parliament approved on the same day (the 'quecedo' report) the view that 'eusf intervention should be possible even when disasters, although serious, do not reach the minimum required level, and that it should be possible to provide assistance in exceptional circumstances when the majority of the population of a specific region is the victim of a disaster with serious and lasting repercussions on living conditions'. this contradiction between the content of the resolutions adopted - legislative and non-legislative - is full of meaning. in other words, when it comes to stating good intentions - as in the 'quecedo' report - the majority of this parliament approves, but when it comes to making its implementation and financing operational - as in the 'berend' report - the majority of parliament takes the obvious for granted, rejecting the regional dimension of the fund and clearly benefiting the large countries, the majority of which are represented in this parliament.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the report on the european union solidarity fund because i believe that the revision of this instrument has fallen short of the necessary and urgent expectations in the face of the unpredictable and unforeseen natural disasters that have been plaguing the community. this review should have taken account of the seriousness of the events we are witnessing, from the fires that have devastated entire forests to the droughts that have lasted for years and the torrential rains that have ravaged entire regions of europe. however, we are facing a review which has not taken into account the reforms needed to make it more effective or operational. despite the timely inclusion of drought in this instrument, i believe that this slow and little noticeable phenomenon of development in the short term has not been given due attention. the extreme drought has so far affected france, italy, spain and portugal. finally, by giving preference to the political rather than the regional criteria, the opportunity is lost of using this instrument to achieve a proper recovery of the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the areas affected.
in writing. although it contains aspects with which we agree - such as the need to safeguard the fundamental rights of the sarawi people and a just and sustainable solution to the conflict in western sahara, based on the right of the sarawi people to self-determination, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the security council, in particular resolution 1495 - this report, as in previous years, has been characterized as an exercise of hypocrisy, serving as a weapon of pressure and political interference, whereby the so-called 'friendly' countries are safeguarded and the 'others', those whom the us and the eu target, are criticised. exercise with which we cannot agree! the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. the european parliament has therefore no word of condemnation for the israeli government for its occupation and oppression of palestine.
in writing. the extraordinary role played by the european union as a whole, as well as by individual member states, in promoting human rights worldwide is one of the things we all as europeans and as citizens of the world should be proud of. the balance, we know, is positive. the european parliament has traditionally, every year, drawn up a list of human rights violations in the world, and has thus neglected its duty to monitor and control the activities of the community institutions. it is true that, without prejudice to the continuing concern about human rights violations, the main duty of this parliament is to ascertain the usefulness of our efforts to combat these violations. so while i welcome this new approach, i believe that it will only be truly effective when it is combined with a real assessment of the impact of eu action at international level on human rights, both in the short, medium and long term. the consequence of our actions is one of the key elements of its validity. in politics, good intentions not only don't come, they can be a form of waste.
in writing. the report on the 2007 budgetary guidelines - the first of the 2007-13 financial framework - is conditional on the most important aspects of the agreement on the financial perspective. unfortunately, and unsurprisingly, the 2007 guidelines give substance in budgetary terms to the eu's policies: capitalist competition, liberalisation, interference and militarisation, security policies. the ep's majority therefore, unsurprisingly, rejected the finding that 'the lisbon strategy has proved largely unsuccessful in achieving its proclaimed objectives of average economic growth of 3%, full employment through the creation of 20 million new jobs'. it rejected the evidence that this 'strategy' is 'the main instrument for promoting the liberalisation and privatisation of public utilities, as well as the flexibility and adaptability of labour markets, wage moderation and the opening to private interests of the core of social security benefits, including pensions and health care'. even in the management of community programmes and agencies, the policy of the lowest cost is maintained (will it be?), promoting the 'outsourcing' and 'contracting' of services in such an obsessive way that even entities that support the eu's propaganda effort are at risk of being closed or privatised.
in writing. the situation expressed in this report reveals how all the shortcomings relating to the adoption of the financial perspectives 2007-2013 have brought additional and unnecessary difficulties to the functioning of the european union. first of all, the apparent discrepancy between the union's budget and its increased responsibilities can only have negative consequences for the eu's capacity to act and, therefore, for its image with the citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. without values it is difficult to understand to what extent the options set out are being pursued. we are therefore faced with a double difficulty. given the circumstances, this was inevitable, so we have to draw the necessary lessons for the future from this situation, the main lesson being that we must first agree on the union's major objectives and aims and the policies which should follow them, so that we can then agree on the necessary funds in good time.
in writing. after natural disasters occurred almost everywhere in europe, since the creation of the solidarity fund in 2002 we have noticed the inadequacies of this instrument, given the unpredictable nature of these phenomena. the climate vulnerability of agriculture has thus been highlighted in recent years with cases of extreme drought in portugal, spain, italy and france. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to set up a disaster management system, together with a risk management system and finally a system of aid to stabilise these crisis situations. finally, training for prevention is also of paramount importance in these cases. within the civil protection measures, the forest focus programme and the rural development programmes we have the framework for the necessary measures to raise awareness among the population and to provide training and information for the prevention of the technicians who will be responsible for managing these crises, so it is necessary to use all the measures, both existing and those now proposed. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr capoulas santos' report.
in writing. whereas the following issues are recognised in this report: (1) the 'specific nature of natural disasters of a mediterranean nature'; (2) the need to adapt community instruments for prevention, investigation and risk management, civil protection and solidarity; (3) the need to carry out an exhaustive survey of the areas most vulnerable to prolonged droughts and fires; (4) the need to adapt future strategies appropriately to the outermost and peripheral regions and to the most disadvantaged areas of the convergence objective; 5 - the need to create a forest fire protection programme with a view to developing a more focused and concerted pan-european culture of forest fire risk prevention and management, in order to complement existing national instruments; 6 - the need to set up a european drought and desertification observatory within the activities of the 7th framework programme for research (2007-2013); 7 - the need to alert member states to the need to comply with their rural development plans and to include in those plans proposals to address demographic decline and low levels of labour requalification, neglect, deforestation and excessive land fragmentation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. we are very pleased that several of our proposals have been accepted, including: - the safeguarding of the solidarity fund, which should continue to provide for intervention in the event of disasters where, although significant, the damage does not reach the minimum required level, but where there are obvious serious and lasting repercussions on the living conditions of the population of a specific region, in which case extraordinary aid may be granted; - the existence of a wide network of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and an agricultural policy promoting more sustainable production methods, in particular in the use of water and soil, which is a fundamental condition for combating the effects of drought and forest fires; - the establishment of a community programme for forest fire protection, in the next financial framework 2007-2013, promoting actions to prevent and raise awareness of forest fire risks, complementing the specific forestry and agricultural policy, taking into account the structural and financial aspects of the mediterranean forest. we therefore voted in favour of the report, although we regret that other proposals of ours were not adopted and would have supplemented the report in defending policies to support farmers affected by disasters.
in writing. the following points were confirmed by a vote in the ep plenary: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide assistance to the countries of the mediterranean region in the event of natural disasters. 4. the maintenance of the eligibility of regional disasters in the solidarity fund;5. the adaptation of the solidarity fund, in terms of timelines and eligible actions, to the specificity of natural disasters such as drought and fires; 6. giving special attention to the most disadvantaged regions in the event of natural disasters. it is noted that, on the proposal of members from the eu countries of central and northern europe, and despite our vote against, the consideration of the specificity of the mediterranean forest, which we had previously been able to ensure, was mitigated. in good portuguese, another example of how "whoever has nails plays the guitar", or how the differentiated number of members from each country, with the predominance of the countries of central and northern europe, is decisive in this "federalist" parliament to call into question the interests of the mediterranean countries, where more than 90% of forest fires occur.
in writing. i support the report by mrs edite estrela, which, although it does not introduce any technical innovations in the management and prevention of natural disasters, does make an important assessment of the possibilities and knowledge currently available. i think that the proposals for the creation of directives on the prevention and management of fires and also on drought are very positive, and i think that they are very important for the advance planning and more efficient response to possible natural disasters. the proposal for the creation of a european observatory on drought, desertification, floods and other climatic effects, which should play a key role in the study and coordination of best practices in civil protection, is also welcome. this report deals mainly with the problem of forest fires and drought, with some references to the problem of floods, and is therefore of particular importance for portugal and the other mediterranean countries.
in writing. we consider it essential that a community programme for the protection of forests against the scourge of forest fires be set up in the next financial framework 2007-13 with a view to promoting actions to raise awareness, prevent and manage forest fire risks. this programme must be adequately funded and complementary to agricultural and structural policy, taking also into account the specific nature of the mediterranean forest. we therefore call for the solidarity fund to pay particular attention, particularly with regard to the time limits and eligible actions, to natural disasters of mediterranean specificity, including drought and forest fires. the solidarity fund should also continue to provide assistance in the event of disasters which, although significant, do not reach the minimum required level, and aid may be provided in exceptional circumstances where the majority of the population of a specific region is affected by a disaster with serious and lasting repercussions on the living conditions of citizens. although the report does not answer all these questions, we voted in favour of it as a positive contribution, even if it is insufficient.
in writing. natural disasters are crises that can strike at any time and occur without any warning. we must therefore take measures to prevent it, and it is by looking at the examples of disasters of this kind that my country and other countries in the european union have suffered that i and the rapporteur call for effective prevention measures, in particular through research and technological development and the creation of a european observatory on drought and desertification. indeed, such phenomena have consequences that affect the lives of the affected populations for an indefinite period. that is why the solidarity fund must include extreme drought cases in its instruments and take account of all the necessary aspects of civil protection. in this respect, raising public awareness is essential, but states must show solidarity with each other and act in order to combat, if necessary by common means, these events and the serious repercussions they have on the living conditions of the affected populations. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mrs edite estrela.
i regret that at the end of this debate there is no unanimous position in the european parliament on this matter. i regret that this legal question linked to the wording in article 3 is not in fact the wording that has enabled us to reach consensus. i hope, however, that this lack of consensus does not call into question what was said by my predecessor, comrade pinior, with whom i am in full agreement. there is a public health issue of paramount importance. it is essential to ensure that taiwan is fully integrated into the global safety net, because it is not just those 20 million people who are at increased risk, but all of us are at increased risk because this island is outside our system. that is our fundamental concern and i hope that the european commission will be able to defend it.
i would like to begin by congratulating the prime minister on a rare speech of vision and realism. it touched on several points and it is impossible to discuss them in two minutes, but it was worth it. i will talk about one called the lisbon strategy, and it is perhaps the point where we risk being the most ridiculous in the last five years. the lisbon strategy is a very fine set of intentions, but it has the original sin of not being community, as i have said. it is the original sin, but then we have the mortal sin of not correcting it, of not giving the commission the responsibility and the means to make proposals as in the internal market or the single currency. we continue to confuse, and i know the prime minister understands this language, intentions with concrete and demonstrable objectives and we confuse objectives with the activities that are necessary to achieve them. if we continue with the rhetoric in the lisbon strategy, instead of concrete measures, we can have good governance, good institutions and good ideas. we will have no jobs, no satisfaction of our citizens.
the dominant forces in the ep continue their 'blind crusade', repeating, to the last, the defence of the - incorrectly named - european constitution, which would reinforce the eu's federalism, neoliberalism and militarism. these forces, and the interests they represent - not by chance, the president of the confederation of european employers (unice) went to the ep to reaffirm to some members his support for the said constitution - continue to insist, against all evidence, that the problem is one of form and not of content. that is to say, the problem is one of communication and perception and not a political problem and one of eu policies. and so, you close your eyes to reality. the resolution they propose to be voted on at the next ep plenary session is clear as to their real objectives. in defiance of the sovereignly expressed will of the french and dutch peoples and others who have prevented them from expressing themselves in the same way, the dominant forces in the ep are preaching the imposition of a constitutional agreement and their support for the european constitution, rejecting amendments and pushing ahead with ratification, particularly in the countries that rejected the treaty - with community funding available - until the ep elections in june 2009. in a word: unacceptable.
europe's greatest ambition is to uphold and defend international law and the humanitarian principle which underlies it. that is another reason why the success of the european project is essential. the fight against terrorism must not weaken the system of individual guarantees which is required by the moral basis of democracy and the rule of law. the greatest danger to democracy is the loss of its moral superiority, and this is also the gravest concession to terrorism. that is why security guarantees cannot be in contradiction with the fundamental values of human rights and must be framed within the discourse of those values. a security policy is destroying, step by step, the enlightenment architecture of political democracies and their potential for the realization of human dignity. and then, the fight against terrorism is not just in the criminal law mechanisms. it is upstream in the formation of a more balanced world order and in the ambitious programme of global justice. europe is therefore the best partner for the united states in achieving an order which puts into effect the principles of international law and the essential sense of civilization. we must therefore have a ruthless dialogue. it is also necessary that the member states of the european union join the council of europe's deliberations on amending the geneva conventions. suspects of terrorism do not, but they should have legal status in those conventions. guantanamo does not define the boundaries of law and policy, but defining the boundaries of law and policy is a basic requirement of the principles of justice. this is the greatest victory of democracy over terrorism. to use the words of simone de beauvoir, "we cannot allow our executioners to create bad habits in us".
i would like to welcome from this platform the portuguese fishermen who, on their national day, are waging a long struggle, paralysing the fishing fleet and demanding that the necessary measures be taken to safeguard the present and future of this strategic sector for portugal, but also for the different countries of the european union. the crisis in the fisheries sector, which has been going on for a long time, due in particular to the way fish is marketed, and in particular to the way the first sale prices are set, has been aggravated by the dizzying rise in fuel prices, which has led to the economic suffocation of the sector and to profound social consequences, particularly in terms of lower wages and higher unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. other mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, my conviction has led me to focus my contribution on the 20 million or so small and mediumsized enterprises which represent 98% of european companies, are responsible for more than 70 million jobs and in many cases are real drivers of innovation. small and mediumsized enterprises are also of inestimable value and cannot be neglected today, since they are the scarce resource that the european economy needs most. i am referring to the ability to undertake, often exercised in very adverse circumstances. i advocated a simplification of procedures. this is essential because there are 18 million businesses in europe with fewer than 10 employees and these companies have a very difficult time accessing this kind of information. with the proposal from the european parliament, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow, for the creation of the user manual, small and mediumsized enterprises will have a clearer, simpler and more transparent framework for the rules of this programme. the members of the committee will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the enlargement of the euro area [2006/2103 (ini) ] (a6-0191/2006) follows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
when the newspapers announce that otmar issing is leaving the ecb but the monetarist legacy is not yet dead, they only confirm what we have been saying, namely that monetarist orientations continue to dominate and impose guidelines on the economic and social policy of the european union, irrespective of the people who make up the body. as is well known, and the langen report confirms it, membership of the euro area requires 'full respect for the maastricht criteria', which implies compliance with the requirements of the stability pact, and compliance with the guidelines of the european central bank, the european monetary authority whose decisions have an impact on all economic life. the report also states that 'the changeover to the euro should not be viewed and planned as a simple technical changeover to another currency but as a major conversion with important economic, monetary and social effects'. the european parliament's maximalism should be emphasized, which advocates the need for the budgetary cycle at national level to be synchronized and based on the same prerogatives: loss of monetary and, therefore, fiscal sovereignty. unfortunately, in portugal we are well aware of this situation and its results, as the recent economic forecasts for spring 2006-2007 confirm. the loss of monetary sovereignty is reflected in the real convergence of economies, serving economic groups, directly and indirectly. that is why we are opposed to this report.
the following is the report by mr grech, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the european parliament for the financial year 2007 [2006/2022 (bud)) ] (a6-0188/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the following is the report by mrs erna hennicot-schoepges, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european year of intercultural dialogue (2008) (com (2005) 0467 - c6-0311/2005 - 2005/0203 (cod)) (a6-0168/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the report by mr alejo vidal-quadras, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy efficiency (green paper) [2005/2210 (ini) ] (a6-0160/2006) is reproduced below.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy saving is indeed a factor that reduces europe's dependence on an essential commodity, contributes to sustainable development and, by avoiding waste, increases competitiveness. these are therefore objectives of great importance and timeliness, as was stressed by the rapporteur and the commissioner. there seems to be convergence of objectives, the biggest problem we face is how to move from objectives to practice, how to change habits and practices of waste. the text we are about to adopt is an important contribution in this respect too. as rapporteur, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his report and his cooperation in accepting a substantial number of proposed amendments, and i would point out only three points: first, the liberalisation of energy markets must be accompanied by the quality of regulation. secondly, the harmonization of standards must also be done at international level. thirdly, fiscal differentiation is needed in favour of more efficient practices and, finally, i think that in policy coherence there should be a place for the structural and cohesion funds to sponsor energy-saving measures and actions, especially in cities, in conjunction with the upgrading and rationalisation of transport systems. there are four suggestions i would like to highlight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the report by mr boguslaw sonik, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the prohibitions resulting from convictions for sexual offences against children [14207/2004 - c6-0244/2004 - 2004/0818 (cns)) [a6-0068/2006]:
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs niebler on her work and also mrs vergnaud, my group's shadow rapporteur. i welcome this initiative by the commission to modernise and simplify community law in the field of equal treatment between women and men in the labour market. there is still a lot of discrimination linked to women's work: wage inequality, difficulty in accessing the labour market itself, especially to well-paid and socially prestigious jobs. and yet the lisbon strategy calls for greater participation of women in the labour market and also more and better jobs for women. thirdly, i would like to reiterate the proposals i made in my reports on the lisbon strategy in the gender perspective and on demographic change. it is urgent that member states adopt measures to enable women to better balance their personal and professional lives. the review of the parental leave directive should help to combat the economic, social and cultural prejudices associated with the right to paternity leave. the member states should introduce paid maternity and paternity leave at the birth or adoption of a child and should naturally follow best practice in terms of the length of maternity leave, which ranges from 14 to 28 weeks, the mandatory period, the amount of pay received during leave and these measures will certainly help to ensure that women are not discriminated against and can have the children they want.
it is essential, mr president, that the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in access to employment and in professional activities should be applied in the various fields, as provided for in the directive we are voting on today, which brings together a number of existing community provisions, including the case law of the european court of justice. the political will to implement the legislative proposals envisaged here is needed in all member states to combat discrimination still existing, in particular in pay, access to employment, vocational training and promotion, including harassment and the sexual harassment that often arises in connection with it, as well as any unfavourable treatment of a woman in connection with pregnancy or maternity. equally important is the recognition that equal treatment in employment and occupation cannot be limited to the adoption of legislative measures and effective legal protection, and also requires awareness campaigns and the creation of child, maternity and paternity support infrastructures and equipment.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on his excellent and timely report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013), which i support, particularly as regards the concern to orient the framework programme towards potential applicants, and thus towards its direct beneficiaries. the potential applicant should be given the opportunity, before the application procedure is introduced, to be clearly informed of the forms of support proposed by the framework programme. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to find a one-stop shop for the framework programme, which will facilitate contact with the partners. i also agree with the rapporteur that the application process must be simplified. finally, i would like to mention the importance of this framework programme for smes in the various regions of the european union and, in particular, for smes in the outermost regions of the eu, which should benefit from this important framework programme in order to help them overcome the heavy constraints affecting them, as set out in article 299 (2) of the ec treaty.
in writing. the commission proposal fills a long-standing gap in public health in the european union, the practical consequences of which have in some cases resulted in dependence on the american or asian pharmaceutical industry. the development of specific medicines for children, rather than the usual dose reduction, provides a better fit to their metabolism and a faster and more effective treatment. the requirement to submit a 'risk management system' for these types of medicines before they are placed on the market creates a very important measure which should allow the avoidance/minimisation of risks and ensure the effectiveness of treatments in such a vulnerable group as the paediatric population. the rapporteur takes due care to ensure that the necessary studies are carried out in order to make the use of these medicinal products appropriate for paediatric use without, however, prejudicing or delaying the development of the same product for adults. at the same time, it allows, in certain cases, a request for a postponement of the submission of the 'paediatric research plan' without delaying the placing on the market of the adult version. i therefore support the commission's proposal and the report by mrs grossetête.
in writing. i voted in favour of the françoise grossetête report on paediatric medicines at second reading because i believe that the design of medicines specifically designed for children should be promoted, taking into account the specificities of their metabolism. the establishment of a paediatric committee within the european medicines agency should ensure the monitoring of scientific research in this field, in particular by seeking to restrict the conduct of scientific tests to the minimum necessary.
in writing. in labour market matters, it is regrettable to note the glaring inequalities between men and women in various aspects such as pay, access to employment, vocational training, working conditions and career development. i voted in favour of this report because it clearly points in the direction of applying the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in areas related to employment and occupation. i also supported this report, which arises out of the need for more initiatives to improve the balance between private and professional life. by bringing together the various initiatives on equal treatment in a single document, the existing legal framework is not only simplified, but the level of protection is also modernised by integrating the evolution of the case law of the court of justice. i cannot but regret that, despite being enshrined in the eu treaty and in various directives, equal treatment is a dream that has yet to be realised, since it is only a vague political principle with a very poor implementation.
in writing. it is never too late to stress, especially today, when we commemorate world children's day, the responsibility of the law, the states and the union to make the defence of the rights of children, who are our future and make up about one fifth of the union's population, one of their priorities. i support the creation of this framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the eu of prohibitions resulting from convictions for sexual offences against children, as well as the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. it is a fundamental step towards improving cooperation between member states in the protection of children. in addition, it has a dual purpose:- to improve access to information on prohibitions (with their mandatory entry in the criminal record); and- to make their enforcement mandatory. this prevents an individual who has been convicted of paedophilia in one member state from being prohibited from engaging in activities involving contact with children from circumventing that prohibition by taking up residence in another member state. such an injunction in one member state should produce legal effects in the other member states, thus extending the application of the principle of mutual recognition to injunctions and prohibitions.
in writing. while it is true that the latest developments in israel show positive signs, in particular the results achieved by a party with a clear desire for dialogue and the search for agreement, the same cannot be said of the palestinian authority's electoral results. the victory there, although legitimate from the point of view of electoral legality, is doubly worrying. first of all, because it has allowed a political group to come to power which, by not recognising israel's right to exist, does not accept the minimum indispensable to a peace process. it also shows that the people under the jurisdiction of the palestinian authority did not give priority to a negotiated solution to this longstanding conflict in that election. in this context, it is essential that the european union, and the quartet as a whole, agree on the next steps. firmness towards the pa government, but openness and availability towards president mahmoud abbas and his initiatives to seek a general agreement on the only acceptable solution: the peaceful coexistence of two states. given the importance of the european union's donor role, it is hoped and expected that on this external front 'europe' will show the capacity to influence the situation positively.
in writing. we have no doubt that a tough and ruthless fight against terrorism is needed. however, it cannot and must not under any circumstances call into question or even betray the values and principles on which our civilization is founded. i am in solidarity with the concerns expressed about the situation at guantanamo and i support the call here for an end to such situations and for the immediate closure of these detention centres. the capture and continued detention, in the circumstances in which the prisoners are held, is contrary to the geneva conventions and other international humanitarian instruments. whatever measures are taken in relation to these prisoners, they must be taken in full respect of human rights and the rule of law. every prisoner shall be formally charged with the crimes with which he is charged and shall have a fair trial before a competent, impartial and independent tribunal. if convicted, he should, of course, be subject to a sentence that reflects the gravity and inhumanity of the terrible acts he has committed. i hope that at the next transatlantic summit in vienna you will take the opportunity to press the united states to close guantanamo and to find the fairest and quickest solution to the situation of its approximately 500 prisoners.
in writing. i reaffirm what i said in october 2004 on this matter. we are totally outraged by terrorism and remember with full solidarity the terrible suffering of its victims and their families. we have no hesitation in saying that this is the greatest struggle of democracies today, faced with this terrible barbaric attack on fundamental rights - as the tragedies of 11 september and the 11 march are a terrible and unforgivable example. but at the same time we say, and we say this without any hesitation, that the west must maintain the highest moral standing in this fight, by giving unconditional demonstrations of the values it defends. we therefore want to see clarification of cases where allegations are made of violations of human rights, fundamental guarantees and universal conventions. and we advocate that the values of civilization that we affirm and believe in be respected. i therefore supported the postponement of the vote in order to allow us to take a more mature and informed decision in two weeks' time in strasbourg.
in writing. the united states of america is europe's greatest and best ally. any discussion of relations between the two sides of the atlantic must start from this premise, to which two key ideas must be added: the fact that we are potentially competitors in many areas does not make us less of an ally, the fact that we are the best ally does not confuse us. we are distinct actors, with projects, purposes and interests that do not always coincide, but we are partners in the same project of society, in the same concept of human community. the last few years have revealed difficulties which, in most cases, are solvable. the idea that the united states has created an internal division in europe is false. the truth is that the eu is not itself a single entity with a singular view of the realities of foreign policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. there is a wider reality underlying transatlantic economic relations to which we must be attentive when we approach this issue. the european union and the united states of america play a unique role in world trade. for this reason, there are three aspects which i consider to be fundamental in a debate on this subject. first of all, loyalty. trade relations between the two must be based on good faith and effective implementation of the agreements, as well as effective protection of the rights of american and european economic operators (including both producers and consumers). secondly, cooperation in the international context. although the factors of disagreement and competition are obvious and obvious, it should be possible to reach an understanding useful for the promotion of a fairer, more transparent, more development-friendly world trade on a global scale. finally, it shares the concerns and solutions of the two sides on the main challenges facing them on a global scale. whether it is directly in the economic area (think, for example, of the energy question, the growth of economic powers such as china or india, world poverty), or in the field of security, among others.
in writing. no one doubts that any member state wishing to join the eurozone must meet the maastricht convergence criteria laid down in the ec treaty. the european parliament has always in the past been in favour of these criteria being met strictly and without exception. although the econ committee in its report chose not to focus on recommendations on the degree of preparedness of individual countries, the truth is that this vote was mainly about the negative recommendation on lithuania which, although meeting all the convergence criteria, showed a slight divergence in the inflation criterion. in fact, in the last 12 months this country has exceeded, if only very slightly, the limit value. this has led me to consider amendment no 2 reasonable and to vote in favour of it, which calls for a clear and comprehensive explanation of the calculations made to assess the criteria relating to inflation and for the commission to update its report on this country with a view to its rapid accession to the euro area.
in writing. while trade is an important instrument for development and poverty reduction, there is no doubt that real progress towards these objectives cannot be achieved without fair rules at the international level. however, finding solutions to guide the contribution of trade policy to solving the poverty problem does not seem to be an easy task. the opening of frontiers to international trade thus brings enormous benefits for the development of societies. however, we have seen that poor countries are not always prepared to protect themselves against adverse effects or to take advantage of the opportunities offered. i therefore believe that small adjustments to the wto trade negotiations on the environment, agriculture, raw materials, public services and health, as well as industrialisation, could provide greater benefit to these populations from the benefits of trade. finally, our role must continue to be to promote development and democracy support in developing countries as a way of anchoring their populations to their countries by providing them with decent and fair conditions for work and growth.
in writing. the green paper on energy efficiency forms the basis for the european commission's energy efficiency action plan, which is of great importance as it is a key document for issues such as combating climate change, environmental pollution, the misuse of natural resources and the security of energy supply. the rapporteur points to strategic and very important points in order to achieve the 20% reduction in energy consumption in the european union by 2020 proposed by the european commission. raising awareness, educating and motivating people to change their behaviour and consumption habits, encouraging the use of cogeneration technologies, the exemplary role of the public sector in using cleaner transport and efficient lighting and the use of energy-saving contracts are simple measures that can translate into large energy savings. the rapporteur also paid particular attention to the instability of the energy market and the recent oil price rises, which make the current framework different from that which existed when the commission drafted the green paper. i therefore agree with the report by mr alejo vidal-quadras.
in writing. i voted in favour of the véronique de keyser report because it makes a good diagnosis of the situation, in the triple sense: women victims, women instruments of peace and women instruments of war. the report also complains that, despite all the resolutions and recommendations of various european and international institutions, women do not participate in conflict prevention and resolution, nor in peacekeeping operations, etc. the recommendation to draw up a practical action programme to identify the constraints is therefore justified.
in writing. i have had the opportunity to address the issues of post-conflict rehabilitation as rapporteur on this subject in the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. the introduction of the gender dimension in conflict prevention and resolution was considered urgent, as was the participation of women in the political decision-making process and their association with the framework for defining conflict resolution strategies. i reiterate the need to give particularly strong support to women fighters and refugees who are victims of physical violence, rape and sexual abuse. these shocking cases cannot but challenge us and call for our most resolute action and solidarity. i regret that the rapporteur insists on exploiting the suffering of women in conflict situations in order to impose and export her conception of 'sexual and reproductive health', including the promotion of abortion, which is not even supported by all member states. as i have said before, i will not vote for any text which does not clarify this concept and extend its scope beyond the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, including hiv/aids, and ensuring women have the necessary conditions for pregnancy, childbirth and the postpartum period.
following the denunciation of illegalities against portuguese workers in several member states of the european union, i participated, together with other members of this european parliament, on 4 june in arendonk, belgium, in a border area with the netherlands, in a meeting with portuguese workers in those two countries. there they reported various problems and discrimination, notably by temporary and seasonal employment agencies, with particular reference to flower greenhouses in the netherlands and to agriculture, including the picking of strawberries in belgium. i would ask you, mr president, to insist once again on the commission and the governments of those two member states to ensure that the necessary monitoring and intervention is carried out to ensure equal rights, compliance with the legislation, in particular the directives on information and registration of workers, and to combat any form of discrimination such as that which continues to be observed against portuguese workers in several member states of the european union.
as we have been denouncing, the promotion of prostitution, which has become more visible with the construction of a mega-brothel next to the german facilities for the world cup, is a real violation of human rights. several women's organizations and tens of thousands of people have signed a petition declaring that buying sex is not a sport but a form of sexual and physical exploitation of women, in which their bodies are considered a commodity that can be bought and sold. we know that, moreover, this kind of behaviour violates the international rules of sport, which are supposed to promote equality, mutual respect and non-discrimination. it is essential that sexual exploitation and trafficking in women be condemned and that every measure be taken to prevent the promotion of prostitution and the trafficking generally associated with it, which is, as has already been said, a real form of slavery. it is not possible, however, to conclude from what we have heard here that all the necessary measures have been taken in a situation like this, taking advantage of the visibility of this event to combat the causes that remain beyond this football championship. we therefore insist that, while combating trafficking in women and the criminal networks that traffic them, it is essential to promote equal rights and the dignity of women, including the creation of jobs with rights, and the guarantee of access to quality public services, particularly in the areas of health, education, housing and justice, in order to reduce poverty and social exclusion and thus prevent the main causes of prostitution for women, whether they are citizens of member states of the european union or of third countries where poverty is high. but it also means that we must pay more attention to promoting the dignity of women in the media, in advertising, in the family and in combating all forms of discrimination and violence against women. we therefore propose, commissioner, that you give priority to all these issues in the defence of women's rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. annex - position of the commission
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing an infrastructure for spatial information in the european community (inspire) (12064/2/2005 - c6-0054/2006 - 2004/0175 (cod)) (rapporteur: frieda brepoels) (a6-0081/2006) is hereby adopted.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report and i would like to congratulate the commission on the presentation of this directive. together with my colleague seeber and other colleagues, i visited some of the countries most affected by the floods and we were able to observe the damage caused by the 2005 floods on the ground. during our visit to germany and austria, we listened to the concerns of the people, collected suggestions from the regional authorities and observed examples of good practice in flood risk prevention and management. this contact with reality was a very useful experience for the preparation of our reports. natural disasters tend to occur more frequently and with greater frequency. these are no longer events that happen once in a century, but every four years, every two years, and their consequences are increasingly dramatic. in central europe, for example, in bavaria, there were major floods in 1999, 2002 and 2005. this year, not only in germany but also in other countries such as the czech republic, slovakia, hungary and austria, thousands of people have had to leave their homes and several factories have had to shut down. the governments of some member states have even declared a state of emergency in several regions and there are already casualties. cyclically, natural disasters leave a trail of destruction and death. flooded cities, destroyed houses, millions upon millions of euros of damage and serious social and environmental problems are some of the visible consequences of floods. according to the world health organization, natural disasters kill hundreds of people every year. commissioner dimas said we should be ambitious. so let's be ambitious in disaster prevention and creative in finding answers to questions like: what can we do to prevent a natural phenomenon from turning into a disaster? what can be done to prevent so many human casualties, ecological disasters, and social and economic problems resulting from natural disasters? the un secretary-general, kofi annan, said that we must move from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention and there is evidence that prevention works. comparing the 2002 and 2005 floods in bavaria, we find that in 2002 there were hundreds of victims and high losses and that in 2005, despite the intensity being five times higher, the damage was 30% lower.
author: mr verheugen, the presentation last march of the commission communication entitled 'a renewed european tourism policy towards a strengthened partnership for tourism in europe' could and should be an opportunity to discuss the next steps to be taken by the community institutions with the aim of boosting the tourism industry in europe. unfortunately, that is not the case. the world today is not the world we were in 15 or 20 years ago, when the economy was growing fast and vigorously, distributing wealth among the citizens of europe. in today's world, the global economy presents new challenges, but also new attractions. there is a different reality that requires different answers. our development model is outdated and will be ineffective if we don't fix it. europe therefore needs to meet development challenges where it can be competitive and sustainable, where it has comparative advantages with economic potential. that is the case with tourism. we certainly cannot compete with exotic destinations, but we have a history, a heritage and an attractive potential that is unmatched and of enormous diversity. we all know that the european tourism industry is one of the sectors best placed to respond to the challenges of the global economy. difficult to move and easily adaptable, it is able to meet quality and environmental protection requirements, it is able to meet the needs of further training, it can combat seasonality if it is able to adapt to new audiences and it has growth potential. it would therefore be expected that the commission, in presenting a new communication on the subject, would bring something new and respond to the challenges set out by this parliament in the resolution on the future of sustainable tourism in europe, which was adopted in september last year. on the contrary, the commission has produced a document which is not very innovative and in which it very rarely takes advantage of the initiatives which this parliament has put forward. that's not enough, commissioner! the commission does not respond or responds poorly to proposals for concrete measures to promote sustainable development and the economic exploitation of the tourism industry. if not, let us see: why has the commission not followed up our proposals to combat seasonality, in particular by strengthening the mechanisms for developing senior tourism in the off-season? is it because you don't agree? is it because you think it's useless? or do they not discover in programmes such as the spanish inserso the virtues which all economic operators find in it? another example: european capitals of culture are a successful model in promoting the cultural heritage of host cities and creating a greater identity among european citizens. the commission is saying, and i quote, 'that it will take the opportunity to raise awareness of these good practices, possibly by means of a prize for european destinations of excellence'. "will you explore opportunities to raise awareness? " we must recognize that there is very little initiative and dynamism. the same applies to parliament's request to be associated with the development of agenda 21 in the context of sustainable european tourism or the need to create mechanisms for the protection of european tourists in situations of crisis or disaster abroad. the commission has again responded with silence. in a market economy, public institutions are not expected to plan the economy, organise investment or manage economic structures themselves. in the european union it is not the commission's job to do what governments and private individuals do best. tourism is one of the areas of subsidiarity par excellence. however, we should expect more vision, more political will and decision-making capacity and above all to give clear signals to private economic actors and to the member states themselves. that is what we expected from the commission's communication on tourism. commissioner, i have to tell you once again that we are disappointed. the commission communication is not ambitious. it is rather an analytical document, with positive points, it is true, but without much creativity, without risk or vision and it is a document that does not even articulate with the green paper on a maritime policy for the union, which has been published, in which the tourist potential of the sea and the coastal countries is abundantly valued. let me rephrase, commissioner, the question on which we justified this debate. in a more simple way i ask what are the new ideas, the significant proposals and the useful suggestions that the commission has for the tourism industry, or to put it another way: how does the commission intend to contribute to the development of european tourism? finally, commissioner, the questions i have put are in fact different ways of expressing a single concern, namely the need to exploit fully the enormous economic potential of this sector for growth and employment in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, greater involvement of the european institutions is essential to strengthening the sustainable development of tourism. i therefore share the concerns which justified mr queiroz's question. first of all, because i come from a country, portugal, and more specifically from an ultraperipheral region, madeira, where tourism is one of the most important instruments for its economic and social development. secondly, although tourism is an area of competence of the member states, the union has an important role to play in this area through policy guidelines and actions at european level. the union's action to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states - as provided for in the treaty, which has not yet been ratified - represents an important added value for national policies and actions for the sustainable development of the tourism sector. in support of action at european level, i would like to mention two facts: the high economic and social importance of tourism, together with the importance of new information and communication technologies and the innovation it promotes, will make this sector one of the most important contributors to competitiveness and job creation in line with the lisbon strategy. secondly, the union is the world's leading tourist destination and union citizens are the best users of tourist services and the most sought-after tourist destinations in the union. finally, given the nature of the union's and the member states' powers in the field of tourism, to take account of the need for greater integration and cohesion between the actions of the union and those of the states and regions, i would advocate close cooperation, coordination and information not only between the union and the member states and regions, but also between the institutions themselves, parliament, the commission and the council. this is why this moral issue is so important in order to inspire the necessary commitment on the part of the commission and the council to follow up the relevant initiatives proposed by parliament for sustainable development, in particular by creating the europe destination, the european union brand, the guarantee of safety and the safeguarding of tourists' rights.
mr president, i would like to stress just a few points. firstly, the importance of research for the success of the lisbon strategy. secondly, that there is a need to develop and deepen research on climate change and its relationship with natural disasters. research is also needed to solve the energy problem. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore welcome the consensus proposal put forward by some members, in particular mrs gutiérrez and mr busquin, and i call on members to support this proposal.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, which supports the conclusion of the protocol on mountain farming. the protocol was initialled by the community at the ministerial conference of the alpine convention held in chambéry on 20 december 1994. subordinated to the overall objective of sustainable development, the protocol on mountain agriculture aims, as stated in article 1, to ensure and promote appropriate and environmentally compatible agriculture in the alpine region as an essential contribution to the maintenance of populated areas and sustainable economic activities. this includes high quality typical products, the safeguarding of the natural environment, protection against natural hazards and the preservation of the beauty and value of the landscape. the contracting parties shall optimise the multifunctional role of mountain farming. support for disadvantaged areas such as the alpine region, characterised by its wealth of natural resources, including water, agricultural potential, historical and cultural heritage, quality of life and economic and recreational activities, is essential not only for local populations but also for other populations. however, it is also characterised by difficult living and agricultural production conditions due to geomorphological and climatic conditions.
in writing. we are now facing a second reading of the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution. this is to safeguard a natural resource essential to life, since its reserves are the main source of drinking water supply. the main problems at this stage are, on the one hand, reconciling the extension of the scope of the directive with the principle of subsidiarity and, on the other hand, the implications of some measures for agricultural practices and the need to introduce some amendments, which should imply, as the rapporteur argues, the provision of community aid within the framework of the cap. the rapporteur also stresses that agreement must be reached on the methods of measuring groundwater pollution, arguing that this should be done on the basis of comparable thresholds. the council, in its common position, refers to the exclusive responsibility of the member states to establish quality standards for groundwater. this is why we insist on proposals which allow some comparison and studies of the impact and effectiveness of this regulatory framework so that a new assessment can be made some time after its application.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of groundwater was put to the vote at first reading to follow up article 17 of the water framework directive (2000/60/ec) which provides for the adoption by the council and parliament of measures promoting the protection and improvement of groundwater quality. the council's common position after the first reading has certain technical gaps, lack of clarity and ambition which are made up by the amendments introduced by the rapporteur, who is also trying to achieve the best possible framework with the framework directive. the reintroduction of the 'emissions principle' (as set out in the groundwater directive 80/68/ec) to achieve the objective of article 4 of the framework directive, 'protecting groundwater from pollution and deterioration', the highest restriction applied to substances listed in annex viii of the framework directive, in order to avoid long-term contamination and therefore also the need for recovery measures, are important changes introduced. amendment no 36 also, which eliminates the exemption of agricultural soils from the limits for compliance with the values laid down for nitrates, is of particular importance, since it ensures consistency between the protection and quality objectives to be achieved.
in writing. it is good that there is an assessment and management of flood risks. although it is a natural phenomenon, human intervention can increase the risks or lessen their effects. the sharp reduction in the natural capacity of watersheds to retain floods, the mismanagement of human activities (such as the increase in human settlements and economic assets in floodplains and the erosion and reduction of natural water retention by land through deforestation in watersheds) and other phenomena, in particular drought, contribute to the increase and likelihood of the adverse effects of floods. to date, there is no legal instrument at european level to protect against flood risk. in order to protect the principle of solidarity and without prejudice to the principle of subsidiarity, the management of flood risks and mitigation measures should therefore not be limited to the support provided for in the european union solidarity fund. it is particularly important in cases of river basin management that cross two or more countries, which implies the coordination and implementation of other relevant policies of the member states and the community, in particular as regards water transport policy, agricultural policy and cohesion policy. although not all the proposals have our support, the report is overall positive.
in writing. the european parliament, following previous softening of its position on the unacceptable us detention at guantanamo, adopted a resolution four years later, in which it 'reiterates its call on the us administration to close the detention centre'. the ep also condemns torture, including what are euphemistically called 'special interrogation techniques', such as sexual humiliation, asphyxiation by immersion in water, the application of electric shocks, and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. this is in line with the demand of all those who have always denounced this unacceptable, brutal and inhuman situation. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. the ep also fails to point out that the detention at guantanamo is not an isolated situation, but rather part of a us-led offensive against international law, conventions and the un charter, an offensive which must be denounced and with which we cannot agree.
in writing. the issue of prisoners in the 'war on terror' is the place where we must respond to the greatest challenge that terrorism poses to us: fully guarantee the security of our citizens without losing our values. in this struggle, in which we must be associated, the paradigms we have known are not proving to be sufficient. the geneva convention combatants (properly uniformed and identified) do not exist in this war. on the other hand, to treat soldiers of a war as common criminals would be a legal error and a folly in terms of security. i therefore believe that first of all it is urgent to find a new legal framework for the situation underlying the detentions at guantánamo. that said, and recognizing the exceptional nature of this moment, it is nevertheless desirable and defensible that the fundamental principles of international law be adopted and adapted. but we must defend it without the hypocrisy of those who delegate the hard work to others. guantánamo is an evil, and an evil we wish to see ended. but, while recognizing that the international legal system lacks an adequate response to the new reality of the terrorist threat, i believe that it is up to the states to seek a new solution that is humane, just and safe. in short, we must review the law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the following are statements by the council and the commission on the human rights situation in tunisia.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the following are statements by the council and the commission on the 17th eu-russia summit (26 may 2006).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. this ambitious europe is still in the prehistory of its criminal law. vague consensus and timid progress show how states resist the future, show the unbearable contradiction of a political community which asserts itself on common fundamental values, but which leaves to the taste of each state precisely the right which guarantees these values. the irony is that the constitutional treaty tried to erase it and that the court intuited the best of interpretations. as long as the european political institutions say that european criminal law is based on the simple principle of mutual recognition, europe will not have a criminal project, it will not have an area of freedom, security and justice in the true sense of the word, because europe is a global project of justice, it is not a project of preferential areas of justice. but what europe is showing is the absence of a common space, with a common project in the criminal field, a patchwork of borders, inconsistent harmonization of minimum sentences without following a political or criminal programme, harmonization of the minimum limit of maximum penalties, showing our lack of audacity. apparent harmonisation only by the sanction, without covering the elements of the crime, alternative penalties, forms of execution. a europe which proclaims the dignity of all and the values which guarantee it, the rule of law, proportionality and equality, calls for a criminal justice programme, but what it shows is a criminal law which is absurdly separate from the values it guarantees in the framework of the powers of the pillars, a criminal law which is affirmed almost only as a security within the walls of the council, without an effective democratic sharing of the parliaments. what it shows is the mutual recognition of particular penal systems without an essential basis of harmonization, a true chancel of iniquity. that is what we do not want and what europe is showing, because this area of criminal law is the area par excellence of values. we are waiting for the treaty to open up the field and, even before that, for a strong political will which is slow to arrive.
mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has long been calling for a new legal framework for data protection under the third pillar, comparable to the rules in force in community law. we want to ensure the same level of protection, while taking into account the specific nature of police and judicial work. we must recognize that there is insufficient protection at the moment. the recent adoption of the proposal for a directive on data retention was already accompanied by a clear call for the appropriate safeguards to be adopted rapidly under this framework decision. as rapporteur for the three legislative measures on the establishment of the schengen ii information system, i have sought to make the necessary changes to take account of the adoption of this framework decision and i have sent a letter to vice-president frattini asking the commission to update the data protection rules in the sis ii decision with a view to ensuring consistency, as it is of the utmost importance that the new rules apply to sis ii as they do to the vis. the resolution created by the court of justice's judgment of 30 may, which annulled the decisions on the transfer of pnr data to the united states of america, will pass through third pillar solutions, as commissioner frattini said last monday. all this reinforces the idea that it is urgent and fundamental to adopt a legal instrument to ensure the protection of personal data outside the first pillar. for all these reasons, the adoption of this framework decision is of the utmost urgency and importance. i congratulate mrs roure on her work and support the amendments she has tabled which were adopted in the libe committee. these proposals make clear what principles and safeguards we want to see ensured. i also support the rapporteur's request that we postpone the vote on the final resolution until the next plenary session.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we want to improve the standards of quality and efficiency of justice. we know that this is a very sensitive area and one characterized by enormous diversity between the member states. this is why mutual trust needs to be strengthened so as to allow for the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. confidence in the quality and efficiency of the judicial system of the other partners of the union contributes to the progressive development of a european judicial culture. this framework decision is a further step in this direction and forms part of the reinforcement of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences or measures. simplifying the transfer of sentenced persons to another member state of which they are nationals or with which they have close links can optimise the possibilities for rehabilitation and social reintegration. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr varvitsiotis, on his report and on the excellent proposals he has put forward, which i fully support and which have been unanimously supported by the libe committee. the appropriate guarantees must be given to the sentenced person, by ensuring that he is heard before the execution order is issued, as mrs cederschiöld has stressed. the principle of specialisation should also be safeguarded in order to ensure that he is not heard or judged in relation to acts other than those for which he has been convicted. it is also important that victims of convicted persons can be informed both of the existence of a request for recognition and transfer of the execution of the sentence and of the outcome of the proceedings and the transfer order. i also agree that in no case can the possibility of converting the penalty into a financial penalty or of aggravating the penalty imposed by the issuing state be accepted.
mr president, there is a growing problem of the use of stimulant drugs, particularly cocaine, and more and more young people are experimenting with drugs in europe, which clearly shows that there is still a lot to be done in the fight against drugs. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has played an important role in compiling and disseminating information on drugs and drug use and has promoted the exchange of best practices and organisations in the member states. as mr pirker has already pointed out, it is important, however, that there are common criteria and standardised methods of data collection, because only then can these data be comparable, reliable and objective. the existing problem of data from some member states being poorly available or difficult to compare, which makes it very difficult to analyse the situation in the union, must be tackled quickly. i would like to congratulate my colleague frieda brepoels on this report and on the excellent result achieved by our adoption today of this proposal for a revision of the regulation after three years of negotiations, which is primarily concerned with changing the legal basis originally envisaged, placing the european parliament in a position of co-legislator. i would like to stress as a very positive development the strengthening of the role of the centre in order to take account of new trends in drug use, such as the use of a number of substances, which combine legal and illegal psychoactive substances, and the fact that the centre has adapted to the new post-enlargement reality, with the corresponding adaptation of the functioning of its bodies. finally, i would like to draw attention to the global nature of the problem of drug use, which means that we need to place the analysis in the european context in a broader context. it is also important to intensify cooperation with non-community countries, especially since most drugs entering the european union come from non-community countries.
the statements by the commission and the council prove that the next european council will continue to leave out the measures needed to change what president barroso has called european "christophilia", revealing that they do not want to understand the causes of the criticisms of the citizens of the various member states. the main reason for the discontent is the social crisis, which the council's proposal for conclusions only deals with marginally, referring to a report to be submitted by march 2007. it is in the interests of the community to make progress on liberalization, the directive on the establishment of the internal market in services and the common energy policy. the priority of the priorities, which is still omitted in the conclusions, but which was the main and practically exclusive subject of the president of the commission's speech, is the constitutional question. he stressed what the commission considers to be lost by not having advanced the process, forgetting that it was the functioning of democracy that led to the rejection of the european constitution by the people of france and the netherlands, which should be respected by the community institutions. by announcing new forms of propaganda, including the proposal for a declaration on political europe to be submitted next year for signature by all the community institutions, it is only pursuing a course which does not address the existing problems.
in writing. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda), set up in 1993 and based in lisbon, has the task of collecting, analysing and disseminating objective, reliable and comparable information, thus providing a true picture of the phenomenon at european level. knowledge of the scale and nature of the drug problem is an indispensable condition for effective policy and action to combat it. although much progress has been made, much remains to be done to improve monitoring instruments and develop a genuine 'common language'. i voted in favour of this report on the new proposal on the emcdda put forward by the european commission. the main changes include the involvement of the european parliament in the co-decision process, the extension of the emcdda's role and the adaptation of the functioning of the emcdda bodies to take account of enlargement. the emcdda should obtain more objective and comparable data and engage in systematic evaluation of drug policies and drug use trends. the importance of better dissemination and the exchange of information on best practices in tackling the drug problem should also be stressed.
in writing. as the rapporteur, who is a well-known cypriot doctor in our group, points out, there is a lot of confusion in people's minds about avian influenza and the flu pandemic. many authorities and many people, he says, 'seem to equate the arrival of a/h5n1 in europe with the emergence of a flu pandemic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. it stresses, as i did in a previous report, the need for the european union to provide technical, scientific and economic assistance to the countries already affected and, in particular, to contribute to raising global awareness and to a coordinated master plan at international, regional, subregional and national level, with an appropriate roadmap and timetables. the rapporteur is therefore trying to improve the european commission's proposal and clarify a number of aspects, which is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i'd like to start by reminding you that the confusion in people's minds about avian influenza and pandemic influenza is massive. there is therefore clearly a lot to be done in the field of communication. as policy makers we cannot neglect our duty to protect citizens by helping to ensure that the necessary means are in place to give a decisive response to any public health threat posed to our societies. as is well known, the threat of a flu pandemic is a european public health issue of concern to everyone. however, there are many questions as to the accuracy of this possibility. since the risk to human health is considered to be very low by the competent authorities, it seems to me essential to establish an optimized mechanism for prevention and rapid response in cases of public health crises, which, as called for in this report, includes an optimized plan for coordinating actions at all decision-making levels and includes accurate and accessible communication to all citizens so that they are prepared in the event of a need. in this context, i voted in favour of mr amadou's report.
in writing. this agreement recognised that the european commission, supported by parliament, was right to challenge the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law, recognising that the protection of the environment in the eu requires concerted action by criminalising the most serious offences. its purpose and substance therefore fall within the community's powers in environmental matters (ec treaty) and not within the provisions of the teu on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. recognising that the community does not have jurisdiction in criminal matters in general, it sets a useful precedent for the communityisation of matters falling within the third pillar and strengthens parliamentary control over such a sensitive area as criminal law. the consequences will be enormous both for the adoption of future legal instruments and for those already in force, which will have to be based on a new legal basis, the first pillar, which implies the involvement of parliament as a co-legislator. a framework decision in the field of the environment has been annulled, but its consequences should be felt beyond this area, affecting the whole of community policies as well as fundamental freedoms, when it is necessary to resort to criminal law measures to ensure their effectiveness.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague tatjana zdanoka on her important report on a framework strategy for combating discrimination and equal opportunities for all, which i support, particularly as regards the request to the member states to take due account in their legislative practice of the various grounds of discrimination, in order to give the latter a credibility which has so far been weakened by its non-legally binding nature. the fight against discrimination must necessarily be based on education, the promotion of best practices and campaigns targeted at the general public and at areas and sectors where discrimination exists. awareness of the social effects of this phenomenon is probably the most effective way of combating discrimination.
in writing. the successive enlargements of the european union are a success story unparalleled in the history of our continent. now, this is due, in short, to two orders of factors. on the one hand, the willingness, availability and constant ability of the member states to bring new partners into this project at any time, with all the benefits and also the burdens that any enlargement entails. on the other hand, this process has been successful because of the positive effect of the prospect of accession. the history of europe over the last fifty years is largely the history of a continent which has been gradually adhering to the values of western democracies by virtue of the expectations of accession. for these reasons, we must draw two conclusions at this stage with regard to the prospects for accession for bulgaria and romania. on the one hand, the eu's will and desire to pursue this enlargement must be unequivocal and the final timetable must be set at the next european council. on the other hand, it must be clear that accession will only take place when the real conditions are met. our demand is justified and has been fruitful - as the progress made by romania over the past year shows.
in writing. we voted against this motion for a resolution because it insists on support for the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. the aim of continuing to commit ourselves to the treaty as a whole, in defiance of the position taken by the people of france and the netherlands in last year's referendums, is unacceptable. how can we continue to talk about the need to deepen democracy when the decisions freely taken by the people in democratic referendums are not respected? it is a hypocrisy which demonstrates the deep estrangement which exists today between the people and the elites of the community institutions. we also disagree with the propaganda campaign that is being announced, with the multiplication of parliamentary forums to meet the dates that they insist, in particular, as they refer to in the resolution, that there be a 'constitutional solution' when the elections to the european parliament are called in 2009. what was needed was more attention to social problems and a full response to the aspirations of the people for improved welfare, development and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. firstly, the debate on the future of europe is not limited to the constitutional debate, nor does the debate on the constitutional treaty exhaust the debate on the future of europe. as for the latter, i do not think it is the most glamorous and appealing to the citizens, although it is necessary - even if i doubt its urgency. and it must certainly be carried out in full view of the citizens. in my view, however, what is really needed is to update and consolidate the eu's structural and decision-making model in a democratic framework that respects national identity and diversity, since the eu as designed can hardly withstand a life of 25 and even less of 27, 28 or 29. i therefore believe that the solution may be to discuss it again at a time when the societies that are most hostile to this proposal are showing a new willingness, or it may be to delimit the 'constitutional' aspiration to a more modest and realistic institutional reform indispensable to the new life in the eu. but above all, we must respond to what really concerns the citizens, particularly in the economic sphere. lack of policy, lack of results, lack of growth and jobs in an economy that is hopelessly changing. the truth is that these challenges are, for our fellow citizens, priorities over the constitution.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, small arms and light weapons are weapons of mass destruction in the developing world. it is estimated that they kill half a million people each year. their long-term impact on sustainable development is undeniable. fighting them means finding creative ways to bridge the gap between security sector reform and development assistance. the latest reports by the un institute for disarmament research on european action on small arms and light weapons stresses that the eu should create more synergies between the relevant cfsp and community instruments. also, fighting the scourge of illegal brokering should be a priority. this parliament has repeatedly expressed its disappointment at the lack of specific legislation in many eu countries, despite the adoption of the 2003 common position. finally, the eu can play a decisive role in making sure that the review conference on the un programme of action on small arms and light weapons is successful, and a follow-up conference must therefore be organised. we are counting on the austrian presidency to steer that process. success would mean agreement on a global set of principles on arms transfers which, as a minimum, should ensure that all transfers are authorised through a permit or licence, that existing obligations and relevant international law are respected, that arms embargoes imposed by the un security council are respected and enforced, and that the issuing of permits or licences should take into account the risk of exported arms being used in serious violations of human rights or international humanitarian law, including the risk that such arms might be diverted into the wrong hands such as those of terrorists and that this may affect regional or internal security and stability. the un review conference should, of course, start work on a legally-binding international arms trade treaty as soon as its work is complete. i am very honoured to be a member of parliament’s delegation to that review conference.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the question period is now over (b6-0224/2006). the following questions were put to the council. part one
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 6 by fiona hall (h-0055/06) subject: sustainable production of biofuels does the council not consider that the production of biofuels should be sustainable, so as not to endanger biodiversity, to avoid the transformation of natural habitats into intensively cultivated areas and to ensure that the entire production cycle, including the transport of fuel, is at least carbon neutral both inside and outside the eu? what measures does the council intend to take to ensure the certification of sustainable biofuel production? question no 7 by agnes schierhuber (h-0494/06) subject: biomass and biofuels what progress does the austrian presidency hope to make with the commission's presentation of the biomass action plan and the european biofuels strategy? what opportunities does the austrian presidency foresee for european agriculture following the mandatory use of renewable raw materials, in particular the increased use of biomass and biofuels?
question no 8 by earn ryan has been withdrawn. question no 9 by othmar karas (h-0495/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: pollutant emissions from passenger cars the commission proposal for a euro 5 regulation on the pollutant emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is not very ambitious, particularly as regards the limit values for nitrogen oxides emitted by diesel cars. what action has the council taken in this area and what progress has been made during the austrian presidency?
i am naturally pleased with your answer, but in view of the responsibility which comes with protecting the environment, in view of the european parliament's resolutions on natural disasters in their regional, environmental and agricultural dimensions which detail the tragedy felt mainly in mediterranean europe and especially last year in spain and my country, portugal, resulting from the continuing destruction of vast areas of forest with very high costs in human sustainability, depopulation of rural areas, growth and employment of these areas, i ask, mr minister, whether there are any more
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, coastal fishing, in particular small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing, makes a considerable contribution to the socioeconomic well-being of coastal communities, not only in portugal but also in other coastal states. as we have said, coastal fishing contributes to local development, the maintenance and creation of jobs upstream and downstream, the supply of fresh fish and the maintenance of local cultural traditions. the economic and social crisis in the fisheries sector, which is being exacerbated by the increase in fuel prices, is affecting the least competitive segments of the fleet, in particular coastal fishing. in our view, this crisis is also linked to the guidelines and implementation of the common fisheries policy and its failure to specifically recognise the needs of coastal fisheries. this fleet segment therefore needs to be supported not only at national but also at community level. we consider this report to be generally positive and stress the need to recognise the specific features of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in the common fisheries policy and to adapt the present instruments to meet the needs of this sector, as well as the need to maintain in the future the european fisheries fund for aid to modernise and renew coastal and artisanal fishing. however, the report falls short of the immediate response to the problems of the current crisis and of the new instruments that must be created to bring about a real recognition of the specificity of this fleet segment. in this connection, we tabled two amendments, the first on the need to establish a community programme for small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, which would not only support specific projects but also help to concentrate instruments and channel funds to coastal fishing; the second, taking into account the need for emergency measures to respond to the serious socioeconomic situation in the sector, proposes the creation of a temporary emergency transitional compensation to combat the effects of the sharp increase in fuel prices. we hope that these proposals can be supported by the house.
first of all, i would like to join all those who have had the opportunity to congratulate our colleague mr ó neachtain on the excellent work he has done and on his continued commitment to this issue which is so dear to us. i would like to say that coastal fishing is a concept which must be defined in economic, social and environmental terms, also in terms of its techniques, but which must be seen geographically in the light of the reality to which it applies. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and our colleagues to the outermost regions such as the azores and madeira, where there are no continental shelves and where the equivalent of the coast is actually the coastal banks, which are sometimes located at great distances from the islands but which are, for all intents and purposes, exactly the same as the coast close to the land is for other continental regions. this is extremely important for us because without this adaptation we will not be able to understand the reality of these regions and i would therefore strongly urge the commission to take this into account.
i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and to join in the general comments made by our colleagues from various political groups, including my colleague bart staes, who very timely raised the problem of agriculture, which is a burning issue in community funds. but above all, i would like to say to the commission, face to face, that what my colleague ayala sender has told us here about the conviction of olaf by the court of first instance of the european communities in case 309/2003 cannot, under any circumstances, be without consequences. it is not just a question of ordering the commission to pay compensation to an official of the european commission. it is a matter of condemning a whole series of investigative procedures developed by olaf which have not respected any of the rules which are essential to respect in a state governed by the rule of law, have not respected the principles of immunity and impartiality, have not given the accused any chance of defence and, finally, have made an investigation, and this is the fundamental scandal, instead of being directed against its real authors, be directed against those who had absolutely nothing to point to in this process. this cannot go on like this and if it does, i must say very clearly that i do not understand where the commission's transparency policy is going. there must be consequences. there is no rule of law that can see a decision like this from the court without all the consequences being drawn.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jerzy buzek report on the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) because i believe that investment in research and technological development is key to the success of the lisbon strategy. investment in research on climate change and its relationship to natural disasters and on alternative energy sources to fossil fuels needs to be reinforced. i believe that research on embryonic stem cells from surplus embryos - a very promising area of research - which has been producing very encouraging results in the treatment of diseases such as parkinson's and alzheimer's, should be funded by this framework programme, after rigorous and case-by-case assessment by the ethics committees.
in writing. i consider this document to be one of the most important of this legislature, since it deals with the fundamental question of funding for research projects relating to technological development associated with different areas of intervention. in the fisheries chapter, i think the amendments tabled to ensure greater independence in the approach to the sector are entirely desirable and make perfect sense in the face of the crisis the sector is going through. only with more and better technology will it be possible to bring profitability and competitiveness back to the european fisheries sector. the creation of a specific chapter on fisheries and sustainable exploitation of the oceans in the seventh framework programme therefore deserves my unconditional support, as do all the other measures contained in the report.
in writing. in the european parliament's position on the seventh framework programme for 2007-13, we note a contradiction in some of the rhetoric surrounding it and its level of funding. while advocating a society geared towards 'knowledge, innovation and technology' at eu level, the eu budget allocation for these objectives has been reduced by some eur 21 million compared to the european commission's initial proposal. it should also be stressed that, in view of the priorities of this seventh framework programme, we see the attempt to regard research as just another 'product' to be marketed, and by the way, very profitable. in other words, we are faced in the seventh framework programme with the attempt to commercialise research at the expense of public research. despite the positive aspects of the proposal voted today, we believe that the priorities of such an important instrument should also include public research in the social and environmental fields, education and health. we therefore regret the rejection of some proposals that included, for example, safety at work and the prevention of occupational diseases, or the use of icts for sustainable development and social and economic inclusion. hence our vote.
in writing. the community framework programme for research and development is already of particular importance as it is one of the programmes with the largest financial allocation in the eu. divided into four specific programmes - cooperation, people, ideas and capacities - this framework programme acts as a driver for competitiveness and innovation in europe. of these specific programmes, i would highlight the 'cooperation' component, which also has the largest budget and aims to involve industry in research and development of new projects and to promote cooperation with research centres and universities. the importance of smes is also recognised, and their participation in this new framework programme is facilitated by the supporting role of technology platforms. finally, this programme reveals its importance in the context of regional development, since it provides for interconnection with the structural funds and recalls the need to take account of the regions of the convergence objective, which cover almost the whole of portuguese territory, in the allocation of financing, safeguarding the involvement of local and regional authorities in the decision on the allocation of funds for the construction of new infrastructure.
in writing. we insist that environmental policy can represent an important economic opportunity for direct and indirect job creation on a large scale, if innovation and industrial policies focus on promoting sustainable development. a macroeconomic framework is therefore needed to support the sustainable development of each country by strengthening employment, social cohesion and the environment. however, the current neoliberal policies are contrary to these objectives. the 'lisbon strategy' and the eu's monetary and fiscal policies have had negative consequences for economic growth and employment, as well as for the environment. we call attention to the fact that high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequality continue to exist in the eu, and we therefore believe that the fight against income inequalities and the promotion of real convergence should be among the priorities of the economic and social agenda.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the resolution against racism and homophobia, although i regard the substance of its content as very positive and consider it politically opportune. the objections - i abstained - are solely to the introduction of a reference to a portuguese 'case' which allegedly indicates the existence of a strong homophobic culture in portugal. the so-called gisberta case - which took place in porto - is only a juvenile delinquency act judged as such by portuguese society and handled correctly by the judicial authorities. there is therefore no reason why this case should be the subject of a resolution of this magnitude and importance.
in writing. we are in favour of technological solutions, including digital solutions, which help to improve train signalling and control systems, with a view to improving safety and eliminating congestion in rail transport. safety is all the more important when traffic speeds and capacity are substantially increased. but we already have doubts about claims that the proposed system, ertms, is superior to existing national systems. what it does is ensure greater cross-border interoperability, while never forgetting that this proposal is also part of the strategy for liberalising rail transport and the logic of an internal market. however, the central question is how the additional costs to railway undertakings will be financed. who will bear these costs and how will they be distributed among the member states in a context of constraints on the community budget? the same is true of the transeuropean networks and the european transport policy programmes, which have seen their funding cut in the next financial framework. we also have doubts about the conditionality of the use of the structural funds for transport to the implementation of this system alone. that is why we abstained.
in writing. coastal and artisanal fishing plays a key role in the local economy of several fishing communities. the lack of a regulatory framework applicable to the coastal sector has, however, affected this fishery segment and the whole industry associated with it. at a time when fleets need to be modernised and the workforce linked to the sector rejuvenated, solutions are urgently needed to reverse the aforementioned trend. i believe that the adoption of this report is a step forward in defending the interests of community fisheries and portuguese fisheries, and of the azores in particular. for all these reasons, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. we regret that the proposals we put forward were rejected - despite the support of some 200 members - namely the creation of:- a community programme for small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing;- a temporary emergency transitional compensation to combat the effects of the increase in fuel prices. however, other proposals were approved and included in the original report and have now been confirmed. the following are highlighted:- recognition of the specific nature of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in the common fisheries policy and adaptation of its instruments to the needs of this sector;- financing from the eff the renewal of vessels in this defunct segment;- creation of education and training programmes aimed at the entry of young fishermen in this sector;- financing of projects and actions of sector organisations and local authorities;- ensuring the participation of fishermen in the commercial process, revising the common customs tariff (cmo) for fishery products, ensuring fairer prices at first sale and a better distribution of value added;- ensuring the participation of fishermen and their representative organisations in the decision-making process of the common fisheries policy, in the protection of the marine environment and in the recovery of fisheries resources, applying the principle of co-management and decentralisation to the cfp.
author. east timor is an independent and sovereign state with four years of existence, whose people have fought against decades of indonesian occupation. a state that started from a country destroyed by occupation. it would be impossible to demand more from the democratic institutions of timor than has been done in recent years. recent events do not alter this reality. we believe that what is required at this complex and difficult time is to support a return to a situation of normality, particularly from the point of view of security, which is already taking place, to defend uncompromisingly the sovereignty of the people of east timor, while fully respecting their free choice in the choice of their legitimate representatives, as well as the legitimacy and democratic functioning of the timorese institutions. reject the dynamics of external interference, in particular by regional powers, australia and indonesia, which would only contribute to aggravating the situation. promote genuine solidarity and cooperation with east timor that contributes to its economic and social development and the well-being of its people. the content of the present resolution, although it contains some of the concerns described above, is characterized by its partiality in its reading of the political situation, a partiality which carries the danger of fuelling internal and external attempts to take political advantage of the situation which could lead to new situations of tension. the european parliament must now show appreciation for and support for the actions and efforts of all the timorese institutions, without exception and with strict impartiality, which is not the case with this resolution. the resolution also ignores the real dangers of external interference which, as is well known, have shaped the course of events. this position carries two dangers: it directs all responsibility for the situation to one of the timorese sovereignty bodies and fails to warn of the future dangers of stabilization that more or less direct intervention maneuvers can have in a country still marked by the indonesian occupation and the destabilization maneuvers that armed militias have been consecutively trying to carry out. finally, we do not think it appropriate to raise the question of the presence of blue helmets at this stage. the fact is that the military forces stationed in the territory should remain only until the situation is stabilized, subject to their national chains of command on the one hand and to the timorese political power on the other, in accordance with the terms of bilateral agreements with the constitutional framework of that country and the rules of international law. in conclusion, we believe that this resolution does not reflect the full complexity and evolution of the situation on the ground.
author. i recently witnessed in dili the beginning of the last period of violence among timorese, which included tragic clashes between police and military and segments of both forces. i also witnessed with regret a dramatic moment of institutional unity, when the president, the prime minister and the president of parliament were forced to ask for the help of foreign forces to restore order and political stability to the country. i would like to highlight the enthusiastic welcome given by the timorese people to the arrival of the gnr, a portuguese police force and therefore also a european one. the timorese authorities also showed unity and convergence on the requests they presented to the un security council two days ago, namely for the reinforcement and extension of unotil with a police mission under un supervision and possibly, if necessary, a peacekeeping mission under un mandate and leadership. this resolution of the european parliament supports these calls and shows the concern of this parliament and the european union for the situation, but also the confidence that, with the help of friends, east timor will be able to overcome this serious crisis. we european socialists remain convinced that the timorese people will overcome this crisis of democratic growth, as they have overcome other crises that are much more serious and even existential. but we also know that much depends on us as europeans and on the international community as a whole. in fact, the international community has a particular responsibility to ensure that the state of east timor has the future it deserves, the timorese people, who have fought so hard against oppression and for the independence and sovereignty of their country. as kofi annan said this week, what is happening in east timor is particularly painful because the country, and i quote, "is a child of the international community". the fragile foundations of timor's young democracy have been exposed in this crisis. kofi annan has stressed: "not only timorese but the entire international community should learn important lessons from this case". certain permanent members of the security council will have to put their hands on the conscience. nations with strong democratic institutions are not built in a few years and in a hurry. declaring mission accomplished early to save money ends up costing you dearly and the people pay the most. the situation is however amenable to correction and no one should call into question the viability of the independent and sovereign state of east timor, particularly with regard to the country's important natural resources. ian martin, head of unamed, who helped deliver the baby in 1999 and was recently the un secretary-general's envoy to dili, explained to the un security council that it was not a question of debating whether east timor was a failed state, but rather how a country with four years of existence is learning to cope with the weight of responsibilities that come with independence and the challenges that the democratic system imposes. this is where we, the european union, can make all the difference. and that is the direction in which the recommendations in this resolution to the commission and the council are aimed, namely to strengthen european assistance to the consolidation of democratic institutions, respect for human rights and reconciliation in east timor. in this connection, parliament welcomed the unanimous decision of the timorese authorities to call for an international commission of inquiry into the recent incidents which have resulted in a high number of fatalities and which have left thousands of timorese displaced from their homes. the european parliament will continue to follow developments closely and is planning to send an ad hoc mission as early as next autumn. we hope that the efforts of president xanana gusmão and minister ramos horta, nobel peace prize winner, will allow the political crisis to be resolved quickly so that the mission can concentrate on european aid for the development of east timor.
we have in fact an oral amendment which is consensual between the groups and which is intended to reflect the request made yesterday by the east timorese authorities in the united nations security council for a peacekeeping mission, mandated by the united nations if necessary. the amendment is intended to clarify the request made by the timorese authorities. the paragraph would then read as follows: stresses that the process of gradual reduction of the un mission in east timor over the last four years must be reversed and calls for the urgent deployment of a un-led police force to help restore stability, and the un-mandated peacekeeping force as requested by the east timorese authorities on 13 june 2006;
the workers of opel general motors in azambuja, portugal, whom i welcome to this house, are at this moment fighting for the preservation of their jobs and the future of this company, following the threat of transfer of production from this factory to another country, which, if it were to come to fruition, would lead to the destruction of thousands of jobs and would have serious social and economic repercussions. the european parliament has adopted a number of resolutions containing a set of recommendations on the relocation of companies, and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that parliament should be able to check with the european commission what initiatives it has taken to make community aid conditional on long-term agreements on employment and local development, as proposed by parliament, on the record of breaches of contract by companies which have relocated and which have benefited directly or indirectly from public incentives, on the refusal to grant or require the reimbursement of community funding to companies which have not fully complied with contracts concluded - as often as this has been applied - on the concrete measures which the commission has adopted to support workers and the economic recovery of regions affected by relocations, and on the drawing up of the code of conduct to prevent the relocation of companies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the report by mr andrzej jan szejna, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on recent developments and prospects in company law [2006/2051 (ini) ] (a6-0229/2006) follows.
the process which will lead to the adoption of the new regulation on the european social fund dignifies this parliament. at first reading we tabled 84 amendments to the commission's original proposal. i would like to emphasize one point in particular in these amendments: the original version of the european commission set out a set of measures which were eligible for funding, but whose actions varied according to the type of region receiving funding, whether they were regions under the convergence objective or regions for regional competitiveness and employment. i have opposed this regional differentiation from the outset on the grounds that it would lead to the creation of a two-speed european social fund, which would constitute a kind of indirect discrimination against workers who benefit from the fund according to the region in which they work. both the commission and the council have finally accepted my argument. other significant changes in which the council and the commission finally accepted our proposals concerned the use of european social fund funds to finance the activities of the social partners. i have always also opposed the commission's initial proposal and suggested as an alternative a more flexible but at the same time more rigorous solution, which would allocate an appropriate amount of european social fund resources to measures to strengthen the capacity of the social partners, but which would specify that these activities should relate to training, networking measures and the strengthening of social dialogue. both the council and the commission have finally accepted our view. if the normal procedure for a second reading of this new regulation were followed, we would run the serious risk of not having the necessary legal bases in time for member states to be able to use the funds allocated to the european social fund from 1 january 2007. the austrian presidency, recognizing the importance of this, contacted me to begin negotiations to shorten the usual time limits for the legislative procedure. with the excellent cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs i was able to examine the amendments which had not been considered by the council and to put forward five points which the council had not accepted at first reading but which we found to be very important. these were: strengthening the role of social inclusion, linking member states to support actions on the priority list, commitment by member states to promote action in the area of innovation, linking member states to transnational and interregional cooperation actions and the provision of an appropriate amount for training and networking of the social partners. i am very pleased to note that the council has also agreed to all our proposals. i therefore recommend, mr president, and in keeping with the commitment made to the austrian presidency, that the common position be adopted without amendment. mr president, the great changes under way, brought about by the simultaneous effects of globalisation, technological change and demography, are bringing about profound changes in many areas of the life of our societies. the most important political point of view in this process is to know how to decide on the direction of these changes, and in this respect i must confess that much of what has just been contained in this report is not only the fruit of hard work but also the result of a heated reflection on values which express, to a large extent, my view of politics as a public service. i am of the opinion that the free functioning of the market will never be able to promote the essence of the european project which i enthusiastically defend, based on the values of peace, social justice, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. i would therefore like you to know that the new regulation on the european social fund has also been inspired by this source. finally, i would like to thank the austrian presidency for its excellent cooperation throughout this process and commissioner špidla, who is present here. i should like to express my sincere thanks to the commission services for the openness they have shown in seeking solutions which were not originally envisaged and which were incorporated in the final version, and to my fellow shadow rapporteurs, karin jöns, schröder, figueiredo and the president-in-office, luigi cocilovo, i should like to express my public appreciation for the collaboration with which they have distinguished me on this dossier.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, since the start of the negotiations on the structural funds for the period 2007-13, we have been stressing that the existence of a coherent community regional policy, properly financed, is a prerequisite for promoting an effective reduction of regional disparities at european union level, as well as real convergence between the different countries. at the level of the community budget, regional policy should be a necessary and fair redistributive instrument which, at the very least, minimises the negative consequences of the internal market for the economically less developed countries and regions. we therefore take a critical view of this general regulation on the structural funds, which translates into legislative terms the interinstitutional agreement on the amounts, objectives and rules for implementing the structural funds for 2007-13. this represents a reduction in the structural funds from 0.41% of community gdp in 2000-2006 to 0.37% of community gdp in the period 2007-2013, when the increased needs for cohesion in the face of enlargement and the increase in economic and social disparities require the opposite trend. this is also the reason why, for example, the so-called statistical effect regions, such as the algarve in portugal, are not fully compensated, which we consider unacceptable. we also find it unfavourable that cohesion policy is subordinated to the objectives of the so-called lisbon strategy, in particular by including the objective of allocating at least 60% of the funds in convergence regions and 75% in the other regions to the financing of projects in the lisbon strategy, making cohesion subordinate to competition. finally, i would like to support the speech by mr jacky henin on certain crossborder regions, such as the hainaut region in france and belgium, which have differentiated access to the structural funds, a situation which also needs to be corrected in order to ensure their harmonious development.
in writing. human trafficking has been taking on disturbing proportions, with an estimated 700,000 people a year being trafficked worldwide. this is a transnational phenomenon requiring a joint response by the international community and coordinated action by the various actors. more effective cooperation in the fight against organised crime is urgently needed, through the harmonisation of definitions of offences in the different national legal systems, mutual legal assistance, joint investigations, etc. the international community has taken a major step forward with the adoption of the united nations convention against organised crime, signed by 121 states plus the european community, which is the first global and legally binding instrument to combat criminal networks in this field. i am glad that portugal is among them and i hope that the other seven member states which have not yet ratified will do so as soon as possible. i support the conclusion of this protocol, which complements the convention by providing for strict measures to combat illicit trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, in order to protect them against slavery, sexual exploitation and illegal work, as well as measures to provide legal, material and physical and psychological rehabilitation assistance to victims.
in writing. the report voted on today endorses the council's common position of 12 june 2006 on the european social fund for 2007-13. it is noted that there are some positive aspects to this position, but insufficient, and others with which we disagree. among the positive aspects we highlight social inclusion and gender equality, but it falls short of the desired, notably in terms of promoting quality of work, and a stronger contribution to reducing income disparities and social inequalities with the aim of real economic and social cohesion. on the other hand, it is a position which continues to narrow the scope of application to policies closely related to the guidelines and recommendations in the framework of the european employment strategy and the lisbon strategy, which, as is well known, have contributed to accentuating inequalities and promoting deregulation of the labour market. however, it is up to the member states to define their priorities and the areas to be financed, so there is some room for manoeuvre that countries can apply correctly. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the adoption today of the cohesion legislative package, in particular the proposal for a regulation on the general provisions of the funds, is of the utmost importance in order to enable the member states and regions of the european union to finalise the national reference frameworks and operational programmes and to start using the european funds as from 1 january 2007. as a result of fruitful negotiations with the council, the text of the proposal for a regulation takes up almost all the main points raised by the european parliament in its interim report adopted in 2005. it regretted that the amount initially proposed by the commission had not been committed and that it would have deserved the european parliament's firm support for specific funding for the outermost regions, designed to facilitate their integration into the internal market and to compensate for their specific constraints. however, in addition to the additional funding for the ors, a maximum co-financing rate of 85% of eligible expenditure was provided for. in particular, a special, more advantageous transitional scheme for the autonomous region of madeira has been reserved for the new objective 'regional competitiveness and employment'. i therefore vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the common position adopted today reflects the interinstitutional agreement which gives substance to the financial framework for 2007-13, where the structural funds are reduced by eur 28 billion compared to the commission's initial proposal and their weight is reduced from 0.41% of community gni to 0.37% compared to the previous financial framework, thus undermining effective economic and social cohesion, real convergence and the redistributive effect of the community budget. there is a major shift in the objectives of the structural funds, putting cohesion at the service of competitiveness and business interests, in line with the neoliberal lisbon agenda, by making public-private partnerships, the commercialisation of knowledge and research, and the adaptability and mobility of workers central objectives of the funds. the n+2 rule is maintained and there is no guarantee, at least on the council's part, that the cut and unused structural fund funds will continue to be used exclusively for this purpose. it should also be noted that the concessions made by the council in december 2005 in terms of the eligibility criteria for cohesion countries in exchange for the cuts in funding are now extended to the other member states. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. the council's common position on the new cohesion fund regulation maintains, as in the previous financial framework, the conditionality of the fund transfers to compliance with the stability pact and the maastricht nominal convergence criteria. in other words, a cohesion country with a lower level of economic development is doubly penalized: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. which would work as unacceptable blackmail. we also reject the extension of the n+2 (n+3) rule to the cohesion fund, given the specificities and objectives of the fund. it should be recalled that this rule, imposed by germany in the previous financial framework 2000-2006 on the other structural funds, implies the cutting of the unused appropriations within 2 years (3 years), clearly calling into question the purpose of the expenditure of the structural funds. this new conditionality may have an even greater impact on the cohesion fund, given the financing of large projects, which leads to greater difficulties in implementation and financing.
in writing. as regards the system of own resources for 2007-13, the council decided to maintain the uk cheque (except for enlargement expenditure) and to extend similar privileges to the remaining net contributors - germany, austria, the netherlands and sweden - through reductions in the rate of vat and direct gni contributions, as well as an increase in the rate of retention of traditional own resources, in addition to cheques under the structural funds and rural development. these reductions will be paid by the other member states, including those of cohesion, which are thus doubly penalised: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is an unfair and unacceptable situation, and in itself justifies our vote against it. however, there are those who insist on the creation of a new system of own resources based on european taxes, which we reject. we believe that a fair system of own resources must be based on the gni and relative prosperity of each member state, with the aim of making the effort in budgetary contribution similar for all citizens in the different eu member states. solidarity and redistribution would then be carried out on the expenditure side, taking into account the objective of real convergence and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. the current method of financing the community budget is outdated and has in recent years increasingly revealed its limitations. the last budgetary debates have become a humiliating exercise in which, almost line by line, it is argued who is or is not a net contributor. the current system with so many exceptions and derogations has become a complex and opaque system. in this context, the european union urgently needs to reform its financing system. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has succeeded in imposing, in the negotiations on the latest financial perspective (2007-2013), a mid-term review for 2008/2009, a unique opportunity to thoroughly reassess the own resources system. like the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, i am in favour of a system of financing the community budget which is transparent, fair and equitable, and which provides the eu with a financial framework which is in line with its current priorities and legitimate ambitions. any future reform should be guided by the strengthening of the eu's financial independence from current transfers from the member states, as well as by the strengthening of the european character of the budget, avoiding that future debates are again the scene of clashes over the national claims of some member states.
in writing. the five largest non-financial multinationals that have remained in the top 7 since 1990 had assets of about usd 1280 billion in 2003, or more than 3% of world gdp. the largest financial multinational, citibank, alone held the same number of assets, which shows the weight the financial sector has on the real economy. when we talk about consolidating the financial services sector, we are talking about consolidating the internal market in financial services and integrating the financial markets, with a view to removing the remaining barriers to the movement of capital and encouraging mergers and acquisitions, particularly in the banking sector, so that they can compete in the globalised market. we have spoken out against this option, which is expressed in the european parliament's resolution, of which the euro is an instrument and the objectives of which are set out in the action plan for financial services. the progressive financialization of the real economy has not only led to significant job losses but has also contributed to the parasitism of the real economy, in particular by diverting productive investment, and to the fomenting of financial (and subsequently economic) crises, due in particular to the high volatility of financial markets and the speculative bubbles it creates. this casino economy has not only boosted the profits of the big brokerage firms, but above all the banking industry. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. with the implementation of air transport as the most widely used means of travelling long distances, emissions from aviation are counteracting the overall objective of reducing emissions. the measures proposed in this report, in particular the charging of fees for emissions and the trading of emission allowances, seem to me to be an appropriate way of tackling the problem of aviation influence. it is also very important that all internal flights and all flights departing from or arriving in the eu should be included in this proposal so as not to create market imbalances, and that a single european airspace should be created, which would allow savings on air routes, since more direct flights would result in lower emissions. there is, however, a detail to be taken into account which is the unique context of the outermost and isolated regions. i therefore support this report, since the amendment was adopted which provides for special attention to the outermost regions and the outlying regions, which could be greatly affected if new aviation taxes were applied uniformly throughout the european area. these regions, because of their difficult and time-consuming access, are in great need of air transport.
the first thing to note is that this new era has contributed to the reduction of poverty worldwide. the level of economic growth that many countries around the world are experiencing in a sustained way is the only reason why it is worth continuing to defend the free movement of goods, commodities and people. but we do not sanctify the market. the values which guide our political action recognize many virtualities in the rules of the market, but we believe that the public authorities have an irreplaceable role in the regulation and operation of these same markets. this is a role which the european union and this parliament cannot afford to neglect. in the draft report on the european social model which will be debated in this same plenary session next september, we therefore insist that the european union should take a stance towards third countries with strong economic growth that promotes democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, environmental protection, social justice and the regulation of the labour market. we believe that europe should play a mobilizing role in order to secure a platform for balancing economic growth with the pursuit of high social and environmental standards in the new emerging world powers. if this orientation is to prevail on the external front, on the internal front the main concern will have to be to increase competitiveness. in this respect i would like to welcome and support the words spoken here today by the commissioner. what to do is laid down in the lisbon strategy. as for how to do this, i would like to reiterate once again that i still think it would be very positive to strengthen the role of the commission in implementing this same strategy. although globalisation may present an opportunity for european companies themselves, this same process, as the commission has pointed out, also involves risks within the european area. one of these risks is the possible disappearance from the european industrial map of regions and sectors whose economic basis is manufacturing. i therefore believe that it is very important for europe to intervene in the definition and implementation of public policies which promote regional and social cohesion and prevent exclusion. this is a point of the utmost political importance, because if we want to win over citizens to the european project, we cannot allow the feelings of loss of hope and confidence to spread in regions or among sections of the population. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to set up the globalisation adjustment fund. companies, like living things, are born, grow and die. the important thing in terms of job creation is that the birth rate of companies should always be higher than their death rate. as regards the role of the european union and its institutions, i believe that they should not support political initiatives aimed at keeping artificially alive industries or factories which are not viable in the medium term. it would be a wrong way, it would be a kind of escape forward that would feed mere meaningless illusions. the way forward is another one and is about increasing the competitiveness of the european economy, which depends on balanced public accounts, effective education and training systems, a timely judiciary, competitive tax systems, greater flexibility in labour markets and a strong incentive to research. without competitive economies there is no investment. without investment, there is no employment and no social justice. the european parliament should focus its activity on discussing and defining policy instruments which can contribute to the enhancement of the european union's competitiveness and regional and social cohesion. we are of course in favour of all initiatives aimed at controlling the use of public funds by private companies and we believe that this type of support should be linked to medium-term objectives in the field of employment and regional development. i do not think it is the european parliament's place to comment on individual cases, as seems to have been the case in the beginning of this debate. i would like to conclude by encouraging dialogue between the parties concerned with a view to finding the best solution which, according to the latest information i have received, can lead to a satisfactory outcome for all concerned.
the debate we are having is of the greatest importance, but it will be even more so if there are concrete measures to prevent workers and the population from always having to pay the costs of restructuring and relocating companies and economic groups with profits in the millions, as has happened in portugal in particular. at this moment the workers of opel portugal, of the general motors group, whom we greet through their representatives here, are living through a time of great anguish, following this debate closely and hoping that also in this european parliament and in the european commission there will be the solidarity they have received from the workers of general motors in various countries of the european union, in particular from sweden, germany and spain, who are also threatened in the future. while news is coming in in the media about negotiations between companies in the automobile sector involving general motors and others, the workers of opel portugal, their families, the local and regional populations and institutions in the azambuja area and neighbouring municipalities are facing the threat of unemployment and the blockage to development that their eventual closure would lead to, a situation all the more dramatic when we are in a country where unemployment and poverty are constantly increasing, despite the regrettable insensitivity shown here by mr silva peneda. more attention should be paid to industrial change and restructuring. it is essential that community aid be conditional on long-term agreements on employment and local development. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. we know that if there is political will it is possible to ensure the continuation of normal work in a company which has productive conditions and where commitments have been made and respected by the workers. general motors must respect its part and the european commission must take all the necessary measures to ensure the normal operation of opel portugal and employment with rights.
general motors is throwing thousands of european workers out of work. last year 9,000 jobs were eliminated in germany. this year it announced the elimination of 900 jobs in britain and more recently it announced the closure of the azambuja plant in portugal, which has been in operation for decades and employs 1,200 people. i would also like to take this opportunity to greet the representatives of the azambuja factory workers here and to express our solidarity with them. when we talk about thousands of unemployed, it is not just big numbers, it is not just statistics, it is not just percentages, it is human and family tragedies and i am indignant to see that some members have not shown any sensitivity to these tragedies. the closure of the azambuja plant concerns us all because it may be another step in the dismantling of other general motors plants in the european union and their relocation to the east, to russia and to asia. that's why this debate makes perfect sense. i am glad that mr martin schulz has taken the initiative of this agenda so that we can find some answers. first of all, what can be done to avoid the closure of the azambuja plant? this debate should also help multinationals to realise that they cannot use and throw away, receive community funds, tax incentives, etc. in one member state and then go to another in an attempt to receive new support and more advantages. closing factories can't be normal. it's not fair. it must be avoided and we must of course do everything possible, and the commission must do everything possible, to ensure that such situations do not recur in the future and that the globalisation adjustment fund is applied in particular in the event of the worst.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in azambuja is worrying. thousands of workers, some of whom are here, are threatened with losing their jobs. it's not just the gm workers. that's thousands of workers from supply companies. many of his relatives in azambuja and neighboring municipalities are also there. i have recently met with the committee on employment and the president of the city council and with my colleague, mrs jamila madeira, but i would like to point out that the issue is much more general and has a wider scope at european level. we know of general motors' strategic difficulties and its call for renault-nissan to intervene in its management, but this does not absolve it, does not relieve it of its responsibilities. the resolution we are proposing confronts general motors with its european responsibilities, but it mentions explicitly and precisely the situation in azambuja. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, strategic changes and business restructuring must take into account that workers are human beings and not just factors of production. the european union must have a precise strategy, a more appropriate way of dealing with these problems if it is to have a living european social model. the resolution we have tabled is a good step in that direction.
the situation which has already been referred to here and which is currently being experienced by the workers of the general motors plant in portugal is unfortunately recurring in recent times in the european union, as has also been referred to here. companies receive community and state aid and incentives to set up in certain regions and countries and, in defiance of all the rules of conduct required, relocate without any prejudice or respect for the hundreds or thousands of workers, and often entire families, who become unemployed overnight. the easy search for profit maximisation and the phenomenon of globalisation cannot justify the economic and social drama of the weakest in the corporate chain. the globalisation adjustment fund, which was approved by the european council in december, is neither designed nor capable of protecting all the situations that are occurring in europe, and is in fact a fund that is intentionally targeted at a small number of redundancies and countries as a result of the changes in world trade. it takes more. to do this, the european union must clearly define the course of action to be followed by companies producing in europe or those wishing to reach this market of 455 million consumers with their products. to be a real reference in the world we must first demand respect for the european social model and respect for human rights and, of course, do it differently.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. commissioner, i hope that this debate will help the european commission to pay greater attention to the importance of the various industrial sectors in the european union, to their fundamental contribution to wealth and job creation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. we cannot continue a policy of negotiations within the world trade organisation which ignores the various industrial sectors, employment with rights, regional development and economic and social cohesion. the committee on employment has tried to draw attention to these issues in the opinion i am presenting and which the committee on industry has taken into account for the most part, but i insist on the need to protect workers whenever processing undertakings are restructured, including the full guarantee of information and decisive influence throughout the process.
the report by joan calabuig rull, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a policy framework to strengthen the eu's manufacturing industry - towards a more integrated approach to industrial policy (2006/2003 (ini)) (a6-0206/2006) follows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council common position on the adoption of a european parliament and council directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and repealing council directive 82/714/eec (13274/1/2005 - c6-0091/2006 - 1997/0335 (cod)) (rapporteur: renate sommer) (a6-0208/2006) is hereby adopted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (eec) no 3922/91 on the harmonisation of technical rules and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation (a6-0212/2006) is adopted.
mr president, i consider your programme to be clear, pragmatic and credible, which has not been the case in all presidencies, and i think that it has among its priorities some which we consider essential, among them the russian question and energy. but on the russian question we must understand each other. it is not worth negotiating with russia only on the energy issue. russia is too important a partner and we need to involve russia in international affairs because that is the way we can also influence the human rights and democratic situation in this great country. another priority which he has put forward, and with which we agree, is the europe of results, which the president of the commission has insisted on and fought for, despite the difficulties of the constitution. but the europe of results has a lot to do with growth and employment and it must be said that the intergovernmental approach which has been followed for the lisbon strategy has produced disappointing and mediocre results. the commission must be given the appropriate responsibilities and means to define a roadmap so that we can grow, so that we can have more jobs, as we did for the internal market and the single currency. what we have now is useless and will increasingly be a disappointment to our citizens. finally, mr prime minister, i think the reflection you suggest on europe in 2020 is very welcome. we must start thinking today about the europe of the future we want, and it is in this pragmatic, open and, i hope, transparent perspective that i place my faith in this finnish presidency. i hope that at the end of the presidency i will have words of congratulation for you, mrs exa.
mr president-in-office, i am not going to play offensive, i leave that to the portuguese national team tonight, who i hope will beat france. the president-in-office said that we were living in a time of challenges: the challenges of globalisation, the climate challenge, demographic challenges, etc. and that we should look to the future with courage. we agree. the lisbon strategy is the answer to these challenges and to the knowledge triangle that the president of the european commission has spoken of. the lisbon strategy is the best instrument to modernise the european economy and stimulate and create more jobs with social cohesion. more and better europe, then. finland is a successful case of economic competitiveness based on knowledge and innovation. it's a paradigm of modernization and progress. the finnish presidency therefore has exceptional conditions, but also great responsibilities, to give impetus to the lisbon agenda. i ask: is the finnish presidency prepared to do so? the second question concerns the policy of gender equality. finland also has special responsibilities in this area. what concrete measures will you propose to the council to promote equality between men and women at all levels?
despite a more nordic tone in some cases, the finnish presidency's programme essentially insists on recurring themes in the european union, emphasizing the priority given to the completion of the internal market, the liberalisation of the services market, competition, the re-purposed bolkestein directive, i.e. the priorities of the european employers' organizations, of which unice is an expression. the social aspects, which will tend to be aggravated by the liberalization policies which the deepening of the internal market, particularly in the services sector, will bring about, remain secondary. however, instead of a policy of autonomy from us policies at international level, with the exception of some nordic overtones and relations resulting from the neighbourhood with russia, it insisted on progress in militarization with an emphasis on intervention forces for civil and military intervention in crises. he also promised to step up intervention in the areas of justice and home affairs, which, in the light of the european commission's agenda, underlines the concerns we have about the move towards a 'fortress europe' in immigration policies. that is why we have low expectations of the objectives of this presidency, which does not even deserve the benefit of the doubt, because we disagree with most of its priorities.
in the face of yet another criminal escalation of the israeli offensive against the palestinian people and their institutions, the european union, through a statement by the presidency of the council, is once again unacceptably blaming israel and the palestinian people for the situation, in effect whitewashing israel's brutal policy of aggression and occupation of palestine, which systematically violates international law and disrespects the inalienable right of the palestinian people to their own independent state. the european union has no words to condemn the current israeli military aggression, which, given its scale and scope, has long been in the making, waiting for a pretext. criminal military action which is part of a long-planned strategy by israel to destroy the palestinian authority, its institutions and the infrastructure that supports it, including those that meet the most basic needs of the population. the strategy is to impose de facto by israel - the construction of the wall proves this - the annexation of occupied territories and the attempt to make impossible the conditions necessary for the creation of a sovereign, independent and viable palestinian state. so solidarity with the plo and the palestinian people is called for.
in writing. the proposal aims to strengthen the effectiveness of contacts between law enforcement and security and public order authorities in the different member states in order to improve planning of crossborder police assistance to be provided during certain international events. it is proposed that in the last quarter of each year the presidency of the council draw up a list of international events planned for the following year and of the needs foreseen in terms of assistance. it is also planned that the presidency will annually carry out an assessment of the international assistance provided during the previous year, which should include a list of problems and difficulties noted by the member states and recommendations for their resolution. i therefore support the report by mrs frieda brepoels and the amendments she has tabled. this is a justified and welcome proposal. it is essential that we take all the necessary measures to ensure that public security and order can be maintained during international events with a large number of participants from several member states and that any punishable acts can be prevented and suppressed.
in writing. the proposal to draw up a list of international events - involving, for example, citizens from several member states - in the countries of the european union, which will require greater cooperation between the security services of the different member states, leads us to be extremely cautious about the real purpose of this initiative and the use of this mechanism. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. an example which, after all, demonstrates what 'providing crossborder assistance' between security services for the 'maintaining of public order and security' and the 'prevention and repression of criminal acts' can mean. this initiative is part of the security drift promoted by the european union, which has followed the adoption of other measures which, under the pretext of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', call into question the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. that is why our group voted against.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague frieda brepoels on the timely report produced on the initiative of the kingdom of the netherlands with a view to the adoption of a council decision on the strengthening of crossborder police cooperation in the event of events involving a large number of people from several member states and where the police action is mainly aimed at maintaining public order and security and preventing and punishing criminal acts, which i support, in particular with regard to the possibility of adding to the list presented to the presidency of the council in the previous year a civilian unexpected international event involving a large number of people from several member states. the free movement of persons requires that the eu also consider police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in order to create an area of freedom, security and justice in the community area.
in writing. the majority of the ep rejected the amendments we tabled, which were aimed at protecting the rights of workers and ensuring the safety of passengers, in particular the amendments seeking to ensure:- that no provision of this regulation may be used or invoked, in particular in the context of relations between member states, to infringe the rights and conditions of remuneration, work, qualifications and training of the various categories of civil aviation staff; - the reduction of flight duty time - a maximum of 160 hours in any 28 consecutive days, spread as evenly as possible over the whole period and a maximum of 40 hours in any 7 consecutive days with 2 days' rest - so that flight and cabin crew are able to ensure safe conditions; - the existence of certification of qualified cabin crew, through the need to obtain an appropriate and valid licence acceptable to the competent authority, certifying that the professionals have the appropriate qualifications and competence to perform the tasks assigned to them. which we consider regrettable.
in writing. it is positive that the european parliament voted in favour of two proposals in the report aimed at promoting a socially inclusive knowledge-based society, for example by supporting free and open source software, and another that stressed that better research and innovation policies should contribute to new job opportunities through sustainable development. it is noted that these proposals were put forward by our group and that we also endorsed them during the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee. the focus on lifelong learning and the role of universities in the creation and dissemination of knowledge and the attention paid to small and medium-sized enterprises are also positive. however, it also has less positive aspects, in particular in the area of intellectual property, its defence of the entrepreneurial spirit from the earliest stages of education and the overall basis on which this whole position is based, which is, in general, the defence of competition. that is why we abstained.
in writing. a european knowledge-based economy, the most dynamic and competitive in the world by 2010, were the objectives set by the lisbon european council in march 2000. however, in 2006, the european union is far from achieving these objectives. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals for europe to improve its performance in particular in knowledge creation, knowledge sharing and funding. the lack of investment in r&d and the promotion of an entrepreneurial spirit that values innovation, as well as the lack of political and financial support for lifelong learning and ict training, are to be highlighted. secondly, europe is not sharing its knowledge. there are still significant obstacles to the ability of operators in the sector to cooperate with each other within and across national borders. finally, europe is not funding knowledge. in this context, community policies should reinforce programmes such as the financial instruments of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme or the jeremie initiative (joint european resources for micro and medium-sized enterprises).
in writing. although this is an own-initiative report with no legislative impact, the considerations and concerns expressed here deserve my agreement. the idea that research and innovation will have to be central to the new economic paradigm, which europe lacks, is fundamental. but it must be noted that there is a huge and regrettable distance between the lisbon objective and reality. europe has not responded adequately to the evidence that the mastery of technology and investment in material and human resources in research and innovation are fundamental to development and growth, especially in the current context of the world economy. this observation, expressed in this resolution, together with several of the measures advocated in it - particularly with regard to the redefinition of research and innovation strategies - justifies my vote in favour. it is important, however, that we move from words to deeds. there will be no europe of results without a europe of investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the innovation and research sectors are essential elements for creating more and better jobs in the european union. in this context, smes play a key role as a transmission belt between universities and the business sector. the main reasons for the failure to implement the lisbon strategy are well known: poor performance by member states, fragmentation of labour markets, inefficient and inadequate use of human resources and reduced mobility of the european workforce. i regret that the member states are not providing the necessary political and financial support for the creation of a flexible workforce capable of adapting to the new realities of the labour markets, nor are they valuing their researchers. i therefore call for the abolition of the administrative and legal barriers which prevent researchers from being more mobile, the creation of better working conditions, in other words the creation of a genuine 'single market' for researchers, attractive and prestigious in order to stop the flight of european brains. i also advocate the promotion of entrepreneurship from the earliest stages of education and the strengthening of lifelong learning by actively encouraging training in new technologies for workers and the unemployed.
in writing. the report contains a number of contradictions. on the one hand, it gives prominence to negative aspects, of which the emphasis on competitiveness and competition issues is outstanding, and it insists on industrial restructuring and modernisation measures in the face of 'fierce international competition', which we already know has negative results. but it also includes proposals which we have tabled in the committee on employment and social affairs, such as the proposal to ask the commission to refuse community aid to undertakings which, after having benefited from it in one member state, transfer their production activities to another country without fully complying with the contracts concluded with the member state in question. the inclusion of the proposal to give equal priority to the working environment and the health and safety of workers with a view to ensuring the creation of more and better jobs and also to protecting the rights of workers whenever manufacturing companies are restructured and, therefore, to fully guaranteeing the availability of information for workers' representative bodies is also emphasized. that is why we abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that a dynamic and highly competitive industry is a necessary precondition for achieving better social standards. the study presented by the commission gives a detailed picture of the 27 sectors of manufacturing industries and wisely combines a set of sectoral actions with horizontal initiatives. i agree with the rapporteur that a coherent industrial policy at european level should be developed to meet the challenges of globalisation. although the eu is an economy based mainly on the service sector, it is also a world industrial power. it therefore makes perfect sense to develop european industrial competitiveness strategies, to promote european entrepreneurship and corporate social responsibility. i am convinced that the future of european manufacturing industries lies in increasing the added value and quality of products, as well as a skilled and flexible workforce. i also support this report because it stresses the importance of the high regional concentration of manufacturing industries. i am in favour of the regional and national authorities working closely with local economic and social actors to draw up local strategic plans for better exploitation of primary sector production and any other comparative advantage of each region.
madam minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the vice-president of the commission, mr franco frattini, for his exemplary cooperation with our committee and hope that his example will be followed by the council in the second half of our work. i would like to say first of all that, as mr kreissl-dörfler has already said, this is an interim report. we cannot accuse this document of not containing the conclusions proper to a final report. secondly, i would like to thank all the members of the committee i chair, and in particular the rapporteur, mr claudio fava, for the rigorous, serious and high-quality work they have produced in the commission, and i would like to thank our staff in particular. thirdly, i would like to remind you that 70 people were heard in all the hearings, more than 50 hours of testimony were given, two missions were made abroad, namely to the united states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and thousands of documents were analysed. as a provisional assessment, i believe that, in addition to justifying the setting up of this committee, there is the finding that there have been illegal actions in europe, that it is now necessary to assess their scale and the involvement of the member states, that it is necessary to strengthen the control of airspace and airport facilities, that it is necessary to strengthen, as commissioner franco frattini has said, the democratic control over the activities of the secret services and to monitor better the activities of foreign secret services on european soil. by approving this report, we are asking the bureau for working conditions to find out the truth of what happened, by approving this report, with the fundamental amendments tabled by the ppe, we are contributing to a balanced, factual and fair report, because we do not want this serious and rigorous work to be confused with some kind of political propaganda.
the martin and fava reports confirm that a gang that has no regard for the means and disregards the essential values of justice and human rights has infiltrated the administration of our american ally and has obtained the active and passive complicity of our governments and state services in the practice of kidnapping, abduction, torture and other crimes against suspected terrorists, but who have not yet been tried or even charged in a court of law. the us supreme court has just ruled that in the prisons from guantanamo to kabul where so-called unlawful combatants rot, washington is not only keeping them out of the law, it is imprisoning them in violation of both american and international law. in violation of laws that have served and continue to serve to try and punish the most abject criminals, including the nazis. in indicting the bush administration, the supreme court also indicted the immorally conniving european rulers and agents. this committee of inquiry, which is being seriously led by my colleagues coelho and fava, can and must demand immediate reinforcement of parliamentary control of the security services in the member states and extrusive inspections of airport authorities to prevent further extraordinary renditions. this committee of inquiry can help to clarify to what levels and degrees of political responsibility the european connivance has been processed. it can and must demand that the courts do justice by compensating those who have suffered innocently and by punishing in an exemplary manner those who, instead of defending the rule of law, have perverted it, with the added insult that by violating the law and human rights they have not served european and global security and defence, but have rather played the terrorists' game.
mr president, madam minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i was concerned by the allegations published in the new york times about a secret programme of the cia's responsibility for monitoring the swift consortium database, based in belgium, through which most of the world's financial transactions pass. that program was not only confirmed by swift but also by the us treasury secretary. it is essential that we reiterate on both sides of the atlantic our determination to carry out a ruthless and effective fight against terrorism, while fully respecting fundamental rights and the rule of law. regardless of my personal views on this matter, we are apparently dealing with a transfer of data to the united states for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and other crimes, i.e. operations relating to public security and the activities of the member state in its area of criminal law. and if so, we are clearly outside community law. that is what i had understood from commissioner frattini's first reaction, through his spokesman, when he referred to the extra-community nature of this matter. i do not know whether it was a translation problem or whether vice-president frattini actually informed us today that in his view directive 95/46 applies. this is a question we have to solve; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in any event, it is for the member states to protect such data. i therefore welcome the decision of the belgian government to open investigations to ascertain the veracity of the facts and their legality under national law and look forward to the results.
the question period is now over (b6-0312/2006). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0503/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of the bridge clause at their meeting in vienna on 27 and 28 may 2006, the eu foreign ministers apparently failed to reach agreement on a commission proposal to use the nice treaty's bridge clause to transfer new competences in the field of justice and home affairs from the third to the first community 'pillar'. what steps does the finnish presidency intend to take to make progress towards more effective, democratic and transparent decision-making in this area?
question no 2 by mr richard seeber (h-0505/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: framework convention on climate change and the environment following the successful outcome of the cop11/mop1 in montreal at the end of 2005, it is now essential to steer and move rapidly forward the new processes initiated, namely the negotiations on commitments for the period after 2012 and the dialogue on long-term joint actions under the framework convention on climate change. can the presidency report on the progress made in this context at the 24th meeting of the subsidiary bodies of the framework convention on climate change, held in bonn from 15 to 26 may 2006?
question no 3 by mr bernd posselt (h-0508/06) subject: negotiations on the status of kosovo how does the presidency of the council assess the current state of play in the negotiations on the status of kosovo?
question no 4 by mr nicholson of winterbourne (h-0510/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: common operational guidelines for dealing with kidnappers the high number of kidnappings in iraq over the past few years is worrying. most of the cases reported are of great importance, because they involve workers, journalists and engineers in charge of reconstruction, all of whom are foreign nationals. however, the number of foreign nationals kidnapped in iraq is in fact very small compared to the thousands of iraqis kidnapped. experts are unanimous that kidnappings in iraq are carried out by a large number of criminal and terrorist groups, for very different reasons but, in most cases, for financial reasons. the recent indications that some eu member states have paid large ransoms to criminal and terrorist groups in exchange for the release of kidnapped national citizens are therefore of particular concern. the payment of ransoms is a particularly undesirable and short-sighted measure, as it encourages the proliferation of kidnappings rather than having a deterrent effect, thereby exposing foreigners and iraqis to increased risks. in this context, what steps can the council take to establish common guidelines and codes of conduct for eu member states facing such a threat in iraq and elsewhere?
question no 5 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0513/06) subject: the need for a comprehensive immigration policy in view of the recent agreements on the control of the external borders of the union in the maritime zones around the canary islands and in view of the requirements of the unity of the european area of freedom, security and justice, does the council not consider that the time has come to formulate a comprehensive immigration policy for the whole of the union, which will allow us to ensure stable labour markets within our territory and to channel the strong migratory pressures that are being exerted at our external borders?
question no 6 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0586/06) subject: measures to accept and better integrate immigrants what measures does the council propose to take to ensure that european citizens are actively involved in decisions to convert illegal immigration into legal immigration and to accept the need for the integration of immigrants?
question no 7 by mr eugenijus gentvilas (h-0516/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: differences between the tax systems of the eu countries alfred finz, representing the austrian government, answered on 17 may a number of questions from members of the european parliament concerning corporation tax in the various eu countries. in response to a question from mr ryan, mr finz said that certain member states had recently introduced new tax systems under which companies were taxed at rates significantly lower than in the old member states. mr finz considers that these reduced tax rates constitute unfair competition which must be brought to an end. does the presidency not consider that the new member states had the right to introduce their own new tax systems? does the council not share the view that attempts at tax uniformity illustrate the will of the old member states to solve their economic problems at the expense of the new member states?
question no 8 by jacky henin (h-0519/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: council action against the weakness of the dollar the united states, by deliberately organizing the fall of the dollar against the euro, is waging a ruthless economic war against the european union. the continuing and voluntary fall in the dollar is destroying thousands of jobs every month in the european union. airbus is thus obliged to invoice its subcontractors in dollars rather than in euros. this favours american companies and consequently the european aircraft is in fact, by more than 40%, an american aircraft. what political, diplomatic and economic retaliatory measures does the council intend to take to force the united states to support its currency so that free and undistorted competition between the european union and the united states can finally be established?
question no 9 by mr john bowis (h-0528/06) subject: questions to the council does the council intend to review its procedures for answering questions put to it by members of parliament?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
i too am suffering at the moment from the game between portugal and france, which, contrary to mr colbert's predictions, is exactly that and not between france and england. the subject of democratic control of regulatory acts which is being discussed here today is a sign of the new times of european democracy. europe is no longer an intergovernmental area and a mere negotiating area. europe is a united and integrated area. it wants to be a democracy and it wants its own legitimacy, which is much more than the sum of the legitimacies of the states. the decision-making and implementation procedures are involved in this journey into a new era. after all, it is in these procedures that the challenge to the legitimacy and legitimacy of all political orders is concentrated. the challenge of transparency, the challenge of accountability, the challenge of effectiveness, the challenge of acceptance and trust of the recipients. parliamentary control of legislative acts, which is already well advanced in a constitution which is still pending, is more than matching the democratic power to legislate with the democratic power to control. the european institutions are assuming here that europe must have the profile of a true european democracy and that a true european democracy is not compatible with executive acts, bureaucratically alienated from public opinion and its representative institutions. this is only a small step, a small step in the unstoppable construction of a strong and democratic european centre, with decision-making chains open to a permanent scrutiny of legitimacy. it would be desirable to involve national parliaments in the appointment of national experts to the committees. in a european democracy, which has as its ideal and project the concept of comitology, the reality of networking will strengthen rather than weaken the legitimacy of political union.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that i have spoken in this house about the need for a european policy on legal immigration - for humanitarian and economic reasons - and the urgent need for measures to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking. the two proposals before us are important and useful. i would like to refer first to that of mr lambrinidis and say to commissioner frattini that the commission's proposal is very positive and quite balanced, but i fear that the rapporteur has gone a little too far on some points, particularly from the point of view of political rights. the integration of immigrants must be pursued, but we must not forget that it is a two-way street: the host countries have to make an effort to integrate them, but immigrants have to do their part in this integration effort. i agree with mr lambrinidis that it is regrettable that the consultation procedure and the unanimity requirement are still maintained throughout the whole area of legal immigration and i agree with the recommendation to use the bridge clause provided for in the treaty in order to give the european parliament co-decision powers. i would also like to stress the importance of mr gaubert's report, which seeks to establish a web-based information system on these matters. although the implementation of integration initiatives is done at the local level, it is global in its implications. difficulties in one member state in defining and implementing its integration policies have social and economic consequences in other member states. it is therefore in the union's interest that member states implement effective integration strategies, the results of which serve the common interests. it can and should be the responsibility of the union to monitor and compare the results of integration efforts in order to contribute to the rapid adoption of best practices.
we agree that the problems raised by migration flows cannot be solved at national level. europe has failed to meet the immigrants who seek it. the union is concerned with capital and the movement of goods, but not with those who dream of a decent life in europe. i therefore support greater transparency and the general spirit of the proposals put forward by mr stavros lambrinidis. immigration is a total social fact. it says everything about us. but make no mistake: the south will always come to the north, and all the more so as the north does not meet the south. immigration is not a police matter. there is only one fair criterion for our choices: respect for human dignity. europe cannot talk about human rights if it does not practice them in its own home. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. that's what needs to change, that footballers are no exception.
the report by mrs carlotti is moving in the right direction. it notes that development aid is necessary but not sufficient. it proposes new instruments and measures which can improve the living conditions of immigrants and their relationship with their countries of origin. it's a fair and intelligent approach. it replaces the current policy of concentrating on border controls with a strategy of two-way migration flows. fortress europe is doomed and its price is unacceptable: death in the mediterranean. all that's missing is commitment. a clear position on detention centres, which are unacceptable. the rapporteur also acknowledges that an invisible border puts citizens on one side and those without papers who are condemned to live in hiding on the other. what about the consequences, undocumented immigrants? no, i'm not going. temporary work permits? i'm not sure. this is where the principle of citizenship comes in.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, at a time when negotiations at the world trade organisation have once again reached a deadlock, it is good to see this house enjoying a report on fair trade. we know that it is still a waste from the global economic point of view and that a million farmers are now benefiting from it. there are many and very few of them, and that is precisely why the european union must commit itself to fair trade, if only to alleviate the awareness of a common agricultural policy that spreads hunger and misery in the countries of the south. fair trade may well be a flower in your lapel, commissioner. others, such as farmers, marketing networks and discerning consumers, will be able to give it a new lease of life. mr schmidt has some good proposals, in particular the reduction of vat and the abolition of import duties, but the value of the report is something else, something else still, it points to a way forward and a principle of hope. with fair trade, the world can be a much better place.
in writing. like the rapporteur, i consider that the commission's proposal to simplify the management of the union's external aid and the concomitant reduction to six of the various existing instruments (about 30!) makes perfect sense. many of the amendments proposed in your report deserve my support, in particular those relating to the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in the programming and monitoring of the programmes developed under the enpi; of civil society organisations in the consultation process; and of local and regional authorities and civil society as partners. however, i regret that the neighbourhood of the outermost regions (e.g. cape verde) has not been included in the scope of the enp. this is all the more so since, in the context of the strategy for the sustainable development of the octs proposed by the commission and as an instrument for pursuing one of its priority lines of action, the integration of these regions into their regional environment was envisaged in an action plan for the wider neighbourhood aimed at facilitating cooperation between the octs and their neighbouring countries. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the last decade has seen a dramatic increase in terrorist acts worldwide, which has made the fight against this scourge one of the main political priorities at european and world level. this proposal is part of a series of measures being taken by the union to reduce access to financial and other economic resources for terrorists. it intends to transpose into community law the special recommendation 7 on electronic transfers of the financial action task force. it aims to facilitate the work of authorities responsible for combating money laundering and terrorism by laying down rules on the obligation to provide information on the payer at the time of the transfer of funds. it will be a useful and effective step towards the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorists or other criminals and the tracing of their assets. i agree with the derogations provided for, which are intended to take account of the specificities of the payment systems of the different member states. i support the position expressed by mr brejc that it is unthinkable to accept a sunset clause, whereby this regulation should expire within five years if it does not prove its usefulness, and i support the compromise reached between him and the rapporteur.
in writing. the amendment to the financial regulation would aim to simplify and make more transparent its rules - as regards external contracts and grants - which, due to their lack of clarity and poor structuring, are difficult for potential users to understand. moreover, this bureaucratic set of rules, which is only the domain of a few within the european commission's dgs, entails high costs - due to the processing of applications - for suppliers and organisations applying for these grants, which excludes many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as smaller associations, institutes and ngos. the commission also has a discretion in this process, with only a few companies and associations - always the same ones - mastering these 'mechanisms'. this will ultimately serve to make clear political choices about who to support and who not to support. however, as the court of auditors itself has stated, the revision presented is not sufficient to reduce the burden and simplify the procedures for both the commission and potential users. the european parliament's proposals improve this situation, but they still fall short of the urgently needed overall revision of the financial regulation in these areas.
in writing. we voted against this resolution for several reasons:- the failure to include any mention of solidarity with the workers of opel/gm, in particular the more than 1700 workers (and their families) at the opel azambuja plant in portugal, whose jobs are threatened by gm management, regardless of the economic, social and regional consequences that would follow. it was the position imposed by the right wing, with the consent of the european socialist party, which signed this joint resolution; - the defence of the right of companies to take management decisions designed to ensure their economic growth, regardless of the social consequences that would follow; - the disregard for the economic and social consequences of restructuring, which is generally carried out in a logic of merely reducing costs and maximising profits, without regard to factors of economic viability or productivity, often without respecting contractual obligations and taking advantage, in a mercenary way, of local, national and community public aid, leaving behind a trail of unemployment and jeopardising local economies. last year alone, restructuring resulted in more than half a million unemployed in the european union;- the resolution falls far short of the results achieved in the resolutions of march this year on the effects of relocations and restructuring on employment and regional development.
in writing. it is true that the entrepreneurial spirit and the role of enterprises are indispensable for economic growth and development, and it is also true that the substantial economic changes we are going through require the restructuring of many enterprises. of course, corporate social responsibility. but also the duty to comply with agreements and to respect contracts, particularly where there have been grants and subsidies awarded in the context of a given action. the considerations, concerns and proposals in this resolution deserve my agreement. i believe, however, that the wise establishment of the european globalisation adjustment fund should alert us in good time to the scale of the problem at hand and require us to look for profound solutions. the process of restructuring the european business fabric, particularly the industrial one, is under way and will have positive consequences, which we hope, but also negative effects in the social field, especially at first. europe, the various governments and the community institutions have the duty to prepare for this very near future today. in addition to this fund, other solutions need to be discussed and investments made in other mechanisms.
in writing. the report contains positive elements that confirm what has long been known and denounced: that the cia, or other us agencies, were 'directly responsible for the abduction, removal, kidnapping and illegal detention' of citizens - euphemistically referred to as 'extraordinary rendition' - as well as for the transfer of citizens to third countries for interrogation and torture, in brutal violation of international law and human rights. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from the threat of terrorism. the report should help to demystify the real meaning of the so-called 'preventive war' and 'war on terrorism' with which the us and its allies seek to cover up their aggression against peoples and the sovereignty of states, in violation of international law and human rights. the report should also help to establish the truth and accountability, in particular to clarify the content of the agreements concluded within nato and between the eu and the us in this context, and to enable each national parliament to carry out its own inquiries.
in writing. what is at stake in this report cannot be taken lightly. both human rights and the fight against terrorism, as well as relations with our main ally, deserve special attention and consideration. what emerges from this interim report is that there is a set of unresolved doubts and suspicions, along with contradictory statements from various entities. it is therefore understandable that the commission's work should continue, but it is not reasonable to draw conclusions which are not proved. more seriously, the refusal of several amendments which were intended to include in the report what is relevant contradicts some of the accusations and insinuations, reveals a desire to antagonize an allied country which is superior to the desire to establish the truth. i will not contribute to that understanding of the role of the european parliament or of the eu's external relations. i believe it is possible that both european countries and our allies make mistakes and commit acts contrary to the law, which should be known and punished, but i am not prepared to accuse without investigating or condemn without proof.
in writing. although it includes aspects with which we disagree, we believe that this resolution should help to highlight the real nature of the so-called 'fight against terrorism' and the security drift which also characterizes it. through the terrorist finance surveillance program, the u.s. has, through a secret agreement, accessed all financial data stored by swift (society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunications), which is a cooperative of over 8000 banks and institutions in 200 countries, including the european central bank. the us thus had access to millions of information on the transfers and banking transactions of citizens and businesses worldwide. access to this information was carried out in breach of legal procedures relating to data protection and without any legal basis, violating rights, freedoms and guarantees, as well as the sovereign competence of states to protect their citizens. the truth must be clarified and responsibility for this unacceptable situation must be established, particularly as regards the role and the action of the european central bank. this is not an isolated case. this is just the tip of the iceberg of the real meaning of the security drift which is putting the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens in question.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mr stavros lambrinidis, on his excellent report on the strategies and means of integrating immigrants in the european union, which i support. i would stress in this context the need to ensure the effective application of the community directives on the integration of immigrants. the european union needs to monitor the transposition of the integration-related directives and the effectiveness of administrative practices that apply the relevant legislation to the daily lives of immigrants.
in writing. while i share the rapporteur's concerns, i cannot agree with all the proposals he has put forward to solve one of the central problems raised by immigration: integration. first of all, and to cite just a few examples, the confusion between immigration from candidate countries (particularly in the past) and from other countries is an error of analysis which is revealed in the conclusions; there is an error in the assumptions that the more than 40 million third-country nationals make immigrants the '26th (and fifth largest) eu member state'; and finally, the idea - which was taken up by the gue group in particular - that the states which grant citizenship to immigrants should be imposed, without recalling that this matter has different regulations and various reasons for being, is to be simplistic with what is not simple. there is currently a problem of integration of some immigrant communities into the european union, and no european model seems to be working fully and effectively. integration is a two-way process. it must be facilitated by the country of arrival (by the public authorities and citizens) and desired and practiced by immigrants. failure to recognize this reality is to give space to extremist movements on both sides.
in writing. although the report contains aspects which we regard as positive, and which we therefore support, it does not criticise the immigration policy pursued at european union level or denounce the root causes of the migration of millions of men and women throughout the world. the report omits criticism of the eu's immigration policy, which has as its primary objective the exploitation of cheap and unrighteous labour, while implementing repressive measures, seeking to criminalize immigrants, men and women, who simply aspire to the right to live - access to food, health, water, housing, education or culture - the right to a job and an income. the report also ignores the root causes of migration, which are rooted in deep inequalities, which are also becoming more pronounced. inequalities that are generated by neoliberal and militarist policies, which are, in fact, at the heart of capitalist globalization. policies of liberalization and privatization which aim to promote the concentration of wealth and property in the large economic and financial groups, seeking to use the states to pursue their interests, even if this does not require the use of interference and war to impose their dictates.
in writing. this report, even if it is originally drafted with the best of intentions, does not go to the bottom of the problem. it is of course essential to ensure a fair income for the producer - covering production costs and ensuring a sustainable life for him - as well as his involvement in the marketing process, among many other positive points which are written in this report. however, it should not be hidden that the general lines which characterize so-called fair trade are in flagrant contradiction with the policies of liberalization of world trade, promoted, in particular, at the level of the wto (not to mention the bilateral free trade agreements, so encouraged by the us and the eu), which seek to shape the production systems of the economically less developed countries to the needs of expansion of the large economic and financial groups of the countries of the "north". what is needed is a policy which respects the right of peoples to use natural resources and to develop the productive and economic potential of their countries in order to improve their living conditions; which encourages mutually beneficial cooperation and guarantees food sovereignty; which ensures control and public ownership of natural resources and strategic sectors of the economy.
in writing. as is well known, there are over 65 million people worldwide who are hiv positive, and about 25 million have died, and about 15 million children have been orphaned by aids. this situation is particularly acute in developing countries, where more than 95% of the estimated 40 million people currently living with the virus live, with sub-saharan africa alone accounting for more than 70%. in the light of this serious situation, it is particularly important to highlight the situation of women, who represent more than half of the people living with aids in the world and 60% of the population infected with the virus, and are two to four times more likely to contract the disease than men. while stressing the declaration of the united nations general assembly of 2 june 2006, in particular its references to the promotion of access to medicines for all, including the production of generic antiretroviral medicines and other medicines of critical importance for the treatment of aids-related infections, it regrets that the declaration does not include any global targets or timetables for treatment, resources and prevention, nor does it present a viable action plan to support the objective of, by 2010,... (declaration for a vote abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1))
i have joined the european parliament delegation in geneva and i want to make two positive points: the first is the good coordination between the commission and the members present. as mentioned above, contacts with commissioners mandelson and fisher boel and their staff were daily. a permanent exchange of information was ensured and the work of members acquired added value. the second is that the image of the european union was that of an active bloc prepared to negotiate, unlike other partners, particularly the united states. that said, there is no doubt that the negotiations have entered the red zone, which is bad for the world and for europe. in europe we need to strengthen competitiveness, growth and employment. to do this we must ensure that industrial firms (nama) and services have effective access to more dynamic markets, we must ensure respect for intellectual property and negotiate a level playing field in the environment and society that regulates international competition. some questions: what is europe's actual capacity to find in the doha round the answer, even if only partial, to these problems? secondly, if no agreement is reached in july, as is expected, what strategy will the european union develop? you mentioned a new set of proposals in september. can you give us some details about that? thirdly, is the extreme difficulty in achieving results in the current doha round due to normal difficulties, or does the multilateral model of world trade harmonization, which i personally advocate, need to be renewed and possibly supplemented?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported into the european union from third countries is of undeniable importance and constitutes a significant step forward in the application of the principles of fairness and transparency in international trade transactions. the indication of the mark of origin contains a high concentration of information enabling european consumers to make their choices with a heightened degree of awareness. this, of course, means a significant extension of your rights. but this new situation can and should have other consequences, since it will allow a clearer comparison of the quality of the products to be expected and of the circumstances surrounding the production processes themselves. in the purchase of one of the many products covered by this proposal, european consumers will, among other things, be able to compare different regulatory models in dealing with such important issues as environmental, social and safety issues. it is to be hoped that this will have very favourable consequences for european production, with a particularly positive impact on the small and mediumsized enterprises and on the sectors most exposed to external competition. such consequences cannot be understood as the result of adopting a protectionist stance but rather as the product of a more demanding attitude in terms of transparency and fairness. it is a firm choice on this path that will be able to inspire european public opinion to join a process of progressive liberalization of international trade, and prevent it from being seduced by the siren song of protectionist and anti-liberal discourse, which is always ready to resurface in all political segments. we are therefore faced with a fair and timely proposal which must be implemented quickly, since we do not find the arguments put forward by those who wish to oppose it sufficiently pertinent. the commission must take the necessary steps to overcome the remaining obstacles so that the european union can take this important step towards the promotion of genuinely free, fair and equitable trade.
author. – mr president, the horn of africa is plagued by disastrous political failures, not just of the making of local powers, but also compounded by a series of misguided international actions and mostly inactions. the failed state of somalia is just the most glaring example. the procrastination of the ethiopian regime in solving the border question with eritrea and the awful human rights, democracy and development records of the regimes in both asmara and addis ababa are another sad example of international neglect of the region. so it is no wonder that international terrorists are taking advantage of so much conflict in such a lawless region. it looks as though they are getting more of what they want for their murderous purposes. rumours are spreading that the government of prime minister meles zenawi is dragging igad into violating the arms embargo imposed by the un security council in somalia. he is sending hundreds of thousands of troops into baidoa. last week i was in washington and new york and i got confirmation from important sources within the administration and the un that preparations by the ethiopian army to march even further towards mogadishu are under way. they are backed and blessed by the us in a very misguided policy. it is as if the lesson has not been drawn from the latest fiasco that drove the islamic courts into power in mogadishu. this will provide even more grounds for the terrorist actions of al-qa’ida. there could be a reignition of the eritrean-ethiopian border conflict not just in somalia but in the region as a whole. there could be more rebellions inside ethiopia, leading to disintegration. the eu has to take a stand on that, and i would urge the council and the commission to warn against this interference and to ensure that the somalia contact group be given all the support it needs to work towards a political solution that does not fail, as the previous 14 attempts have done.
mr president, on 12 september it will be eight years since the unjust imprisonment in united states prisons of antonio guerrero, fernando gonzález, gerardo hernandez, ramón labañino and rené gonzález, cuban patriots who acted solely to prevent their country from becoming a victim of terrorist acts promoted and carried out by organizations based in miami. it is recalled that the united nations working group on the five cuban nationals detained in the united states of america considers that the trial to which they were subject was not conducted in an atmosphere of objectivity and impartiality, and the court of appeal of the 11th instance, atlanta circuit, unanimously decided to annul the trial held in miami. these eight years have been marked by illegality, unacceptable punishments, pressure and blackmail, and the violation of human rights, for example by the fact that the united states administration did not allow the wives of rené gonzález and gerardo hernandez to visit. mr president, justice must be done by putting an end to this cruel and inhumane situation by releasing these five cuban patriots and overturning their convictions.
in portugal, i will also give the portuguese example, anyone who buys a new car pays an extraordinarily high registration tax to the state. sometimes it comes to almost half the final cost of the car and on top of that tax you still pay vat and then over the years you pay a traffic tax that is minimal. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but that is how it has been and will continue to be because the state, the portuguese state in this case, likes to charge in advance, like everyone else, by the way. if i disclose these facts, as other colleagues have done, it is because they have to do with what we are discussing here. this proposal for a directive, which is precisely intended to abolish the so-called registration tax in the countries of the european union and replace it with an annual traffic tax, the amount of which will take account of carbon dioxide emissions, is fairer, more logical and more environmentally and economically friendly. this is the right system, because it makes the price of vehicles more affordable, especially for the middle and lower classes, and allows the renewal of the car fleet, both from the environmental and road safety points of view. contrary to what some may think, raising the price of cars through taxation is not always environmentally friendly. in my country, for example, because new, more environmentally efficient cars are expensive, people buy used cars from other countries that are less safe and more polluting. on the contrary, with a road tax defined as the proposal for a directive advocates, the tax burden on motor vehicles would not only be compulsory to follow the useful life of vehicles, but would also prevent citizens who settle in more than one country of the union from having to pay a double tax, and would contribute to more transparent rules of the internal market by allowing a true comparison of vehicle prices in the various member states. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that increasing the cost of cars does not reduce the number of vehicles on the road, it only makes the quality of the cars we drive worse. a fair and balanced road tax is always better than an exaggerated tuition tax, for the environment, for the economy and for the citizens. i only hope that the governments of the member states will see it that way in due course.
as you know, in countries with a coastline, pollution at sea knows no borders and ships do not usually choose where they sink. if there are matters where national egoism can only cause harm, this is certainly one of them. economic zones can and should remain exclusive, but the sea is a common good and when there is an environmental tragedy it affects us all. it makes perfect sense, therefore, that we should adopt a community approach to tackling the risks of marine pollution. as our colleague luis de grandes pascual's report rightly argues, and i take the opportunity to welcome it, we need a sustained and long-term financial framework to ensure that the member states can prevent and use the up-to-date and appropriate technical means to protect our coasts from spills such as those which have occurred in the recent past, and, equally important, to enable those responsible for environmental crimes to be punished. mr president, oil spills are always harmful and sometimes even criminal, but financial spills can be so too. throwing money overboard is not in itself a solution. that is why i support the multiannual financing model proposed here and, above all, its transparent and effective use. the eur 154 million allocated to the european maritime safety agency for the period 2007-2013 is expected to enable the implementation of the action plan against marine pollution, the establishment of a pool of specialised reserve vessels to act in the four priority areas and the creation of a satellite imaging service centre to support the activities of the member states and the european commission in combating shipwrecks, among other tasks in the fight against pollution. it is a project which, with the amendments proposed by the committee on transport and others, deserves our full support, even if it does not forget the member states' shared responsibility in this joint effort. we are not living today, mr president, in the mare nostrum of which the romans spoke, but we are living in a time of the sea which belongs to everyone and is a matter of global and shared responsibility. by adopting this resolution, we, the european parliament, are fulfilling our part of that responsibility.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the commission statement on forest fires and floods.
the tragedy of forest fires, which year after year is affecting the countries of southern europe, particularly portugal and spain, cannot continue. it is time to replace lamentation with concrete measures to prevent the summer from turning into a hell of destruction of forests and protected landscapes, of the lives and property of thousands of people who courageously persist in living in rural areas. the situation in portugal in august was particularly serious, with many tens of thousands of hectares of forest burned, several people killed and the destruction of an important environmental heritage, notably in the peneda-gerês national park and the serras d'aire and candeeiros natural park, as well as enormous material damage. in early september the scourge of fires continues. so, in addition to solidarity with the affected populations, the need for urgent support for herders and farmers who have lost their pastures for livestock, as in the serra de soajo, and the immediate removal of burnt wood as fair payment to farmers, small forest owners and shared plots, it is essential to insist on prevention by strengthening financial, technical and human resources, including support for those involved in firefighting operations and reforestation of burnt areas, in particular protected areas, for which extraordinary support should be granted to portugal from the european solidarity fund to all the most affected areas and populations. the adoption of effective public policies to strengthen the prevention of reforestation and forestry management must not be delayed any longer, and the cap must be changed so that family farming is supported in such a way as to guarantee farmers a decent living, in particular through guaranteed production prices, and that the abandonment of rural areas, which will be aggravated by the withdrawal of production aid, does not continue.
at the moment i am speaking to you, the fire in the far north of portugal has not yet been completely extinguished, and it has struck my country's largest natural park for the second time this year, while eight other large fires are still burning in other regions. the drama of fires continues to affect several member states this year, with spain seemingly the hardest hit at the moment, with countless human tragedies, including loss of life and economic and environmental damage that is impossible to account for. i therefore express my solidarity and my sorrow to all colleagues in all the affected states, and in particular to my spanish colleagues, remembering those who have lost their lives in this hell that is currently afflicting us and paying tribute to all those, professional and non-professional, who have made their effort to the limits of human resistance to minimize the effects of the fires. we all know that the problem of forest fires and other disasters cannot be solved overnight, especially when they are often due to complex combinations of causes, from climate to human, from negligence to crime, but we also know that their scale and their effects can be reduced if we give them the political priority they deserve. as you will recall, parliament has recently devoted a great deal of attention, resources and will to better understanding these phenomena, identifying the causes and proposing short, medium and long-term solutions to reverse this absolutely unacceptable situation. several committees heard researchers and technicians, contacted public authorities and the public and made proposals and recommendations to the commission and the council, which were widely welcomed by the political groups in this parliament last may. i myself was rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, which had the opportunity to formulate some three dozen proposals for the adoption of a european strategy which, by creating new measures and their coherent articulation with various existing policy and financial instruments, could lead to the intended objectives of reducing to a minimum the consequences of natural disasters. it would be demagogic to demand that all of them have been implemented since may, but it is urgent - and it is becoming increasingly urgent - that we move from reports to concrete action. the political debate is over and the necessary political solutions are known and agreed. the tragedy of this summer has only served as a dramatic reminder that we must act even more quickly so that next year we do not simply express mutual wishes of solidarity in the wake of a new tragedy.
every year fires consume a significant part of europe's forests. this year, unfortunately, was no exception. with climate change and global warming, the future doesn't look any better. natural disasters cannot be avoided, but they must be prevented at an early stage by complying with the kyoto protocol and by defining an appropriate forestry policy. in portugal, 420,000 hectares were burned in 2003 and 320,000 in 2005. this year, by the end of august, 59,000 hectares had burned, which is a lot, even because there were protected areas burned and victims to mourn. but it is also fair to acknowledge that a great deal of effort and investment has been made in prevention and immediate action, a permanent surveillance system has been set up involving the security forces, the armed forces and many young people, firefighting helicopter brigades have been set up in the first minutes after the ignition, and there have been days when more than 500 fires have been identified. the commission has also made a major investment in training firefighters and in the creation of professional firefighting units, whose dedication and efforts i would like to commend. in portugal and other countries great efforts have been made, but more needs to be done and the european commission must also adopt the proposals which have been put forward by the european parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. other i participated in the european parliament's election observation mission to the democratic republic of congo. i visited more than forty polling stations in different districts of kinshasa and had the privilege of observing the counting of votes and the work of one of these polling stations in dima, just one of the more than 250,000 spread throughout the country. i have admired the patient dedication of the congolese men and women, members of the polling stations and voters. they all told me, with poignant seriousness, that their commitment and vigilance in carrying out the electoral tasks would depend on the authenticity of the people's choice, of the more than 25 million voters who were registered in a logistical operation of epic proportions, and that on this choice would depend the peace, democracy and development of their country. this operation, and indeed the whole transition process in the drc since 2003, could not have come to this without the european union. the elections should thus be a source of pride for the congolese people, but also for europe, which financed 80% of the presidential and legislative elections, with the european commission contributing €165 million. the european union's involvement in the democratic republic of the congo since the end of the terrible war that devastated the country has been the best example of the application of the european security doctrine on the ground: humanitarian and development aid, technical support for the demobilization and disarmament of militias, support for the political process and instruments of european security and defence policy, all complementary means used in a coherent way to achieve a single end - a democratic, peaceful and prosperous congo, controlling its resources in favour of the people. as for eufor, the european military force which, after the vote on 30 july, played a decisive role in calming the forces of the presidential candidates, kabila and bemba, consideration should be given now to extending its mandate until the new government takes office at the end of january, in order to ensure that the electoral process is successfully completed. the biggest mistake would be to leave the job half-done. because the transition process is still on the knife edge. the fighting in august in the capital between the presidential guard and bemba's militias shows that the use of armed violence remains an option for the main political actors. they also pointed to what may have been the greatest and most dangerous failure in the transition process: the inability to forge a unified national army. according to the international crisis group, only 50% of the work on integrating the armed forces has been done. it is not only azarias ruberwa and jean-pierre bemba who still maintain private armies. president kabila himself has resisted subjecting his presidential guard to the brassage process and it was his forces that sparked the armed clashes last august. whatever the outcome of the elections, the priority of the international community must be to demobilize the militias and help to create a single congolese army which is seen by the congolese as a factor of stability and democratic authority. but at this point it is not the congolese or european arms that will guarantee the final success of the electoral process. this depends above all on congolese men and women, such as the independent candidate for parliament, eve bazaiba masudi, a member of the ngo kafko, which is made up of women who are courageously fighting for peace, democracy and human rights, in close coordination with manuc. eve bazaiba masudi and other women representatives of congolese civil society are trying to mediate and hold warlords to account. they deserve the support of the european union and i trust that the delegation of the european commission and the committee headed by general morillon, whom i commend for the excellent work they have done so far, will be able to support these bearers of peace and dialogue.
it is of the utmost importance that this report by our colleague mrs gröner, whom i commend, should be adopted. the contribution that daphne can make to preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women and to protecting victims is highlighted and needs to be strengthened by continuing the previous daphne programmes and broadening the scope of their application. we cannot continue to tolerate violence against women, the suffering it entails and the death it often leads to. this is a struggle which requires continuous effort and persistent intervention and which cannot and should not be confused with other actions. the uncompromising defence of women's rights implies the autonomy of the daphne iii programme, as proposed, and increased funding for greater intervention in the various aspects of violence, whether physical, sexual or psychological, in particular that associated with trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, or domestic violence, including the threat of such acts, and of which women, young people and children are particularly victims. prevention must be promoted through strong awareness-raising campaigns, as exemplified by the establishment of the european year against violence against women, but action must also be taken to support victims. the establishment of clear and credible targets for the effective reduction of violence implies greater intervention by public policies and therefore also more financial support to organisations engaged in this fight. hence the reinforcement we propose and hope will be approved.
in writing. although respect for the official languages of each member state is enshrined in the treaties, attempts are increasing to restrict the number of working languages at eu level, always favouring the languages of the most populous countries. the recent example is the 'european language proficiency indicator' which includes only english, french, german, spanish and italian. although it considers 'multilingualism' to be a 'key component' of the eu, this report is imbued with a budgetary constraint which, through administrative arguments, could call into question this right enshrined in the treaties. we therefore reiterate our firm rejection of any attempt to limit the use of any official (and working) language in the eu on the grounds that interpretation costs are high. we also criticise the criteria for determining the languages used during eu-acp parliamentary assemblies, which make the use of portuguese unfeasible in a discriminatory way. we are also opposed to the reduction in the number of interpreters in parliament, the commission and the european council, the creation of a single interpreting service and the attack on the rights of these professionals in terms of contractual obligations, working hours and working conditions, all under the pretext of budget cuts.
in writing. this report provides an overview of the work of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, in developing actions to improve maritime safety and prevent pollution caused by ships in the waters of the various eu countries. this action is defined as supplementary to and in support of the action taken by the various coastal countries in combating and preventing marine pollution, in particular by contributing to improving its early detection, including the identification of those responsible. the prevention and combating of marine pollution will be all the more effective if the various coastal countries are better equipped with the means - particularly public ones - to allow appropriate, rapid and effective action. apart from other important aspects which should be assessed, this report proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include not only situations of marine pollution caused by hydrocarbons but also all types of pollution caused by ships, including harmful liquid substances, which we consider to be positive. the report also points to what it calls the 'minimum funding' of the agency, which, if not respected, would jeopardise - we add, even more so - the achievement of the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. the proposal now voted on is particularly important in view of the recent ecological disasters caused by spills from ships. the measures proposed in the report seem to me to be an appropriate way of improving the functioning of the european maritime safety agency by introducing a new long-term vision enabled by the budget set for a seven-year period (2007-2013) and providing for the hiring of vessels immediately available for the fight against spills. the creation of a new imaging centre, proposed by the european parliament, is also very important in order to support actions to identify illegal spills and discharges, allowing for faster and more efficient intervention. this proposal is of particular importance for portugal, which has a large exclusive economic zone, crossed by hundreds of ships every day, and a history of accidental spills and ecological disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lissy gröner report on the fight against violence (daphne) (2007/2013), as it is necessary to continue this successful project in the fight against violence which continues to affect children, young people and women in europe and the world, and in the defence of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the prevention and combating of violence against children, young people and women, and the protection of victims and groups at risk (daphne iii) deserve a separate programme. it is necessary to inform and raise awareness among citizens about the problem of violence by providing this programme with the necessary mechanisms, in close cooperation with the various ngos which have a major role in society in this area, in particular through the promotion of the european year against violence against women in 2007.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of our amendment to strengthen the daphne programme. with the approval of this proposal by our group, which i support, the budget for the implementation of this instrument will be increased to eur 125 million for the period 2007-2013, instead of the eur 116.85 million provided for in the gröner report, which the rapporteur proposed to be increased to eur 120 million, although she also voted in favour of our proposal, which allowed it to be adopted. the conditions are thus better for daphne iii to contribute to the prevention and combating of violence against children, young people and women and to the protection of victims. zero tolerance for violence must involve increased political commitment, continued effort and persistent intervention in all member states.
in writing. the commission's strategy to harmonise motor vehicle taxes dates from 2002. the main idea is to abolish the car registration tax the ia in portugal - and to gradually replace it with an increase in the traffic tax the stamp duty, with a differentiation of value based on co2 emissions. the aim is to penalise the use of cars and to promote free movement within the internal market by promoting the sale and replacement of used cars. we agree on the need to create special measures for citizens who move between member states of the european union, but we disagree on the proposed tax harmonization. first, the federal question. this harmonization calls into question the fiscal sovereignty of the member states and their transport policy options. on the other hand, the co2 differentiation does not take account of the engine capacity and the value of the car, which, together with the penalty for driving, has a regressive and penalising effect on commercial cars. finally, this strategy penalizes the value of used cars and increased competition could have economic and social consequences. we cannot therefore accept the objectives of this directive.
the european union as we know it today was born on the basis of an ideal, the main aim of which was to achieve and preserve peace. in half a century europe has become a world reference for peace, democracy, freedom, solidarity, prosperity and development. peace, the first great objective of european integration, has been largely achieved to the extent that today, because we have lived in peace for more than six decades, we have become so accustomed to living in peace that we do not realise the real value of this great achievement. we are talking about a peace based on freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and when we compare the european social model with other situations, we cannot ignore, for example, the great deception of the communist totalitarian experiments that for decades deprived many europeans of the right to freedom, which today has been happily regained for a large number of them. the brutal reality of islamic fundamentalism today is another example of the clear departure from the essential values on which the european social model is based. this report deals mainly with values. the way in which these values are applied varies from country to country, and that is why we have said that the european social model, being a unity based on values, is different in its ways of application. globalisation, technological development and demographic change are the main factors that have put the social protection systems of the different european states in difficulty, although to a different degree from one state to another. the european social model will survive if we act in time or it will die if we do not. we know that a scenario of weak economic growth makes any structural reforms unworkable from the outset. that is why we have placed great emphasis in the report on the implementation by the member states of the lisbon strategy and the need to complete the internal market. greater labour market flexibility, lifelong learning, longer working life, work-life balance, changing sources of funding, combating poverty and social exclusion are all considered as priorities in the reforms to be undertaken. in the area of competitiveness, we recommend that a great deal of attention be paid to small and mediumsized enterprises and innovation. the general outlines of the reforms which need to be carried out and which are outlined in the report we are presenting reflect a reformist thinking which is firmly rooted in the values which were at the basis of the creation of the european social model, values which, as framing elements of all political action, are today more precise than ever. it is therefore important for us that this parliament should state that the reforms which need to be carried out in the various social protection systems must in no way affect the essential values on which the european social model is based. the european parliament's decision on the content of this report goes beyond the union itself because it is a political statement in defence of values which, while important for europe, are also important for the world. in this connection, i would simply like to quote the international labour organisation, which explicitly referred to the european social model as a possible source of inspiration for the new emerging powers. i would like to dedicate a final word to my colleague and co-rapporteur, mr proinsias de rossa, for the great cooperation with which he distinguished me and which has enabled me to develop a work which has been both stimulating and enjoyable to me.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, what we are discussing here today is of the utmost importance given the seriousness of what is at stake, the so-called 'european social model', that is to say, the set of economic, social and labour rights which have been the conquest of workers and the population for decades and which the european commission and this report do not take into account. on the contrary, i did. underlying this is the idea that social security systems undermine economic performance and are not sustainable in the face of the demographic challenges of globalisation and global competition, insisting on deep structural reforms that in practice involve the dismantling of public social security systems, neglecting what has been the main instrument in defending social inclusion, combating poverty, inequalities in income distribution and sharing, job insecurity and unemployment, as well as promoting the dignity of those who work. the epp and pse rapporteurs therefore intend to continue the policy of making concessions to the big european employers, to the interests of economic and financial groups, opening up new business areas and placing a large amount of money in pension systems in the interests of private profitability, following the increasingly neoliberal path of the so-called 'lisbon strategy' and the 'stability pact'. but that is not what the more than 72 million people living in poverty and the more than 18 million unemployed expect. therefore, a change in these policies is necessary. that is what we are aiming at with the proposals we have put forward, which we hope will be adopted.
it must be recognized that the european social model was a key instrument in the reconstruction of democratic europe in the post-war period and that its success has benefited many millions of people. but it must also be recognised that, having been established in a context of overpopulation and relative commercial and industrial stagnation, it lacks adjustment to a time of sharp population decline, a highly competitive global economy and constant demand for adaptability of resources. this need for reform is all the more necessary as relatively new factors of social unrest such as the unsustainability of pension schemes, longterm unemployment, youth unemployment and skilled unemployment are increasing. the main challenge in this area is to reduce the role of the state and redefine its role, to open up the economy more and to encourage private initiative, creativity, competitiveness and investment. despite the need to be flexible and to consider the reduction for the future of some rights which previous generations took for granted, i also think it is essential to be cautious and to defend the situations of the most fragile and vulnerable.
madam president, the question i would like to ask following the commissioner's reply is whether you do not think it is a gross mistake to make such a decision based solely on statistics collected by the hunters themselves and whether it would not be better if the commission had a more realistic view of the truth, taking into account what the maltese press and the birdwatchers' community say.
in writing. this report on the conclusion of the partnership agreement between the union of the comoros and the european community deserves my vote in favour. this agreement is part of the new partnership approach that the eu intends to implement in the external dimension of its common fisheries policy, thus providing for the development and improvement of fishing conditions in the union of the comoros, which should use part of the eu budget to secure new infrastructure and better technologies capable of ensuring a sustainable management of its fisheries resources. the eu, for its part, guarantees fishing opportunities in one more third country that ensure the maintenance and operability of its long-distance fishing fleet. the european parliament is only now being asked to give its opinion on the legislative proposal for this agreement, the protocol to which it is attached having already been approved by the same parliament in october 2005 under a separate procedure.
in writing. in the light of the council conclusions of july 2004 on the new approach to international fisheries agreements, it is necessary to recover formulas that have become obsolete, such as the inexplicable disappearance of the regime of joint ventures that had been so successful in developing the fisheries economies of several countries. it is therefore essential to adapt the current agreements to the philosophy adopted and embodied in the 2004 fisheries council conclusions. greater involvement of the authorities of third countries in procedures for monitoring their resources with increased environmental concerns is one of the points i consider to be fundamental to the success of these new agreements. i therefore believe that this report should be voted in favour of in order to ensure that the principles enshrined in the cfp are respected.
in writing. we regret that once again those who talk so much about a decent european social model have in fact adopted a report which in reality paves the way for and covers the dismantling, already under way in several member states, of high social standards and of the right of workers and the population to a public, universal and high-quality social security system, as well as universal access to high-quality public services, particularly in the fields of health, education and housing. we regret the rejection of our amendments, particularly those expressing our deep conviction that a state with a sound social protection system, based on high environmental, social and labour standards, with progressive taxation and redistribution of income and wealth generated is not detrimental to good economic performance. we also find it unfortunate that the proposal in which we advocated a macroeconomic framework which supports sustainable development, with stronger and environmentally compatible domestic demand and full employment, in conditions which ensure economic and social cohesion, has been rejected. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. the european social model needs to be reformed. but how can we reform something that is almost a 'symbol' of europe today? no fear of it. we must become even more competitive and ensure that the quality of life of our citizens is improved. so we can't hesitate to make decisions to improve the lives of our citizens. i am sure that one of the most effective measures will be the full completion of the internal market. we must comply with lisbon to ensure the economic coordination measures, employment and social protection policies that will ensure economic growth, increased competitiveness and the creation of more and better jobs in a sustainable way. so we still have a lot to do. here and in our capitals. it is not enough to announce reforms and promise more jobs. it's not enough to talk. the targets for employment and for education and training must be met. a new culture of information exchange, of maximising the efficiency of enterprises and training, and of making skilled labour available, is needed if we are to finally claim the social values of solidarity and social justice in europe.
in writing. i fully support the objectives set by the commission, in particular the action plan in priority areas such as conservation policy and the control of fishing activities. points such as the frontloading (prior and timely consultation) of institutions directly or indirectly involved in fisheries resource assessments, namely consultation of the regional advisory councils and the advisory committee on fisheries and aquaculture; the use of more frequent impact assessments of potential measures to be implemented and the revision of the legal structure of existing provisions in order to better clarify the legislative texts, enhance their readability, coherence and comprehensibility by removing obsolete provisions are some of the key points of this proposal which i consider to be fundamental to adapting the cfp to the current reality of fisheries in the eu. i would also like to reiterate the need for the commission to extend its process of improving procedures to the partnership agreements, in particular the process of monitoring, monitoring and enforcing them. this proposal deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. improvement and simplification of legislation is necessary in view of the multiplicity and legibility of community legislation on the common fisheries policy. simplification of procedures, precise wording that is understandable to all parties involved, sufficient time between the adoption and implementation of legislation and the assessment of its economic, social and environmental impacts are issues that need to be clearly defined in the interests of transparency and fairness in the implementation of legislation. however, this procedure cannot be used as a pretext for attempting to subvert what is regulated, and it must be ensured that not only national parliaments and the european parliament but also the sector and its representative organisations, in particular the workers, are monitored. acceptance of the simplification process does not imply agreement on the content of the common fisheries policy, to which we have deep objections. for example, the rapporteur's defence of a community inspection system, which we oppose, because we consider that this is a competence of the member states, arising from the sovereignty over their exclusive economic zone. the rapporteur's caution in extending the principle that member states may adopt conservation and resource management measures in their waters beyond 12 nautical miles is also not understood.
in writing. the importance of simplifying the rules governing the common fisheries policy is undeniable and the measures set out in this proposal, which aim to deal with the lack of clarity of the existing texts by concentrating efforts on a simpler wording, allowing the parties concerned to come closer together and to identify the fisheries sector more closely with the legislation, are to be welcomed. despite the numerous appeals made, the difficulties experienced by fishermen in knowing and understanding the common fisheries policy are still evident. it must be made not only perceptible but also feasible. i therefore think it is useful to gradually adapt to new technologies on board fishing vessels and to commit community aid to specific development and training in this area. these measures could create benefits for the fishing community and consumers. i also think that the procedures for managing fishing licences outside community waters need to be clarified.
welcome to the real world! if something is changing in europe's position, it is because there was a people who knew how to resist. my respect and applause to lebanon. resolution 1701 came late and without distinguishing between aggressor and aggressed, but it achieved a ceasefire and is giving peace a chance. the un mission is the appropriate one, no more, no less. support reconstruction, make it difficult for the second round of the war to take place, give time for dialogue between lebanese, because that is where - and only there - the problems of the country's defence must be solved. there are other emergencies. in palestine the european blockade has sent the wrong signal to washington and tel aviv and punishes a people for believing in democracy. in tehran, ultimatums and threats only accelerate the nuclear arms race. it's time to restore peace to the middle east. only the weapon of politics can defeat the policy of weapons.
whether we like it or not, the time has come for the european union in international politics, and we must first of all congratulate the finnish presidency, the commissioner and the commission for having made, or allowed, this to happen. it is an opportunity but it is also a responsibility. we should be aware that all the ingredients are in place for something to go wrong: a mandate full of ambiguity from the start, a hezbollah that does not disarm, israel that persists in retaliating, insecurity on the israeli-palestinian borders and the unreliability of syria and iran. nevertheless, i understand that it was a good decision for us to take on these responsibilities. now, at the rear, we too must ensure that the conditions are right for the mission to be successful. we must avoid disagreements within the european union and we must act quickly if the situation changes. i think an informal cell between the commission, the council and parliament could help. however, we must above all develop a political framework in parallel. the proposal from the international conference seems to me to be very well-balanced, since the unifil mission is a necessary, though not a sufficient, condition. finally, we must mobilise more human and financial resources because the process will be long. but we have a duty to ensure that those who represent us will succeed. it's up to us, too.
mr president, in 2005 we celebrated ten years of the barcelona process, a relatively long process in the attempt to build a solid bridge to the other side of the mediterranean. i have already given you an optimistic view of its ambitions and of the whole process, and of the path of confidence that has been traveled so far. however, as a member of this parliament, as a supporter of the european construction and as an uncompromising complier of international law, i have had some difficulty in observing, unperturbed and calm, how the majority of the european institutions have followed the events that have come knocking at our door this summer. if lebanon was in june one of the most promising democracies in the mediterranean in political and economic terms, if it had been until then, and was able to continue to be, one of the largest recipients of european union funds in support of its reconstruction and development, today this lebanon has to start from scratch, today in lebanon everything has to be done again, everything has to be rebuilt, at least what the euro and concrete can do again and rebuild. but couldn't we have done something before? when we saw the israeli-palestinian conflict go to extremes, shouldn't we have intervened quickly? when we saw the disallowance of the various international observers to the elections in palestine, with the successive violations of diplomatic and parliamentary immunity, with the arrests of legitimately elected parliamentarians and ministers, should we not have intervened? is it not also our relative indifference at the time and the inadequate response we gave that is responsible for all this? i am sure that europe has not taken all the steps it could to avoid this situation and has not acted in such a way that its platform for action is real. we cannot make the same mistakes again and after today's debate that is absolutely clear to all the speakers. the role of the european union in this process is irreplaceable and demonstrates once again that the political strength of the european union is crucial for stability and balance in the world.
i have received six motions for resolutions. see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
no one can remain indifferent to the new war unleashed by israel against lebanon, which has been bombed for 34 days, with the support of the us and the passivity of the council of the european union, resulting in the acknowledged deaths of 1,084 civilians in lebanon and 41 in israel, thousands of wounded and the forced displacement of about a quarter of the lebanese population, as well as the destruction of essential infrastructure such as airports, ports, power stations and a giant black tide. according to the undp, these bombings destroyed 15,000 homes and 78 bridges, damaged 630 km of roads and caused costs of at least $15 billion for lebanon, and targeted civilian populations in a gross violation of international humanitarian law. our condemnation of this war must also mean demanding that israel pay the costs of rebuilding lebanon, that the occupation of the territories of palestine, lebanon and syria be ended, that the blockade of lebanon and gaza be lifted, that palestinian ministers and parliamentarians be released immediately and that negotiations be held for the exchange of prisoners held by israel in exchange for the israeli soldiers held. there can be no lasting peace in the middle east unless the sovereignty of palestine, lebanon and syria is respected.
at the root of the brutal aggressions against palestine and lebanon is the us project of domination of the middle east, which promotes interference and disregards sovereignty and international law, with the ambition of taking control of the geostrategic and the vast energy resources of this region. in a context of contradictions, concertation has prevailed between the major powers of the eu and the us, see the process of drafting resolution 1701. the eu has never condemned israeli aggression and demanded a ceasefire or respect for international law. reality cannot be circumvented by turning the victim into the aggressor and the aggressor into the victim. it is israel that illegally occupies arab territories, that does not respect numerous un resolutions and that actively prevents the creation of an independent and sovereign palestinian state through a policy of state terrorism. peace in this region requires israel's withdrawal from all the occupied arab territories, the dismantling of the settlements and the wall, the release of political prisoners, the return of refugees, and the creation of an independent and sovereign palestinian state with its capital in east jerusalem. we are also calling for all states to guarantee their sovereignty and security, and for the demilitarisation and denuclearisation of this region.
the question period is now over (b6-0325/2006). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr claude moraes (h-0595/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the commission's proposal for a directive what are the finnish presidency's plans for moving forward with the revision of the working time directive (com (2002) 0149 final) and the directive on temporary agency workers (directive amending directive 2003/88/ec) (oj l 299, 18.11.2003, p. 9)? does the council intend to make efforts to achieve progress in this respect during its six-month term of office?
question no 2 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0598/06) subject: implementation of the objectives of the european youth pact how does the finnish presidency propose to support the commitments made by the governments of the member states with the adoption of the european youth pact to increase the employment rate of young people?
question no 3 by manuel medina ortega (h-0600/06) subject: illegal immigration: measures adopted by the european council in june on the basis of the decisions of the european council of 15 and 16 june, what concrete measures has the council taken or intends to take to limit illegal immigration of third country nationals and to repatriate them to their countries of origin?
question no 4 by elizabeth lynne (h-0602/06) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: treatment of the elderly despite the toronto declaration adopted by the world health organisation and the united nations reference to the ill-treatment of the elderly in the framework of the international plan of action on ageing adopted in madrid, member states have implemented legislation on the issue of domestic violence, but without specific reference to the protection of vulnerable elderly people. the private healthcare sector, for example, is not sufficiently covered by the legal framework currently in force in a large number of member states. this is the case in the united kingdom, where the human rights act does not apply to people receiving privately funded care. can the council urge the member states to close these legislative gaps and to respect the fundamental rights of their older citizens?
question no 5 by mrs angelilli (h-0607/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: request for judicial cooperation with the united states in march 2005, nicola calipari, an italian sismi (italian military intelligence) officer, was killed at a us checkpoint in baghdad during the release of an italian hostage. despite requests from the italian government, the us department of justice stated that it would not provide any information beyond that contained in the report of the "multi-national corps - iraq". however, the information contained in the report in question was considered insufficient and incomplete by the highest italian authorities and, above all, by the italian judiciary, which considers that maximum cooperation with the us authorities is essential. does the council intend to deal with this matter within the framework of its cfsp powers in order to clarify what has happened?
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-0608/06) subject: rule of law in russia how does the presidency of the council assess the current state of democracy and the rule of law in russia, in particular as regards freedom of the media, the situation of non-governmental organisations, the independence of the judiciary and the conditions of prisoners, including former yukos managers platon lebedev and mikhail chodorkovsky? question no 7 by mr horáček (h-0614/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the situation in russia does the presidency of the council consider that a strategic partnership between the eu and russia is compatible with russia's disregard for european values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, such as the contempt for freedom of the press, the restrictions imposed on civil society by the ngo law, the human rights violations in chechnya and the conditions of detention of platon lebedew and michail chodorkowski?
question no 8 by marian harkin (h-0611/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: research on stem cells can the council clarify the legal situation resulting from the european parliament's vote of 15 june allowing embryonic stem cell research in the eu? can an organisation established in any member state apply for eu funding for embryonic stem cell research, even if such research is illegal in the member state where it is intended to be carried out?
question no 9 by johan van hecke (h-0612/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: closure of the guantanamo prison at the annual summit between eu and us leaders in vienna, president bush said he wanted to end the controversial guantanamo detention facility but that he expected a decision by the us supreme court on the location of the prisoners' trials. the question is also how the various countries will be able to recover their prisoners. some will have to be tried in the united states if there is no guarantee that they will receive a fair trial in their countries of origin. according to president bush, there are still about 400 prisoners at guantanamo bay. does the council know how many european citizens are imprisoned in guantanamo? could not these citizens be quickly repatriated to be tried in europe, where there are the maximum guarantees of a fair trial, as president bush himself has suggested?
question no 10 by sarah ludford (h-0617/06) subject: framework decision on racism and xenophobia will the finnish presidency renew its efforts to reach agreement in the council on a framework decision on combating racial and religious hatred, proposed by the commission in 2001 and strongly supported by parliament? will the finnish presidency encourage the commission to also put forward a proposal to combat homophobic hate crime?
question no 11 by inger segelström (h-0618/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights of women in iran on monday, june 12, about a hundred iranian women's rights activists held a demonstration in tehran, demanding changes to laws that discriminate against women in the country. the demonstration was brutally repressed by the police, with 70 protesters arrested. what political condemnation and concrete action does the council intend to take in the context of bilateral contacts in the light of the iranian regime's violent attacks on women's rights activists and the persistent violations of their human rights in iran?
question no 12 by robert evans (h-0622/06) subject: future enlargement of the eu does the council not consider that the decision of some member states to insist on holding a referendum before any future enlargement constitutes a form of protectionism, deliberately aimed at preventing certain countries from joining the european union?
question no 13 by brian crowley (h-0631/06) subject: fight against international terrorism will the european council state what measures it has implemented this year at eu level to combat international terrorism and whether it intends to present further eu initiatives in this area of policy in the near future?
as the authors are not present, questions 14, 15, 16 and 18 are now obsolete. question no 17 has been withdrawn. question no 19 by esko seppänen (h-0645/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: watching shifts for combat forces as the eu prepares to operate with combat forces, combat units from various countries will be called in to take turns on watch. is there any agreement between member states on the sharing of costs if a combat unit is deployed during its watch for military action and has the council reached agreement on what to do if a member of a country's watch unit does not wish to participate in an operation decided on in the eu framework?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
there are no perfect reports and mr belder's report is no exception, but it contains important and relevant elements: firstly, it comprehensively covers the human rights situation and the political, economic, social, labour and environmental contradictions in china, which are particularly felt by minorities such as the tibetans and the uyghurs. amnesty international has just sent a document to the finnish presidency on the eu-china summit describing the human rights situation in that country and calling the little progress made unsatisfactory: forced labour camps, internet controls, the death penalty and lack of religious freedom are just some of the sad facts. secondly, the belder report stresses the importance of china taking its responsibilities as a permanent member of the un security council seriously. in the european union we do not accept the threatening intentions that beijing has occasionally had towards taiwan. after all, china knows that it can get what it wants by peaceful means, as in hong kong and macau, especially in its relationship with african countries. beijing has not committed itself to sustainable development, democratization and peace. on the contrary, china is one of the main arms exporters to sudan, from which it also imports oil and where the regime is preparing for another bloody offensive in darfur. finally, and above all, this report reminds us of the tiananmen massacre and the importance of maintaining an arms embargo on a regime that refuses to deal with its own past and that still keeps people imprisoned and missing without account being taken of their families. we are not naive. we know very well that european countries, like the united states and others, have never stopped selling military technology or technology for military use to china, despite the arms embargo. clear proof of the symbolic political importance of this embargo is beijing's eagerness to see it lifted at all costs. i support the maximum interaction between the european union and beijing at all levels and in all areas: economic, political, commercial, cultural, etc., but i also support a language of truth. china deserves no less, and so the embargo is a useful tool as long as china does not take responsibility for what happened in those fateful days of june 1989 and as long as it does not stop exporting arms and supporting regimes that massacre and oppress their people, whether in sudan or myanmar. it is imperative that the european union maintain this embargo, especially as long as the european union does not make its code of conduct legally binding. we owe it to the european union, to our values, and we owe it to the thousands of chinese citizens who are now living better economically but who are increasingly yearning for freedom and democracy.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work. a first question raised by this report is whether there is really a need for eco-labelling of fishery products and whether it can actually contribute to adding value to the product and to the consumer. the rapporteur stresses that, according to regulation (ec) no 2371/2002, all fishing activities in the european union must by definition be sustainable insofar as they must comply with community standards, and therefore all fish caught on the basis of these standards will naturally be eco-labelled. that said, any ecological labelling of fish caught based on any other criteria going beyond what is provided for in the existing legislation in the catch sector could lead to a discriminatory situation between producers, and we believe that ecological labelling would make sense, as it does for agriculture, in the case of aquaculture and processed products, where environmental and food safety problems can be put in the right place, as well as in relation to imported products in general, which would have to comply with the general community regulation on fishery products. another question is whether such a label at community level would have advantages over the diversity of labels on the market, as has already been pointed out, since they are confusing to consumers and are often the result of a mere marketing strategy of companies without any public certification. in this respect, we believe that a community-wide label would be complex, bureaucratic and too restrictive for fisheries organisations and member states. the need is to create a public certification framework with direct involvement of the member states' authorities. this is the most appropriate way of defining rules where there is a legislative vacuum in this area. as regards the added value that may result from this type of labelling, we feel that it is necessary to ensure that it is distributed throughout the value chain in such a way as to benefit the efforts and investments of producers without penalising consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, mrs carmen fraga estévez, on her excellent report and say that the growing interest in safe, quality food products and the need to preserve marine ecosystems, as well as the recent proliferation of products with an eco-label, require an urgent community approach to the so-called eco-labelling. the fact that a number of high-quality eco-labelling programmes are emerging worldwide, and i will give an example of one in my country, the popa, which certifies tuna caught in the autonomous region of the azores, means that not all eco-labelling schemes are primarily aimed at protecting the biological heritage of our oceans, and that there are therefore diffuse economic interests which sometimes hide behind this type of labelling, which is why, in order to protect the environment and consumers, we must be extremely careful and assume our responsibilities as policy-makers. of the various proposals put forward by the commission in this communication, i believe that the one which could serve the interests concerned is the one concerning the establishment of minimum requirements for optional eco-labelling programmes. in this way, and on the basis of these minimum requirements, which have been established in advance, eco-labelling programmes can be developed freely in a flexible and optional way through public or private initiatives, but within a generic regulatory framework. the european union, as a public body, should define these minimum requirements, because only then will it be possible to defend the general interest and the prerogatives enshrined in the common fisheries policy. finally, i would like to emphasize that this is a task which we must carry out both within the union and in our trade relations with the rest of the world, so that transparency, credibility and fairness are guaranteed, especially since eco-labelling will increasingly be a way of differentiating products, which will also have an impact on competitiveness.
i also share the congratulations which have been sent to our rapporteur from the committee on fisheries, and also to the rapporteur for the opinion which has been sent to us by the committee on the environment. i find this debate extremely interesting and i think our rapporteur is quite right when she points out the lack of rigor in defining the options which are put to us here by the european commission. what seems to me absolutely decisive is what is stated in paragraph 8 of our resolution, which is also exactly what the environment committee says, namely that the label will only be fully effective if it is unique and understandable to the consumer, and this is not compatible with a system in which the commission plays a secondary role and in which advertising initiatives have more weight than a set of strict and objective criteria. so from this point of view, i think we must have a strong centralised position, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment has stressed, and we cannot compromise, otherwise we will lose this effort and initiative altogether.
on behalf of the ppe-de group, mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we stand in solidarity with the aim of preventing and combating terrorism, because it is a threat that has already been felt in some of our member states and is constantly hanging over us all. we want to cooperate with other states in the fight against terrorism, and in particular with the united states of america. one of the main concerns of our citizens at the moment is their security and the union's united efforts will make the responses all the more effective. that is why an agreement between the union and the united states of america is preferable to 25 bilateral agreements. this allows for a stronger union position, not only in preventing and combating terrorism, but also in protecting fundamental rights. we must prevent a legal vacuum at european level regarding the transfer of passenger data from 1 october 2006. commissioner frattini made the right choice in the face of the court of justice's decision to terminate the existing agreement and at the same time to open negotiations for a new agreement with the united states. the ppe group clearly supported the commission's request to the council to give it a mandate to restart the negotiations. we know that this is a short-term agreement to complete the remaining time of the terminated agreement and a long-term agreement which can and should be considered now. in the context of future negotiations i would like to highlight the example of the agreements with australia and canada, which we consider acceptable from the point of view of the principle of proportionality and where the correct limits are set as regards the scope, time and number of data and where there is a control by a judicial authority. i therefore support the idea of starting a dialogue between the european union, the united states, canada and australia later this year with a view to jointly preparing the 2007 review and establishing a global standard for the transmission of pnr data. i would also like to welcome the desire already expressed by commissioner frattini to maintain close cooperation with the european parliament. i hope that this will be expressed in concrete action and not just in rhetoric and that the council will follow suit.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the cultural heritage of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cultural heritage of the european union is protected and that it is not subject to any discrimination. beyond the cultural interests at stake, it is important to stress that there is a clear human, social and economic interest in taking these ideas seriously. the sifunakis report has the merit of setting out a number of political priorities for achieving those aims. from the systematic study and survey of this heritage to the recognition of its variety and versatility, from the elaboration of a legislative framework for the promotion and safeguarding of traditional buildings, to financial aid, to traditional activities, from agriculture to handicrafts, from the safeguarding of traditional crafts and know-how to the rehabilitation of natural and human habitats and the training of artisans and the adoption of new methodologies and techniques, and finally from the promotion of initiatives within the framework of community programmes to the creation of an inventory of european heritage in this field and the valorization of all the material and immaterial elements that make up this heritage, the eco-aspects covered by the document we are considering are very broad and not necessarily exhaustive in the points it lists. to defend the heritage of rural and island areas in this way is also to counteract the progressive desertification of many of the localities in question and to create poles that ensure employment and generate wealth and sustained development. the authorities of my country stress that heritage policy in rural areas must be based on three main pillars: a sustainable balance between the population and the environment, integrated action translated into real coordination between various sectors of the executive and local populations, and a permanent dialogue with the population as real stakeholders who are aware of their needs. some of the aspects listed are already proposed by the commission for the period 2007 to 2013 and it is hoped that a well-calibrated policy for rural and island heritage will help to reverse the negative trends currently being detected. the 2000 charter of krakow advocates principles that are fully applicable in this area, based on the plurality of values and the diversity of heritage interests, among them, historic cities and towns in their territorial context represent an essential part of our universal heritage and should be seen as a whole, with structures, spaces and human factors normally present in the process of continuous evolution and change.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus, and for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. it has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus, and for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. or when it 'expresses its concern about the growing disparities and unequal distribution of wealth, massive unemployment and uncontrolled urbanization, the increase in crime and corruption and the serious environmental problems in china', concerns which reveal the hypocrisy of those who, after all, have no moral compass to do so, see the brutal anti-social offensive promoted in the eu and the very serious deterioration of the social situation in different countries that are part of it. so our vote against..
in writing. the relationship with china is one of the situations which should raise the most questions for those responsible for foreign policy in the member states of the european union and beyond. on the one hand, it is a totalitarian state which shows no respect for human rights, has no concern whatsoever for humanity, the environment, integrated development, the promotion of freedom and respect for the minimum values required of the human community. at the same time it is an economy of immense importance, with a tendency to grow more and more, and as is becoming evident, economic progress - to which the strengthening of eu-china trade relations has contributed - has produced the desired effect of the development of an urban middle class which, in time, will, we hope, promote a democratic impulse. however, as we noted in the report, the experience of macau and hong kong, closely followed by the eu, proves that a better system than that which is being experienced in the rest of china is possible. finally, a note to deplore the attitude of the pse which, anticipating a result contrary to its interests, wanted to temporarily suppress the report. it's a bad habit to have.
in writing. as the debate has shown, the creation of an ecological labelling of fish caught raises important questions. the rapporteur says that one type of criterion could be based on objectivity - such as scientific analyses - which results from the application of community rules which aim to ensure that all fishing activities carried out in the different countries of the european union are sustainable. however, it is possible to introduce another type of criterion, for example relating to the most selective production methods, which would lead to the application of an a posteriori criterion, reversing the principle that it is in the decision on technical measures that the effects on resources should be analysed and not afterwards. the commission has also proposed the introduction of food safety criteria, which would raise the question of whether it is permissible to accept that fishery products caught in the wild may not be safe for human consumption. in that case, it's not a question of labelling. this fish could not be put up for sale or caught. it is what happens when you consider that there is some kind of marine pollution that leads to a ban on fishing. we therefore reaffirm what we stand for in our intervention.
in writing. it is regrettable that the european parliament has taken the path which this resolution takes in equating israel and palestine, that is, the aggressor and the aggressed, when it is necessary to clearly condemn the real war crimes committed by israel in lebanon, the aggressions and the real state terrorism which it continues to practice against the occupied palestinian territories, particularly in gaza. it's a bad start. at a particularly complex and dangerous time, the european union must at least demand that israel comply with the un decisions on the occupation of the palestinian territories, that israeli operations in the occupied palestinian territories be immediately terminated, that the blockade of gaza be lifted immediately, including the reopening of the border with egypt and the guarantee of the free movement of people and goods, that the golan heights and sheba farms be returned to syria and lebanon, that palestinian ministers and elected representatives be immediately released and that negotiations be opened for the exchange of prisoners, that settlements be ended and that the transfer of palestinian tax and customs revenues by israel be resumed. lasting peace in the middle east requires respect for the sovereign rights of the peoples of palestine, syria and lebanon.
in writing. the european parliament has once again, and this is a matter for criticism, insisted unacceptably on whitewashing the deep-seated responsibility and crimes committed by israel, seeking to confuse the aggressor, israel, and its criminal action with its victims, the palestinian and lebanese peoples, and their legitimate right to resistance in the face of aggression and occupation. it also insists on the exhaustive link between resolution 1701 and un security council resolution 1559, stressing that 'the ultimate objective must be the disarmament of all militias, including hezbollah', while referring to resolutions 242, 338, 426 and 520 as mere references. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war, and called on the council to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of nuclear war.
in writing. sometimes it's necessary to talk only of peace. there's a time when it shouldn't be recriminations, comparisons, settling scores. peace in the middle east can only be built between peoples, countries, free and democratic states, responsible for their actions and able to administer their territory. democracy, freedom and development are the best antidote to the ideologies that hold the unfortunate hostage to terrorism and extremism. at this time it is also necessary to talk about security. you can't build peace without security. that is why the deployment of a significant and capable military force to southern lebanon is a resolution that can change the course of events, that can prevent the recurrence of attacks and wars. we are aware of the risks, however. not all are men of goodwill, not all regimes pursue conciliation. but that doesn't stop peace, it just stops naivety.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report but regret that the proposal we made to the commission to request extraordinary community support to portugal, including financial support, to support the recovery of the burnt forest areas of the peneda-gerês national park and the serras d'aire and candeeiros natural park, because of their invaluable ecological, landscape and economic importance, was rejected. we are, however, pleased that the european parliament has once again asked the commission to apply the european solidarity fund flexibly in order to facilitate its application in cases such as these of the tragedies resulting from forest fires. not only do they cause enormous damage, but they also affect the way of life of the population, especially in the less prosperous regions, which have to cope with adverse effects on infrastructure, economic potential, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism, which has a negative impact on economic and social cohesion. we also welcome the insistence that the eafrd and forest focus should pay attention to forest fire prevention policies in the southern countries.
in writing. we just got back from vacation. usually rested and energized. no, i'm not going. this year we 're back poorer - the fires have devastated forests, attacked homes and taken human lives. we are tired of excuses and undoubtedly disappointed. in recent years the scene has repeated itself without fail - drought, hot summers, fires. it is not enough to simply calculate the exact time of crisis. much more can and should be done. member states shall be responsible for the management of emergencies on their territory. and they should be held accountable when they do not do everything in their power to prevent these disasters. i therefore regret the failure of my government to clear the forests for which it is responsible, in particular the peneda-gerês national park. this failure is incomprehensible. this failure was incendiary. i cannot help but regret the loss of human lives in various fires, both in my country and in other european countries. if we need reasons to be more effective, then the actions of our countries and the union's assistance measures are committed to these lost lives. we must be ruthless in fighting fires, ruthless in fighting the destruction of our property and forests, ruthless in preserving the future.
in writing. in line with the statements made by unice and commissioner mandelson, the suspension of the wto negotiations is being dramatized by selling the idea that the least developed countries will be the most affected, by whitewashing the content of the doha agenda, which seeks to advance the liberalization of trade in goods and services, by insisting on the idea that it is by free trade from any obstacle for the large multinationals that development is promoted and that there is a contradiction between multilateral and bilateral regional trade liberalization agreements. well, nothing could be further from the truth. the wto serves the interests of the big multinationals by ensuring the expansion of markets, boosting profits and access to raw materials and removing obstacles to further exploitation of the capitalist periphery. there is a limitation on the expansion of markets and the strengthening of emerging powers, which increases the rivalries of the centre and makes it more difficult for the periphery to accept blindly, but also a greater resistance to the ruinous policies of the imf, the wb or the wto and the overwhelming dominance of the transnational corporations. hence the negotiating pressure for the acceptance of the agenda by the periphery, as happened with the uruguay round, which took eight years to complete. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. anyone who believes that trade is one of the driving forces behind economic development and, not least, the rapprochement of peoples, can only regret the decision last july to suspend the doha round negotiations indefinitely. the inability to make progress in the negotiations is bad news. it is not a question of advocating the immediate and total opening of all frontiers or the immediate termination of all state support. in economics, utopias are often dangerous and precipitation is expensive. it is, however, entirely desirable that world trade should be opened up, that it should allow for an ever-increasing number of exchanges between the north and the south, between the south itself, between the more and the less developed countries. and to do so in a fair and balanced way. it is a question of ensuring advantages for the most competitive producers, the most committed exporters and, not least but so often forgotten, for consumers. the european union should be able to step up, reach a sufficient agreement among its members and take a leading role in the wto negotiations. a world with more free trade is a freer world.
in writing. airlines operating passenger flights to the united states provide the security agencies of that country, at the request of their authorities and under the pretext of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', with personal data contained in passenger identification records (pnr). these include some 34 types of information, which may include: hotel and car reservations, telephone numbers, email addresses, personal and business addresses, meal preferences, credit card numbers, and many others. the ep considered the eu-us agreement illegal, criticising its legal basis and lack of clarity and its excessive nature in view of the safeguarding of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees and the protection of personal data laid down in the european convention on human rights. the court of justice ruled in favour of the ep on the legal basis, annulling the council's decision with effect from 1 october 2006. this is another unacceptable situation which must end, because it calls into question rights, freedoms and guarantees in the context of the current security drift and it subordinates the exercise of the sovereignty of each country to the sovereignty of the usa, since the agreement declared the current and future legislation of the usa in this field to be applicable.
in writing. an agreement between the european union and the united states on the use of passenger name record data is of the utmost urgency in view of the legal gap that is looming on 1 october 2006. we must therefore be clear about the principles we are bringing to the negotiating table. the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens is undoubtedly the cornerstone of any negotiation in this area. but we cannot ignore that we are facing a terrifying new world in which the prevention and combating of terrorism is an increasingly central objective and value. just as globalization opened up new worlds and new exchanges, allowing citizens to explore new territories, it also allowed new monsters to show their claws. terrorism and organized crime are examples of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i am therefore confident that these are the same principles that guide our partners at the negotiating table and there is no doubt that the agreement to be negotiated will be made to the benefit of the protection of our citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr nikolaos sifunakis (a6-0260/2006) on the protection of europe's natural, cultural and architectural heritage in rural areas and island regions, because i believe that the cultural heritage dimension should be strengthened and fully incorporated into the policies and funding of the european union, in particular through the possibility of using the structural funds. considering that rural areas cover about 90% of the territory of enlarged europe and constitute a precious reserve of natural life and cultural capital, it is essential to focus more on the development of local economies as a way of stopping desertification by encouraging and supporting, in particular, 'alternative and sustainable tourism' and safeguarding traditional knowledge and crafts.
in writing. the report by mr nikolaos sifunakis (pse, gr) on the protection of the natural, architectural and cultural heritage of rural areas and islands was welcomed as it clearly points to the exceptional value of the historical and cultural heritage of cultural regions and islands as a substantial contribution to the social and economic development of these regions. i also believe that the value of this report lies in its emphasis on the concept of sustainable development, which is capable of encompassing a fundamental balance between local people and the environment, and in the integrated approach it advocates for traditionally agricultural areas. in the field of civil society participation, i think it is important to recall the emphasis put by my socialist colleague, mr sifunakis, on the need to involve local people in the preparation and implementation of policies, and some of the proposals in the report are: a systematic analysis of the rural heritage and the creation of a legal framework to enable its protection, funding for the restoration of local monuments and traditional forms of farming, substantial recovery of habitats and traditional forms of architecture, knowledge passed down through generations and professions, etc. i therefore vote in favour of this report on the basis of its quality, and i congratulate my colleague, mr sifunakis, on that.
in writing. despite some contradictions in the report and some pointed disagreements, we voted in favour of the final resolution because we believe it is important to support the protection and conservation of cultural heritage through the structural funds as well as through the existing community initiatives leader+, urban ii, interreg iii, which in the next budget period (2007-2013) will be integrated into the new financial instruments of the cap. we also welcome the encouragement given to the commission to adopt measures to improve accessibility, to encourage micro-enterprises, traditional skills and trades, and local customs and practices, and to launch a strong campaign to promote villages and places in the member states, thus making a decisive contribution to the development of the local economy and to combating desertification. the same applies to the invitation to the commission and the member states to work with the council of europe to reinforce the european heritage days' dimension of highlighting the traditional town centres and architectural heritage of rural areas and island regions in order to raise citizens' awareness of the value of local and regional cultural identities.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague nikolaos sifounakis on his important and timely report on the protection of the natural and architectural heritage of europe's rural and island regions, which i support, particularly as regards the need for the european union to take common measures to protect the heritage, which includes both the architecture and the natural heritage of the regions, marked by the way of life of human beings in these regions over time. the preservation of numerous elements of cultural heritage is the basis on which the social and economic development of many regions of europe should be based in the future, thus allowing better protection of the environment, better preservation of employment opportunities and better european integration, and avoiding abandonment and population desertification.
we are indeed facing what is one of the worst dictatorships in our world. a dictatorship that threatens the whole world with its nuclear program, but has managed to turn its country into a huge concentration camp. in view of this situation, and although i, like mr posselt, and of course all of us, wish for the end of this division, for the end of north korea as it exists today, we cannot wait until that end to express our utmost solidarity with the refugees from north korea. what we are asking the thai authorities to do is to show a minimum of justice, a minimum of humanity and dignity, not to criminalize those who are merely victims of a cruel dictatorship, to provide all possible assistance and also to call on the european institutions to cooperate in these efforts to help the refugees from north korea.
mr president, this september marks the 250th anniversary of the douro demarcated region in portugal, the first wine-growing region in europe to be created and regulated simultaneously. at a time when the european commission is preparing a new reform of the common organisation of the market in wine with a view to its progressive dismantling, this commemoration is of particular importance. it is not acceptable to call wine productions in the united states, south africa or elsewhere 'port wine'. we cannot accept the destruction of a regulation that is 250 years old. the quality of port wine is the result of all the knowledge accumulated by the people of the douro who, with a special climate and a specific sun, have built, over two hundred and fifty years on the slopes of the douro river, where this ancient demarcated and regulated region is located, a rich heritage that has been recognized by unesco as a world heritage site. we therefore ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to support the defence and promotion of this important cultural heritage, the culture of wine.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but if we are to give a sense of belonging to this complex reality called europe, the corresponding dimension must be conveyed to the citizens, especially the younger ones, because it is a condition of european citizenship itself, lived as such. young people must be made to understand and internalize that they belong to a common civilizational complex, from which derives not only the diversity of cultures and national entities, but also a special projection of europe in the world which has historically changed the destinies of humanity. there are also aspects of the greatest interest for the construction of the european union which are ancillary to the european dimension, such as scientific and technological progress which is today as much a feature of europe as of any other part of the world. other aspects linked to a specific european dimension come to the fore: history, human and physical geography, languages, as well as the cultural and artistic heritage in its material and immaterial aspects, etc. the national elements linked to these realities often have extensions, affinities and interferences and even antagonisms and conflicts arising from neighbourhood relations and are therefore organized from the outset in patches that transcend the borders of each country. but there is a whole, which is the matrix in which all these elements coexist in a dynamic interaction and which allows us to characterize ourselves as europeans. this is the european dimension we are talking about. translating it into the curriculum plan will be a complex task. it is necessary to set priorities, find methodologies, reformulate programmes and prepare teaching materials, as well as train teachers and educators in each country. as in the case of the construction of europe, we shall also have a multipolar and gradual process with advances and setbacks, hesitations and syntheses. it is urgent to initiate it. the european dimension is the european added value and it is more europe that we are talking about.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism on the white paper on services of general interest, i have advocated, and it has been the commission's position to advocate, a clear exclusion of services of general interest from the scope of the internal market services directive in respect of the exclusive competence of each member state to define, organise, finance, evaluate and control these same services, which has been enshrined by parliament and which is good for the functioning of the market, for solidarity with citizens and for respect for the competence of national, regional and local authorities. secondly, we advocate the definition and description of services of general interest and a clarification of the distinction between services of general economic interest and non-economic services of general interest in the light of their legal certainty. thirdly, to adopt a framework legislation for economic and non-economic gis and gis, a general legal framework, as the president of the commission has just said, or a framework directive, as you prefer. the important thing is to lay down, in particular, the minimum requirements to be met by these activities and the general criteria for their operation, organisation, evaluation and control by the member states and the national, regional and local authorities. the fact that this legislation covers services of general economic interest does not prevent specific legislation on certain sectors such as transport. in general, the ideas we are advocating are contained in the rapkay report and hence my support and agreement, although i may be able to approve some of the necessary amendments. finally, madam president, i only regret that reference has not been made to the outermost regions, since this justifies the services of general interest as being what they are not or may not be today. i hope that the commission and the president will take note not only of the report but also of the points i have mentioned.
in writing. while it is true that there are disparities between and within the member states in the integration of the european dimension in education and that the linguistic aspect is particularly important, and therefore the comenius and lingua programmes should be given more community funding, we do not agree that there should be a single vision of history and so-called european values. each country has its own specificity and each people its own history. even this can be viewed from different angles depending on which side of the observation you are on. we believe that the richness of europe is the diversity of its cultures and languages, which must be maintained and any form of standardization avoided. so while the report highlights some positive aspects of language and other skills, we also disagree with some attempts at standardization which it may lead to, following on from previous reports and existing community programmes. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the debate on the european dimension in schools may be overlooked by the most distracted. however, this is a debate that touches on fundamental issues. we must not forget that the decisions we make in the field of education will decisively influence future generations, their lives and their understanding of the world. i therefore regard as of the utmost importance what mr beazley has said about language skills and would like to point out that the european linguistic competence index cannot be a wrong and counterproductive signal to encourage the widespread learning of only a few european languages. the projecting of the other european languages outside europe is a matter of the utmost importance, it is a capital of knowledge which must be stimulated throughout europe. it is the examples of some countries, such as austria, spain, portugal or slovenia, that we should follow. the place occupied by the european dimension in the education system of these countries is well established and the learning of european languages is encouraged. the european dimension in schools cannot be overlooked, especially when we consider the european presence in the world, the new challenges of economic growth we are facing and the objectives of cooperation policies with the rest of the world.
in writing. the high level of air pollution, especially in densely populated regions and urban centres in the eu, is responsible, among other factors, for numerous respiratory diseases and severe damage to ecosystems. children, the elderly and people living near the most populous cities or traffic routes are particularly vulnerable. in the commission's initial proposal, the proposed pollution limit values represented a step backwards from the 1999 directive 1999/30/ec. particular emphasis should be placed on the fine particulate matter (pm2.5) limits, which are very high and above those recommended by the world health organization. unfortunately, the proposals put forward by the gue group were rejected in the debate in the european parliament. the document that has been finally adopted is therefore of limited scope, although it contains some positive proposals which seek to strike a balance in the fight against pollution, albeit in a mitigated way. that is why we abstained.
in writing. ambient air quality is a determining factor for the health and quality of life of european citizens. this proposal, which merges the existing provisions on air quality into a single directive 5 and adds ambition to the existing provisions, is therefore of great importance in the context of the simplification of environmental legislation. we therefore support the introduction of new targets for pm10 and in particular the setting of target values for pm2.5, which are considered to be the most harmful to human health and which were not yet covered by legislation at european level. we have tabled amendments introducing measures such as the revision of the directive every five years to take account of the latest scientific knowledge, the guarantee of air quality, the exclusion of certain areas which we consider irrelevant because they are not exposed to the public or are properly controlled environments and finally the simplification of measurement criteria at the roadside. the psd meps support the krahmer report, as amended.
in writing. the location of the institutions' headquarters is not merely a geographical, logistical or economic issue. when a city is chosen as the seat of a community institution, there is a political component to that choice which is fully justified - it does not follow that any political option is valid, regardless of its economic or logistical rationality. in the case of the european parliament, the choice of strasbourg was made for a historical reason which, in the face of the requirements of economic rationality and practicality, is now out of place. now, since that is not the question here, it is necessary to bear that in mind. when it would be expected that the city of strasbourg would make it as easy as possible for the parliament to be housed in this place - and it is permissible for it to bear some of the costs, as is often the case under the rules of good hospitality in these circumstances - it is discovered (or suspected, without the responsible bodies helping to clarify fully) that the european parliament in strasbourg is a real estate business from which the municipality obtains an unjustified profit. the lack of good faith, good hospitality and reasonableness which this reveals deserves the strongest condemnation and must be taken into account in the choices which will be made regarding the location of parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the prets report (a6-0255/2006) on the european charter for quality mobility because i consider it essential to adopt measures to ensure a significant increase in mobility as an integral part of european citizenship. the european charter for quality mobility should contribute to raising the overall quality levels of european mobility, developing the recognition of periods spent in education or vocational training, qualifications, qualifications and social security benefits, and establishing bonds of mutual trust in order to improve and strengthen cooperation between authorities, organisations and mobility participants.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague christa prets on the timely report produced on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and the council on transnational mobility in the community for education and training purposes: a european quality charter for mobility, which i support, in particular the proposed amendments to encourage european public authorities to establish measures to support the improvement of mobility in europe and to facilitate the mobility of researchers, students and teachers in the eu. mobility in education and vocational training contributes in a very significant way to the development of a sense of belonging to europe and consequently to the acquisition of a european consciousness and the development of european citizenship, and is the driving force behind the creation of a society based on knowledge, innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. when european citizens take ownership of an eu project, it is a sign of its success. this was and is clearly the case with programmes which encourage student mobility. the number of applicants is so large that it is already being referred to as the 'erasmus generation', and the number of applicants is growing every year. it is their successes that make people believe in european citizenship. however, the political initiative of the european union was quickly overtaken by the success of the community programmes. it is now necessary to catch up and adopt a series of measures to remove the last remaining obstacles (legal, administrative and financial) and thus allow the greatest benefits to be derived from mobility in the field of education and training. i support this report because it advocates the adoption of a european charter on the quality of mobility, with the emphasis not only on increasing mobility but also on improving its quality, thus optimising the development of human capital. any improvement in mobility in the fields of education and training makes an unambiguous contribution to the realisation of a knowledge-based economy, job creation and sustainable development, the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mrs helga trüpel, on her report on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning, which i support, particularly as regards the need to increase investment in education and training. i also believe that it is very important in this context to provide european citizens with the necessary tools to adapt to a labour market characteristic of a knowledge-based society.
in writing. as a native of a country which still has high rates of illiteracy, illiteracy, longterm unemployment and where about 50% of students do not complete secondary education, i supported this report by making lifelong learning a priority in the reform of labour markets. the pressure of globalisation and new technologies has markedly accentuated some of the shortcomings in a number of key skills that make it difficult for workers to adapt to increasingly flexible labour markets. with the adoption of a european reference framework, the action is developed both upstream by supporting the education/training of young people to equip them with the key knowledge they need to enter the labour market and downstream by developing and updating the key competences of workers through lifelong learning. the action thus focuses on both the acquisition of skills and their development and subsequent updating. this initiative is in line with the lisbon strategy's objectives of growth and employment and is funded by the new generation of community programmes (2007-2013), such as the esf, which makes lifelong learning one of its priorities for action. i support this report because i am in favour of a modern social policy which is in line with the new realities of the society in which we live and work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hegyi report (a6-0233/2006) on a thematic strategy for the urban environment because it is essential to promote the overall environmental performance of cities in europe by reducing red tape, enhancing the effectiveness of environmental policy implementation and encouraging long-term environmental planning. considering that some 80% of the european population live in cities, but that their needs and interests do not always merit due attention in the framework of european union funds, projects, initiatives and strategies, a higher level of demand is needed at the level of community legislation with a view to increasing the quality of life of the inhabitants of europe's cities, in particular through the adoption of urban management plans for sustainable urban transport.
in writing. the report adopted today in the european parliament has positive aspects which we support, such as the more widespread use of environmentally friendly transport, the encouragement of the use of public transport, the reduction of building density, more green space in urban areas, the rehabilitation of degraded buildings and in particular of historic centres, and a higher environmental performance of buildings in terms of insulation and the use of renewable energy. it is also important, as the report states, to promote the exchange of best practice at community level on sustainable urban management strategy and plans and to increase citizen participation in public debates during their development. however, all this also presupposes greater community support in terms of the means of financing, which unfortunately does not happen. on the contrary, the european union is introducing more obligations and taxes without creating the appropriate financial means, which may exacerbate the asymmetries between the richer regions and countries and other deprived areas.
in writing. accessibility is central to sustainable development. transport is thus at the heart of any discussion of urban policy. as there are many ideas that try to solve the environmental and congestion problems that our cities suffer from, i think it is the consequences for public health and quality of life, in terms of socioeconomic dynamism, that we should be concerned about. the idea of sustainable urban transport plans is undoubtedly important, but we cannot forget the need to use this instrument in a flexible way and adapted to the specificities of each city. the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport and technologies is also a key factor in achieving a cleaner urban environment. but its dissemination will only be effective through the exchange of experience and good practice between local and national authorities. it seems clear to me that in order to promote an integrated approach to urban policy it is of the utmost importance to promote public-private partnerships and to manage effectively the existing community instruments in support of urban policies. only by taking measures appropriate to the specific situations of each member state can we ensure the sustainable future of our cities and the harmonious growth of our societies.
in writing. it is true that the recognition of qualifications between the different member states of the european union is important for people who want to move to other countries, so the existence of a european qualifications framework can bring advantages. it is also good that the idea of imposing criteria on the branch, duration and location of studies and training courses, as is done in the report, is rejected. we also welcome the fact that it is stated that the organisation and validation of lifelong learning is a matter for the member states and that the eqf can hardly intervene in this matter. but it is essential to pay close attention to the way in which this european qualifications framework is being constructed, to the framework from which it is being built and to the objectives which are being pursued. the report is full of contradictions in this field. the attempts to frame this whole construction within the framework of the so-called bologna process and the lisbon strategy, which, as we know, is primarily intended to protect the interests of economic and financial groups, are examples of this. that is why we abstained.
in writing. i support this report because i am convinced that the creation of the european qualifications framework (eqf) will contribute to greater employability and geographical mobility of the labour force in the european union. i support this european approach because it addresses the new challenges of the knowledge society and aims to respond to the new demands of the european labour market, since the underlying philosophy of the eqf is precisely based on promoting the competitiveness of the european economy and social cohesion, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i cannot but support initiatives which help to give greater prominence to the ability of citizens to get work by encouraging professional mobility through the recognition, comparability and transferability of professional qualifications within the community. i regret, however, that this initiative is not sufficiently linked to the realities of the labour market and that it obscures the importance of vocational training by focusing predominantly on academic training.
i am able to inform you that commissioner rehn had other commitments and could not be present at this meeting. i give the floor to commissioner louis michel again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the question period is now over (b6-0429/2006). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 33 by avril doyle (h-0756/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: emissions trading scheme 2008-2012 - national allocation plans with regard to the european emissions trading scheme for the period 2008-2012, can the commission comment on the fact that the deadline for all member states to submit their national allocation plans and for the commission to submit its report on these plans, which had been set for 30 june 2006, expired without these requirements having been met? less than half of the member states have submitted their national allocation plans. how does the commission intend to ensure that the second emissions trading scheme is ready and operational by 2008?
question no 34 by danute budreikaite (h-0760/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: enlargement of the schengen area the european union is preparing for the enlargement of the schengen area. however, according to certain sources, it will not be possible to renounce internal border control in 2007 due to technical problems linked to the central database for the protection of the external borders. could the commission state how it is preparing for the enlargement of the schengen area? when can this enlargement actually take place? how are the applicant countries preparing to apply the requirements of the schengen area?
i would remind you that this issue of the enlargement of the schengen area will be discussed at our october plenary session. we shall therefore have the opportunity to return to the matter in the presence of commissioner frattini. question no 35 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0769/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: foreign language readers in italy following the judgment of the european court of justice of 18 july 2006 in case c-119/04, does the commission intend to request a review of the judgment on the basis that important information on the actual employment situation of foreign language interpreters in italy has not been made available to the european court of justice?
question no 36 by mr esko seppänen (h-0738/06) subject: administrative expenditure of the commission in its budget for 2007, the council proposes considerable savings in administrative expenditure which would be achieved by abolishing posts in the commission. what would be the consequences of these possible cuts in the number of commission officials and the staff of the agencies in the coming years?
question no 37 by mrs ingeborg grässle (h-0758/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: financial corrections following the modernisation of accounting and commission investigation of bank accounts relating to its activities why does the commission intend to make the financial corrections before the publication of the report of the european court of auditors on the modernisation of accounting, which is due to take place on 23 october 2006? how many of the bank accounts covered by section 1.3.1 of draft amending budget no 5 to the general budget for 2006 are listed in the commission's list of its own bank accounts of which it was not aware, which was sent on 2.6.2006 (additional to questions e-4819/05 and h-0212/06) in response to a written question from the european parliament? what is the total amount involved in the case of at least 377 unknown bank accounts? how many accounts are involved and what are the amounts involved in the case of 'banks in bankruptcy', 'cash differences' and 'past balance' referred to in amending budget no 5? how did the cash differences arise and did they result from the opening of accounts outside the budget? what is meant by "weight of the past" and what is its origin?
question no 38 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0700/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: skill brain drain from new eu member states internal borders and obstacles have been removed in the eu and will disappear completely within a few years. the increasingly deep integration of the new and old eu member states is facilitating a process of brain drain and skilled labour flight, which is accelerating. the new member states are deprived, to the benefit of the former eu countries, of a large proportion of their most dynamic citizens, who have acquired a quality education or good qualifications in their home country. it seems that the eu is visibly giving aid to the new member states under various funds, while invisibly depriving them of young specialists by seducing them. one solution to this problem could be the creation of a specific community fund aimed at limiting the consequences of brain drain as well as of skilled labour (such as a 'globalization fund'). the contribution to this fund would be higher for countries hosting qualified specialists. the funds raised could be used to strengthen the education system of countries affected by the exodus of their labour force, in order to create new jobs there. what is the commission's position on this proposal or other equivalent proposals? do you agree that a fundamentally positive process the creation of a common labour market also generates a crucial problem of brain drain and skilled labour, which needs to be addressed by joint efforts of the eu and all 25 member states?
question no 39 by mr gyula hegyi (h-0701/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: education - teaching of languages the european union and its member states invest enormous sums in language teaching. however, the results are poor, as studies show that only half of eu citizens can hold a conversation in a foreign language. will the commission take measures to encourage member states to evaluate, without any prejudice, the effectiveness of different methods of language teaching, including new techniques? why are european union publications not being translated into the languages of the new member states?
i fully understand your indignation, to some extent i share it, but it is not strictly correct to say that the questions will not be answered, because they will be answered, of course, in writing. i am not responsible for setting the rules of the game, i am only the arbiter and interpreter of those rules and, as you will understand, we cannot prolong our work indefinitely. i give the floor to commissioner figel again.
questions 40 to 43 will be answered in writing.
question no 44 by mr ignasi guardans cambó (h-0694/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: delays in the construction of the perpignan-montpellier high-speed railway as already indicated by the essen council, decision no 1692/96/ec oj l 228, 9.9.1996, p. 1. and the van miert group, the commission has opted for, selected from the 30 priority ten-t projects the construction of the lisbon-madrid-barcelona-perpignan-montpellier high-speed railway line. decision no 884/2004/ec oj l 167, 30.4.2004, p. 1, provides that work on the perpignan-montpellier line should be completed in 2015. france has recently announced that it is postponing the completion of this line until 2030. assuming that france considers this public works project from an internal perspective, the eu would allow the railway isolation of the member states and would hamper the mobility of citizens and the transport of goods. has the commission received any official communication from the french government to modify the timetable for the construction of the perpignan-montpellier high-speed line? what is the commission's view of this delay? what measures has the commission taken to prevent european decisions on major infrastructure being ignored by a member state in defence of its supposed interests and to the detriment of its neighbours?
question no 45 by mr tarabella (h-0697/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: incorrect application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on air passenger rights in its answer to question e-1422/06 on the subject under consideration, the commission states that member states are not obliged to notify it of the handling of complaints received, nor of the solutions given by airlines in the event of overbooking, significant delays or cancellation of flights. can the commission state on what actual data it is based in order to report to parliament and the council on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1. on 1 january 2007? how do you intend to ensure a uniform interpretation and application of the regulation if you are not informed by the commission about the action taken on complaints? how do you intend to prevent companies from using reasons which cannot be verified by users to prevent the regulation from being applied and to turn it into an exercise in style ?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). questions 63, 64 and 77 will not be taken, since their subjects are already on the agenda for this part-session. question time to the commission is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
we agree that the euro must be properly protected by joint, uniform and effective measures, which must be achieved through close cooperation at both european and international level. that is why we applaud the creation of the pericles programme. we welcome the detailed report to this parliament on the implementation and results of this programme and we stress that the results are frankly positive. in the last half of 2003, the number of counterfeit euro banknotes in circulation stabilised at a level below both the levels recorded before the introduction of the euro and the counterfeiting levels of the us dollar. while the number of counterfeit euro coins continues to increase, it remains low in comparison with the counterfeiting of old coins. we can therefore say that there is a minimum rate of counterfeiting, to which the high degree of cooperation of the competent services contributes greatly. the commission has also been involved in the dismantling and confiscation of large volumes of counterfeit banknotes and coins before they were put into circulation. the programme thus largely achieved its objectives and identified the geographical areas which have the most significant impact on the production of counterfeit notes, both at community and international level. it has also made it possible to achieve considerable structural improvements, such as the creation in several countries of central bodies responsible for combating counterfeiting of the euro. i therefore support the excellent proposal by the rapporteur, mr agustín díaz de mera, to approve the extension of the programme until the end of 2013 in order to align its duration with the financial perspective and, and i would like to stress its importance, to extend its application to the non-participating member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a decision on the strategic guidelines for cohesion, which we have been asked to give our assent to and which will serve as the basis for the elaboration of the national strategic reference frameworks, seems to me to be an excellent process of intentions for the council and we should thank it for the enormous effort of our colleague, mrs constanze krehl. these strategic guidelines clearly state that europe needs to focus on meeting the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy, which are of course very dear to me, both in terms of jobs and growth, and in terms of encouraging innovation and a knowledge-based economy. in seeking to respond to the challenges of the european union on a global scale and in emphasising the new dimension and scale we have today, particular care must be taken to ensure that everyone is involved, whether they are the social partners, ngos, municipalities or regions. today we are a huge giant with great ambitions and we cannot afford to neglect this or that part of the territory so that together we can achieve the objectives we set ourselves. we have to prove that the typical multi-level model of our society is sufficiently robust. full employment, a skilled workforce, lifelong learning or increased productivity are essential factors if the union's economic, social and territorial cohesion is to be a successful reality. to do that, they have to reach everyone in the spirit of networking. the focus on innovation and researchers, through incentives to keep these talents in europe, together with the creation of centres of excellence, is in my view very well considered in this document as a key element for the economic development of the regions and the member states. there is a growing awareness of the need to decentralize knowledge spots from large population centres to less populated areas, which could offer excellent conditions for the radiation of these centres.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mrs constanze krehl, on the excellent work she has done on the proposal for a council decision on the community's strategic guidelines. the rapporteur's work was essential in ensuring that several european parliament positions on issues such as sustainable development, the urban dimension, equal opportunities, renewable energy, etc., were welcomed by the council, which is one of the reasons why this recommendation for a favourable opinion of the european parliament is being made. after the adoption of the council decision, member states will have very little time to present to the european commission their strategies for implementing the structural funds, which will already incorporate the community guidelines. it regrets that this tight timetable could jeopardise the implementation of the new cohesion policy as early as january 2007. i would also like to express my agreement with the guidelines and priorities proposed, in particular the idea of cohesion policy as a crucial instrument for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. but let us not forget that the lisbon strategy is based above all on a logic of promoting european competitiveness, as opposed to a logic of solidarity on which cohesion policy is based. it will not always be easy to reconcile these two different logics, but a balance must be found. in the light of the above, i think it is very questionable whether the old member states should commit a high percentage of the funds to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and at the same time promote an effective cohesion policy, particularly in the area of territorial cohesion. i am, however, confident that the national strategies to be presented will strike the best balance between competitiveness and solidarity.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are discussing in this parliament the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. we must recognize that much has been done, but much remains to be done. the minister's kind remarks on the completion of the sis, the schengen information system, are noted. i hope that we can quickly vote on a compromise at first reading which will give us the legislative instrument needed to implement the second generation of sis. i also congratulate the finnish presidency for including the issue of immigration among the priorities for the next european council. we hope that the council will respond to our request to extend the codecision process to the areas of legal immigration and integration. we want more democratic legitimacy and a common european approach to migration based on the principles of cohesion and solidarity, including a policy of integration for immigrants living legally in europe. i was pleased to hear the minister refer to recent events in the canary islands and the mediterranean. urgent and concrete measures are needed in the field of maritime operational cooperation in order to develop adequate surveillance capacities at maritime borders and to create rapid border intervention teams. i particularly agree with what commissioner frattini said, that it is necessary to provide the community instruments with means. frontex, for example, cannot be deprived of the financial means it needs to carry out its tasks. finally, immigration policy must include the relentless fight against illegal immigration, human trafficking, the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin and the existence of open channels for legal immigration, as well as cooperation and support for the development of the countries of origin. mr president, mr minister, we must condemn the extraordinary processes of mass immigration, such as those carried out by spain in may last year.
in a two-minute speech on the important issue of immigration - which would require a broad approach given the many aspects it covers - i would like to reiterate that: - an end must be put to the security and repressive policies which criminalize immigrants, men and women who only aspire to work and a decent life; - the closure of immigration detention centres and the end of the inhumane policy of deportation; - the fight against traffickers in human beings and those who are in league with them must be undertaken; - the fight against xenophobia and racism and all the policies and distortions which fuel them must be fought; - the need to regularize immigrant workers, ensuring their labour and social rights, a necessary condition for the end of unacceptable situations of over-exploitation; - an effective integration policy is required, including family reunification; - a policy must be adopted to reverse the current concentration of wealth in the hands of a few at the expense of the exploitation and poverty of millions and millions of human beings. some data from the united nations: the 691 richest people in the world have a net worth of 2.2 trillion dollars, or the combined wealth of 145 of the poorest countries. put another way, the 500 richest people have a combined income greater than the 416 million poorest people. the richest 8 million people have a net worth equal to 80% of the gdp of all the countries in the world; - i know . in other words, a policy is needed that uses mankind's ample resources, means and scientific and technical advances to effectively solve the problems facing the peoples of the world. a policy opposed to neoliberalism, militarism and disregard for the sovereignty of peoples and states.
in writing. the extension of this fisheries agreement should allow for better preparation of the new eu-guinea-bissau partnership agreement. the main difficulty facing the community fleet at the moment is the apparent lack of means of controlling and monitoring the guinean eez, particularly outside the 12 miles, which translates into illegal practices that put the sustainability of the fishing activity of the community fleet at risk. this extension maintains the fishing opportunities of the european fleet and is intended to enable the government of guinea-bissau to guarantee the eu conditions for good fishing practices, taking into account the sustainability of the resources exploited. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. the adoption of the progress programme brings together all the community measures which were previously divided into several programmes: the fight against discrimination, the community strategy for equality between men and women, employment incentives, activities relating to working conditions and measures to combat social exclusion. although during the debate and negotiation phase it was possible to improve several aspects of the commission's initial proposal on progress, including now several of our own proposals, in particular the opinion that i was rapporteur on in the committee on women's rights, the truth is that the important point of sharing has not been changed. this means a step backwards for associations working in the area of poverty and social exclusion, because in 2001 it was possible to negotiate a 90% participation and now there is a retreat to 80% which covers all equally, although there may be exceptions, of very difficult approval. that is the fundamental reason why we abstained in this report approving the progress programme.
in writing. the general objective of the community programme for employment and social solidarity (progress) is to provide financial support for the implementation of the european union's objectives in the field of employment and social affairs and to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the social agenda in the context of the lisbon strategy. the partial political agreement on a common position already incorporates the vast majority of parliament's amendments into the text of the proposal. the positions of the european parliament, the council and the european commission on this programme are broadly in line. i therefore give my full support to the text of the common position which creates the conditions for a rapid adoption of the proposal for a decision establishing the programme. the text does not alter the substance of the commission's initial proposal, but it does bring more clarity and transparency to the implementation of the programme and, in particular, to budgetary matters.
in writing. as europe ages and the economy becomes more global, special attention needs to be paid to social policies in order to strengthen regional and social cohesion in the european area. more than an important social policy instrument, the progress programme is the recognition by this parliament that public policies remain decisive when it comes to promoting employment, social protection and inclusion, working conditions, combating discrimination and diversity and equality between men and women. it is of course very important that europe should see the indicators of economic growth improve. but for that to happen it is essential that member states understand that there is much to be done in fundamental areas, such as moving more decisively towards the completion of the internal market. this vision of more europe and less selfishness is also essential for the success of regional and social cohesion policies. i welcome the simplification that progress provides, continuing the development of activities launched by four previous programmes, in line with the european commission's intention to consolidate and rationalise the eu's financial instruments.
in writing. the swift adoption of the community strategic guidelines (csg) on cohesion is of the utmost importance to advance the ongoing process of programming the intervention of european funds in the member states in the context of the reform of cohesion policy for 2007-2013, so that the new financial programmes are operational as from 1 january 2007. the european parliament had already had the opportunity to express its opinion on the guidelines at its sitting on 18 may in a resolution adopted on the basis of the report by mrs constanze krehl on the preparation of the procedure for giving a favourable opinion on the community's strategic guidelines for the period 2007-2013 (cohesion policy to support growth and employment), which i supported and which was then voted in favour of. the recommendation for a favourable opinion on the proposal for a council decision on cohesion policy objectives put forward by mrs constanze krehl is based on the above-mentioned ep resolution of 18 may. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the european parliament has given its majority agreement to the community strategic guidelines on cohesion for 2007-2013, and the national reference frameworks for the different member states are now being submitted. however, we cannot agree with the change that these strategic guidelines advocate by subordinating cohesion to competitiveness, i.e. by subordinating the objective of economic and social cohesion to the objectives of the 'lisbon strategy' and its neoliberal agenda of liberalising markets and public services, encouraging deregulation and precariousness of work, privatising social security and commodifying education and research. in other words, an agenda that calls economic and social cohesion into question and promotes territorial disparities and social inequalities. the introduction of a minimum share of funds for these purposes - defined as at least 60% for the convergence regions - is therefore unacceptable, putting contradictory objectives in competition, especially in a context in which the weight of the funds is reduced to 0.37% of community gni compared to 0.41% in the previous framework. on the other hand, we cannot agree - for the time being - with the extension of the use of public-private partnerships. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism on the commission white paper on services of general interest (sgis), i argued for:- the clear exclusion of both non-economic (signe) and economic gis: the so-called 'services of general economic interest (sgei) ' from the scope of the services in the internal market directive (the 'services directive');- the adoption for gis (including for sgeis, subject to their being subject to sector-specific regulation), instead of a framework directive, framework legislation or a general legal framework, as you prefer to call it; the commission has also proposed that the definition and description of gis and the distinction between signs and sgeis be clarified, in the interests of legal certainty. in general, i think that these ideas are reflected in this report. that is why i supported it and voted in favour of it. however, i regret that the report does not take up another of the main ideas i advocated in that opinion, for which i was responsible: the consideration, within the gis, of the particular situation of the outermost regions, taking into account their specific, structural and permanent constraints.
in writing. we voted against this report because its general thrust is to subordinate public services to competition and to a future internal market in services, taking into account the compromise reached by the council on the infamous bolkenstein directive. at the same time, it whitewashes the effects of the sectoral liberalisations carried out to date, such as in transport, energy and communications, when, contrary to what is claimed and demonstrated by many user and consumer protection associations, liberalisation has led to greater difficulties in access and quality of services provided, to price increases and to the destruction of thousands of jobs under the pretext of sectoral restructuring. the attempt to divide services of general interest into economic and non-economic services, in a commercial logic, aims to place almost all public services under the logic of the market. we, on the other hand, defend the exclusive and sovereign competence of the member states to define the type, organisation and forms of financing of public services, while being certain that public ownership is fundamental in the defence of a quality public service to ensure universal access throughout the territory, supply at socially fair prices, and the democratic sharing of users in the definition, management and quality of these services.
in writing. whatever model of capitalism and market economy we profess, there will always be a need for the provision of services by public entities, directly or indirectly. the commission's proposal is therefore not a mere technical amendment to the directive, but a step in the right direction. however, in view of future developments, three reservations should be made. firstly, the eu is not designed to provide gis, and in the case of gis it tends to be (any exceptions should preferably be cooperation solutions between member states); the legislation on these services should tend to be national, although it should of course respect the rules of the internal market and the principles of freedom of establishment and the provision of services. finally, i regret that a resolution on this subject calls on the commission to make an exhaustive assessment of the effects of liberalization to date, particularly on the situation of the consumers and workers concerned. the term "affected" indicated an ideological choice in a space that should be impartial.
in writing. the eu's internal market has already shown clear evidence of success in liberalising vast sectors of its services, ultimately benefiting european consumers and workers. however, to revive the european economy, the eu needs to take another qualitative leap to complete its internal market and thus take full advantage of its advantages. this leap can be made through initiatives in the field of services of general interest (sigs), non-commercial public services financed mainly from public funds. i believe that the precise definition, formulation, organisation and financing of gis should be the sole responsibility of the member states, in accordance with national realities and with respect for regional and local autonomy. however, the exercise of gis at local, regional or national level has been in conflict with community standards. at european level, such services are in a legal fog, as it is not clear which rules apply to gis in matters such as competition, public procurement or the internal market. the case law of the ecj has also not helped to clarify matters. i support this report because it advocates a complete clarification between the application of community law on the one hand and the pursuit of public interest objectives in the provision of gis on the other.
in writing. one year after the start of the eu accession negotiations with turkey, the turkish authorities have not yet taken any steps towards recognising cyprus - an eu member state - and continue to occupy the north of the island in the mediterranean and disregard the implementation of un resolutions for decades. after a year of negotiations, we are receiving reports and information about the deterioration of the economic situation of the kurdish people and the disregard for their legitimate political and cultural rights, as well as the increased repression by the turkish police and military forces in this region. these two aspects alone would illustrate the multiplicity of issues that accompany the negotiation of the country's accession to the eu. accession by the eu's major powers in view of the ambition of its major economic and financial groups to exploit the country's economy and resources, as well as to use its geostrategic position for its plans of interference and domination in the middle east, the caucasus and central asia. the accession process also brings out contradictions as regards the sharing of the hegemony of the great powers in the eu decision-making process, and exacerbates the contradictions between the ambitions of the great european powers and the us for subordination/sharing in the face of us imperialism.
in writing. the debate on turkey's possible accession to the european union should be conducted in a transparent and clear manner and without any blackmail on either side. this means that the first point, which should be absolutely clear, is that this has to be an open process where the final outcome is not decided. moreover, it must be recognised from the outset that it is not just a question of turkey meeting a set of criteria without which accession would be impossible, but also of the european union being in a position to welcome turkey, to absorb it. on the other hand, as i had the opportunity to say at the beginning of this negotiating phase, i believe that a negotiation in which one party does not recognise the other in its entirety - as is the case with turkey in relation to cyprus and therefore the european union - is a negotiation which starts off on one side and with serious shortcomings. finally, this process has enormous potential for promoting economic openness, development, democracy and respect for human rights in turkey, and this potential cannot be squandered. the worst possible outcome of this process would be a divergence between turkey and europe.
the following are statements by the council and the commission on the situation in darfur.
the government of omar bashir is primarily responsible for the genocidal strategy against the people of darfur. the european union cannot continue to delude itself about this. the commission, the council and the european members of the un security council must immediately confront sudan with a un military mission in the darfur region under a robust mandate under chapter vii of the charter. they can't tolerate any more excuses and postponements. the sudanese rulers must be punished if they persist in blocking the international community's action in darfur. it is urgent to order the freezing of bank accounts and the blocking of international travel of sudanese rulers and other individuals already identified by the international criminal court as being mainly responsible for the atrocities. if china and russia continue to drag their feet on an embargo against khartoum, the european union should join the united states in declaring a trade embargo, particularly on arms and oil, and a total freeze on the financial transactions of the sudanese government. urgent military action is also needed. a no-fly zone over darfur can be operated from eastern chad to prevent sudanese air force flights attacking the population of darfur, as i and other members of parliament verified in september 2004 near al fashir. we must send a multinational force to eastern chad now to protect the refugees, to prepare the un force itself in darfur, to control the border between chad and sudan and to restore some regional stability. regional stability is also threatened by the escalation in somalia as a result of the ethiopian intervention instigated by the bush administration, with the disastrous result of strengthening the islamic courts in mogadishu. finally, the european union cannot remain silent on the role of china, russia and the arab league in supporting khartoum's genocidal strategy. after the principle of the responsibility to protect was enshrined in the un, moscow, beijing and the arab capitals are now covering themselves in shame by trying to make people forget the lessons of rwanda, bosnia and the congo in darfur against a muslim population being massacred by muslims.
madam president, commissioner, every day thousands of people die because of poverty, mostly children and women. the numbers are staggering: there are 2.5 billion people in the world who live on less than two dollars a day. like i said, most of them are women. poverty is at the root of trafficking in women and children, sexual slavery and gender-based violence. poverty leads to school dropouts, child labour, an increase in children at risk, illegal immigration, fundamentalism and terrorism. without economic autonomy there is no freedom and no equality. women, especially younger ones, are easily lured by international criminal organizations that promise them well-paying jobs in rich countries and then throw them into forced prostitution. women are generally not benefiting from the advantages of globalisation, which favours highly skilled workers, but are instead suffering the negative consequences of trade liberalisation. this report is very timely and i congratulate mrs breyer on the work she has done, which contains important proposals, of which i would highlight the use of micro-credit as a means of reducing poverty. in fact, microfinance instruments have proved effective in combating poverty and it has been women who have taken advantage of them most and best, improving the economic situation of their families. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. there are studies that show that women have the capacity to participate in decision-making at the economic level. there are studies that show that companies that have women on their boards have better results. let us also follow the example of norway, which has already been mentioned.
i would also like to thank all the organisations in the sector which, by their firm action in defence of fishermen and their workers, have contributed to this report summing up a set of proposals which we believe will help to find the solutions required by the serious socioeconomic crisis facing the sector. we hope that the european parliament will support the result achieved in the vote tomorrow. the situation was described by representatives of the sector a few days ago in a meeting with a delegation from the european parliament's committee on fisheries in the algarve, which could be summed up as follows: the fisheries sector is facing a serious economic and social crisis which has deepened over the years. this difficult situation has been aggravated by the increase in production costs, particularly the impact of the increase in fuel prices, combined with the stagnation of prices at first sale, which has put the financial viability of many companies at risk and seriously affected the salaries of crew members, whose salaries depend on the yield of catches and, to a large extent, on the cost of fuel. the common fisheries policy has been inadequate, promoting a steady and significant loss of vessels and the abandonment of thousands of fishermen in a sector considered strategic in some member states. the common fisheries policy pursued to date must be reversed so that it recognises the specific characteristics of each country's fisheries and its right to develop fishing activities in a sustainable way by recovering fisheries resources, with a primary focus on feeding the population, full employment and improving the social conditions of workers, as well as the sustainability of businesses. the sector is moving forward with concrete measures. emergency measures to deal with the sharp rise in fuel costs, such as the creation of the guarantee fund, transitional direct support for the price of fuel, diesel and petrol, and de minimis aid, increasing their value. a set of measures to ensure the income of fishermen, in particular by setting the first selling prices, revising the current rules on the common organization of the market in fishery products and promoting studies to identify measures to improve the value of fish, with a view to channelling added value to the productive sector without penalising the consumer. support for the modernisation and renewal of national fishing fleets, with the consequent definitive abandonment of the indiscriminate culling policy. the promotion of a specific support programme for small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries. this is the set of measures put forward by the sector during the visit of the european parliament. the european commission, while describing the situation in the sector as serious, has pointed to measures which are far from providing an answer. the difficulties facing the fisheries sector today are mainly rooted in the problem of the cost structure, which is exaggerated in relation to the income obtained. these costs have been suddenly aggravated by the skyrocketing fuel prices, and the solution of reducing fishing effort and fleet adequacy, i.e. reducing the fleet, is not the solution to the problem of improving the economic situation of the sector, which is mainly related to the problem of balancing declining incomes and rising operating costs in the sector. similarly, if we assume that successive fishing restrictions have contributed, though not the only reason, to the worsening of the economic situation of the sector, it is not to be understood that they are accepted or considered as measures to improve the economic situation of the sector. as the sector has stressed, extraordinary situations require extraordinary measures, in particular the use of all the possibilities and financial margins of the community budget for the current year, all the more so since it is a matter of a common community policy - the common fisheries policy - which, in a coherent way, should bear the financing of its costs, in particular within the framework of the european fisheries fund. i would like to conclude by reiterating that the fisheries sector has potential and a future and that it should not be set in opposition to aquaculture. new priorities require more and new means.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, the energy-intensive sector of fisheries is particularly affected by the rise in fuel prices, which is a problem that accentuates an economic situation that is already sometimes quite precarious. a challenge such as that facing the sector requires solutions which do not deepen the problems by attempting to respond to them with uniform regulations, detached from their practical control or from the specific conditions of their field of application, but which take account of the particular realities in their complexity. while it is true in general that we must move towards a reduction in fishing effort, the use of more selective gear, and the positive discrimination against small-scale local fishing, which is better able to preserve the freshness of fish, it is no less true that, in particular, these general objectives may have to be achieved by increasing the power of engines and the size of vessels, which provide more comfort and safety at work, as well as by diversifying the focus to activities such as tourism. the existence of a highly detailed, centralised legislative network, unconnected with the control of its practical application and its real impact on the situations it aims to serve, favours the proliferation of illegal, unreported and unregulated catches within and outside the community area, widening the gap between the virtual world depicted by the legislation and the real world of the european fish market. it is essential to achieve greater decentralisation of the cfp and to ensure greater local involvement of fishermen, their representative organisations and fishing communities in this policy and in improving fisheries management. as the fao handbook for the conservation of fishery quality points out, the first principle of a sustainable fisheries policy is to avoid the tragedy of the commons, that is, that what has no known owner, be it buffalo or fish, everyone will rush to exploit and ultimately destroy. and that is why only through the responsibility and direct commitment of fishermen can we think of improving their economic situation in a sustainable way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i welcome the commission communication on the improvement of the economic situation in the fisheries sector, which is in itself a sign that something needs to be done for the sector, with emphasis on the weakest part of the cfp. the cfp aims to ensure and maintain a balance between the economic and social development of fishing communities and the sustainable management of fisheries resources. it must be borne in mind that in both aspects of this common policy, fishermen and their communities are in many cases in a situation as or more fragile than that of many of the threatened species. i do not mean that we should forget the sustainability of resources for the sake of the economic viability of the sector, because that would be damaging to the environmental sustainability and the future of these fishermen. the commission's communication, however, is inconsistent with the diagnosis it makes of the solutions the sector needs, which are largely contained in the report by mr pedro guerreiro, whom i congratulate. the balance between the two aspects of the cfp requires that we focus on the promotion of selective crafts, small-scale fisheries, aquaculture and scientific research, but also on socioeconomic support. this support must compensate for the permanent loss of income resulting from the disappearance of jobs and the decrease in income resulting from recovery plans or from deep changes in profitability conditions caused by external factors. this is precisely the case in the present distressing situation resulting from the increase in fuel. the commission should do more in this area. similarly, some member states should make better use of existing possibilities. the formation of fish prices also needs to be considered. it is unacceptable that fishermen should be mere price takers, whose prices are increased tenfold between the first sale and the consumer price. we must think about supporting producer organisations, but also about the legislative frameworks that exist to create more justice and protect those at the bottom of the whole sector.
madam president, commissioner, we all agree on the economic and social importance of the fisheries sector in the european union and on the commission's diagnosis of it, which confirms its critical situation. nor is there any doubt about commissioner borg's sensitivity to the problem and his willingness to seek to mitigate its consequences by the means currently available. however, the responses advocated by the commission are clearly insufficient and are considered disappointing by the sector, especially small-scale coastal fishing, which has the greatest social impact. if there were any doubts, they would have been totally dispelled by the missions which the committee on fisheries carried out this year to greece, italy, france and, in recent days, portugal. the commission communication and the report under discussion, whose rapporteur i also congratulate, have the merit of warning against an unsustainable situation which cannot continue. we cannot have a common policy to communitize restrictions and then nationalise the solution of problems 'à la carte' according to the possessions of each member state. the problem of fuel costs, to which several members have already referred today, and of the stagnation of fish prices and the renewal of the fleet without increasing capacity must be dealt with swiftly by the community. i therefore hope that parliament will approve the report and that the commission will follow up its practical implementation.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs miguélez ramos and the fisheries committee for the opinion on the commission report on the operation of the so-called shark finning regulation. i am pleased to note that the rapporteur praises the clarity and conciseness of the commission’s report and shares the view that this regulation is achieving its objective. let me assure you that the commission is committed to monitoring the application of this regulation to ensure its proper implementation, including of member states’ obligations regarding control and reporting. the commission will also continue to promote the prohibition of shark finning in international forums. in addition, the commission will continue in its endeavours towards the adoption of measures based on scientific information and other considerations within regional fisheries management organisations. i would also recall that the prohibition of shark finning practices is not the only way to ensure a sustainable fishery for these species. a more comprehensive set of management measures is required. we have already taken some measures in this respect. i refer, in particular, to special efforts to improve scientific knowledge and data collection, to establish catch or effort limits for certain species, including deep-sea species, to prohibit drift nets that may catch some large pelagic sharks and to control and limit fishing capacity. as rightly pointed out in parliament’s motion for a resolution, the commission has identified numerous actions to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond, including community plans of action for sharks and sea birds. my department is currently looking into the request for the presentation of a community plan of action by mid-2007. while it is too early to have a clear overview of the detailed work programme for 2007, it is clear that a formal, complete and detailed plan of action requires a comprehensive assessment of the situation and of the possible measures, together with an early consultation of all interested parties, which will take time and resources. the desired timeframe seems rather too ambitious, and setting too short a timeframe for preparation and consultation could even be counterproductive. i would prefer to be less prescriptive in terms of deadlines. however, i can assure honourable members that my department will undertake to complete the plan of action at the earliest possible date. returning to the report’s core concerns, i have taken good note of the proposed calls for the commission to present amendments to the shark finning regulation, especially with a view to reviewing the 5% fin weight versus live body weight ratio on the basis of a species-dependent approach, and to revise the possibilities for separate landings of fins and carcasses, as well as to report again on the operation of this regulation within two years. when deciding on this regulation, the council did not consider it appropriate to adopt a species-specific approach regarding the fin to body weight ratio. i think the reasons mentioned in the debate then are still valid now. a single 5% fin to live body weight ratio applicable to the whole shark-catch of a vessel is a realistic, feasible, controllable, simple and proportionate method of preventing shark finning practices from spreading. the commission’s report also confirms this. i am not, therefore, of the opinion that amendments to the regulation should be proposed at this stage. firstly, because the regulation was only recently adopted and is working well overall. secondly, because the commission believes it would be unwieldy to start revising the fin to body weight ratio or introducing some species-specific approach to the shark finning regulation without new measures to ensure sustainable shark fishing. the much broader exercise of preparing a community plan of action for sharks will necessarily include a reassessment of developments under the shark finning regulation and its possible need for review, especially on the basis of the national annual reports, which are available for all those interested. it is at this point, therefore, that we will be able to consider once more the situation with respect to body-fin ratio and make any recommendations accordingly. parliament’s necessary full involvement in a proposal for a plan of action will also provide another opportunity for parliament to be informed about and to play a role in developments on shark finning matters. the commission will continue to monitor the situation. you can rest assured that i am always ready to act and to present all supporting evidence if new information becomes available indicating significant changes in the situation. i am committed to advances in the area of shark conservation and other aspects of marine biodiversity, and will inform you in due time of the progress made. (applause)
i would also like to thank mrs miguélez ramos for her work and say that it is necessary to clarify and emphasise that since 2003 the practice of finning has been regulated in the european union and that sharks cannot be fished solely for the purpose of exploiting their fins. so this is a targeted fishery for a species like any other, which puts the issue of the sustainability of the resource on a par with what happens to other fish, so the question of feeding catches does not fall within the scope of this report but within the framework of quotas or even recovery plans according to the usual scientific reports. what we are discussing here is the fact that the commission's communication recognises the positive effect of the 2003 regulation and its implementation. what has been most in question in this debate, however, is the percentage of the weight of the fins in the total weight of the sharks. what the icat reports say is that the total utilisation of fins by the community fleet differs, for example, from the partial utilisation by the united states fleet, which is why it will be necessary to study the possibility of changing the percentage in the light of reports which already point to an increase of 5 to 6.5%. and that's what this is about. to ignore this reality is to confuse the full exploitation of a fishery with the preservation of a resource. we have to preserve the resource, but that's on another plane. in the plan we are discussing, the adaptation of the utilization rates to reality and to scientific reports will ensure that leaks are avoided. the compromise solution reached by the three largest political groups ensures that the european parliament understands that this is the way forward, thus responding to the studies already carried out by recognised bodies of which the european union is a part, and ensuring, on the other hand, that the conditions for compliance with the law are met, thus contributing to a truly sustainable and regulated fisheries.
in writing. the european commission intends to amend regulation (eec) no 2092/91 currently in force on the import of organic products in order to streamline the procedures for the recognition of imported organic products, but it does not go as far as necessary. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the proposal to protect consumers and national producers. the need to control products imported from third countries is therefore stressed, in order to ensure that the product has been produced in accordance with production standards equivalent to organic production in the european community and that there is reciprocity. it would not be fair to farmers and consumers in the european union if the same controls were not required as those required of farmers in the european community. it is also essential that, as a minimum, the competent national authorities are involved in the process of recognition of third country control bodies. however, the fight against fraud will only be effective if there is control and recognition by the national authorities of the importing countries.
in writing. the galileo programme - the european radio-navigation and satellite positioning programme - when used for non-military purposes and not integrated into the security apparatus, is in itself an important instrument which, in order to ensure the provision of a public service, can represent great opportunities for cooperation, scientific and technical progress and for the exchange and accessibility of information, while ensuring respect for the rights, guarantees and freedoms of citizens. this programme could help to end the dependence on the us-controlled gps system, which is managed by its military services, which even make it difficult to access and use it when carrying out military aggression against peoples and states. we therefore regret that the majority of the european parliament voted against the amendments tabled by our group, which rejected the use of the galileo programme for military purposes and stressed that the galileo programme should provide equal access for all users and that the public should be able to use the information available free of charge.
in writing. galileo is the community project par excellence for implementing the lisbon strategy. the european satellite radio navigation programme is a new technological challenge that will bring further growth to the european economy and business opportunities. we must therefore ensure that this is not just another project. this first european infrastructure, managed by the community, is of crucial strategic interest for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. in a europe populated by smes, this is the moment of great opportunity. the community institutions must therefore ensure their good governance. moreover, ensure transparent and effective rules for public-private partnerships and ensure that we exploit the full potential of this project. it is therefore essential to ensure that the full and timely exploitation of the project opportunities is achieved and this can only be done if we realise that this is the right way to go.
in writing. the tampere council set out an ambitious political programme for europe - to build a common european area in which the issues of freedom, security and justice are in perfect balance. the balance that was sought then is still too fragile today. what we are seeing is a security trend overtaking concern for human rights: the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration clearly dominate the agenda of justice and home affairs. the new hague programme for 2004 lacks a vision for the future. the problem of immigration calls for the community's decisionmaking method, the legitimacy that comes from the european parliament's intervention in the co-decision procedure and a binding charter of fundamental rights. immigration policy must be a humanistic, preventive union policy, geared to cooperation with the countries of origin. it requires a solidarity commitment between member states based on common duties, or it will not be a fair policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the eu's common immigration policy (rc-b6-0508/2006) because of the need for the european union to adopt a genuine common immigration policy and to remove all obstacles to the creation of a european asylum system that would make it possible to define common standards for the protection of the fundamental rights of immigrants and asylum seekers in the european union. the european union should adopt a cross-cutting approach to open up pathways for legal immigration and encourage the integration of migrants into host societies based on regular integration into the labour market, the right to education and training, access to social and health services, and effective participation of migrants in social, cultural and political life: on the other hand, it is essential to support the development of countries of origin in order to address the root causes of migration.
in writing. the resolution contains aspects which we regard as positive, such as the recognition of the current drama and the need for legal migration channels, effective integration and development plans in the countries of origin. however, we believe that it does not denounce the eu's security and repression policy, criminalising irregular immigration, promoting border buffer measures, the setting up of detention centres and the expulsion of immigrants. we are also against the creation of a common immigration policy, because it is not the appropriate answer to the questions and problems that arise, as the results of other common policies show. the reality of migration differs between the countries that are part of the eu and the decision on this policy must respect the sovereignty of each state, which obviously does not prevent cooperation in this field. what is needed is not a common policy but a policy and other measures that effectively protect the rights of immigrants - such as ratification and compliance, notably by portugal, with the un convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families - and tackle the root causes of immigration.
in writing. immigration is a sign of economic vitality and a factor in the entry of active and enterprising people. illegal immigration, on the other hand, is a mafia business, a threat to the lives of applicants and an incentive to the parallel and inhuman labour market. that is why measures such as extraordinary legalisations are good intentions with bad results. they're a small prize for illegal immigrants and a huge asset for the smuggling mob. if we want immigration to have a positive effect, we have to consider the absorption capacity of the market as the fundamental concept. but this can only be achieved with clear and workable rules that facilitate legal immigration and make illegal immigration impossible, and this is a problem of a european dimension. that is why i have rightly argued that the re-equipment of the armed forces must take into account the component of the protection of the external borders, which are common borders. finally, i do not believe that the solution lies in strengthening law enforcement alone. the way forward - against uncontrolled immigration, poverty and the threat of terrorism - is through the export of wealth, economic prosperity and our liberal democratic model.
in writing. the important report on eu-india relations covers a multitude of, sometimes contradictory, aspects. although it contains points which raise concerns which we share, the report is in line with the prospect of liberalizing world trade in the framework of the wto or through the proliferation of bilateral or multilateral free trade agreements, and in the framework of competition and coordination with the usa, which we clearly reject. the report advocates the so-called 'doha development agenda' and the progress of the currently stalled negotiations for the liberalisation of trade and markets worldwide. the report again stresses the eu's demands by urging india and the g20 to 'understand' (???) that 'a european proposal in the field of agriculture must be followed by a reasonable g20 proposal in the field of market access for non-agricultural products and services', which is unacceptable. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the initiative report in question has the important merit of reminding us of the importance for our future of a proper strategy in the relationship with india. the concept of brics is an important concept for understanding the current state of the world economy, but it cannot make us believe that brazil, russia, china or india are countries for which we should develop identical strategies. on the contrary, i did. our relationship with these countries must be reflected from a strategic point of view so that the result of globalisation, economic development and the growth of world trade are factors of prosperity for all - or for as many as possible, at least, which implies different strategies. a democratic and populous india is different from a non-democratic but populous china or our neighbour russia. if we want to be a successful project, one of our priorities must be to think about our future in the light of the development of these countries and to devise appropriate strategies for the relationship with each of them, the case of india being the most important. in geographical, political and economic terms, its situation deserves special attention, as it is expected to be an important ally in the future.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because, despite some contradictions, it has a positive view of women's involvement and the fight against discrimination, particularly in the field of international trade. however, we cannot fail to point out that we should go further in criticising the liberalization of international trade and its negative consequences for the people of the least developed countries, with particular emphasis on women, and that we should criticise in particular the action of the epp, which has sought to prevent a more progressive view of the struggle for women's rights. we should also have gone further in criticising the harmful actions of multinational companies which use women's work in one country while they cannot find another where they can make higher profits, without worrying about the consequences in worsening unemployment and women's living conditions.
in writing. with this vote the european parliament has confirmed the main proposals already unanimously approved in the committee on fisheries, with a view to improving the economic situation of the fisheries sector, which we consider to be positive. these are proposals that have long been put forward by representatives of the fishing industry to deal with the economic and social crisis they are facing, a crisis now aggravated by the sharp increase in the cost of fuel. we welcome the inclusion in the final text, on our proposal, of the definition of a clear priority for marine resources and fisheries, with adequate funding, in the seventh framework programme of the community for research, technological development and demonstration. we also welcome the fact that, despite pressure from members of parliament from the main 'net contributors' such as germany, the request to increase the funds for the european fisheries fund has been maintained, in a context of insufficient resources to deal with the implementation of the instruments of the common fisheries policy, as expressed in this resolution. it is now up to the commission to take initiatives to make them a reality. however, we regret the fact that the request for the creation of public insurance for the fisheries sector to deal with unforeseeable situations has been dropped, when this same parliament is asking for it for other sectors such as agriculture.
in writing. the report calls on the commission to bring the rules for shark fishing into line with the realities of community fisheries, particularly as regards the percentage of the limit weight - currently 5% - of fins in relation to the live weight of the catch. this limit, which has been transferred from the reality of the usa, does not apply to species fished by european union countries, in particular the blue whiting, which is the species mainly caught by the national fleet in azorean waters. we agree with the rapporteur in proposing that this limit be raised to 6.5%, in accordance with the existing scientific studies and the requests of several member states whose fleets are affected by the present commission impasse. this has already been referred to in iccat itself. in the portuguese case, 11 longliners are involved in the swordfish and pelagic fisheries, where the 5% ratio applies. i take into account, even in the amendments that have been tabled, that there is some contradiction between scientific and technical opinions, and we think that a technical forum should be held, with the participation of scientists and professionals in the sector, in order to reach a scientific consensus and clarify the need to change the level of the limit set and the degree of change.
mr president, the lahti agenda contains very important issues such as energy policy, illegal immigration, competitiveness and innovation. but it is inevitable that the issue of freedom of the press will also be addressed. democracy, freedom and human rights are the key themes of this important meeting, which is being hosted by president putin and which has been made all the more pressing by the murder of the russian journalist anna politkovskaya. the european council must demand from president putin that those responsible for this heinous crime be punished. at a time when europe is facing the effects of climate change and high oil prices, there is an urgent need to improve energy efficiency and reduce dependence on fossil fuels for the sake of the economy, the environment and the quality of life of european citizens. the european union must diversify its energy sources and suppliers, giving priority to renewable energy sources, in order to comply with the kyoto protocol. the theme of innovation linked to competitiveness makes perfect sense to the finnish presidency and to my country, portugal. innovation to increase competitiveness is one of the ways outlined in the lisbon strategy presented by the portuguese presidency in 2000. the first meeting of national coordinators of the lisbon agenda a few days ago presented eight examples of good practice, selected by the european authorities. portugal deserved a fair highlight for setting up the company at the time.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for its valuable contribution during this discussion today. i can assure you that i will convey the message to the prime minister for him to look at during the preparations for the lahti summit. it is of course true that innovation and competitiveness have been on the european agenda for some time, but it is now our aim to turn this discussion into action, at least to open the door to the way forward. action is what is really needed at the moment. in the framework of the strategic partnership that we have with russia, all the issues can and will be discussed. i am sure that the very important points you have raised during this discussion will also be discussed during the meetings. i am very happy that you will have an opportunity to continue the discussion on the results of the lahti summit with the prime minister of finland later this month, on 25 october in strasbourg. i thank you very much and look forward to having some ‘deliverables’ from the lahti summit.
president of the commission. mr president, first of all let me welcome the broad support that was given for the agenda for innovation, for a european institute of technology, for a common energy policy and for a european immigration policy. but let me tell you that we need to deliver that message outside this room, because, as some of you said, there are still some misunderstandings. let me just mention the eit. it is interesting that everybody agrees that in europe we are not doing enough in terms of innovation; there are not enough links between the universities and the research centres and the world of the economy, business and practical projects. but when an idea comes to change that situation, immediately there is resistance. it is amazing! everybody then says, ‘but we have excellent universities!’ – of course we have excellent universities! but if we have excellent universities, why are we falling behind the americans and others? something is wrong. the status quo is not an option. we cannot go on with business as usual. i know we have excellent universities. universities were created in europe. they are a european creation, but we are not taking advantage of the full benefits or the full potential of our european dimension. let us be frank: some of our universities are still very corporatist, very closed. we need a european dimension. even the biggest member states lack the dimension to promote the global culture we need now to face the challenges of this 21st century. therefore, the idea is network-based. it is not a huge bureaucratic institution; it is network-based, building on the principles of excellence, on what all excellent universities and excellent research centres are doing, but with a view to connecting businesses with research so that we can promote innovation. at the commission i met with the leaders of the most important european companies that are driving research in the world. i got great support for the idea and i could name some of the companies. two of those leaders in european business came from the united states, and they told me at the meeting that their biggest shock when they came to europe was to discover that, unlike in the united states where they have american institutions for the whole of america, in europe we do not have that. only now are we starting with the european research council. so we have great institutions to promote research in germany, britain, france and sweden. we have great things, but we are missing a european dimension. we are missing a european mission to give them the real tools they need to compete with the best. that is why i believe this is a great idea. i hope that, not only will it be supported in general, but that it will be supported when we come forward with practical proposals. that is why i hope to have your support when we come forward next week with a practical proposal on the eit, and i hope for your support when in january we come forward with a really ambitious energy package. my final point concerns coherence. the best way to negotiate with russia is from a coherent and unified position. if we want to be credible when we discuss matters with russia or other partners, we have to show them that we are able to have a coherent policy ourselves. we cannot discuss energy with them in a serious manner if we have 25 different energy policies. it would not be credible, let’s face it. the first thing to do if we want to be seen from outside as credible, is to put our own house in order and to have a real joint approach to energy. the same, of course, applies to other issues. but i strongly agree that the fight against climate change is a crucial element in our energy policy and we should recall that the european union is a key player in that field. we are, in fact, leading in the world. i can tell you that when we discuss this matter with our american friends, with our russian partners, or with the chinese or indians, we always put this question at the forefront of our negotiations. it is important to do what we can, but also to involve others in those efforts. but what all these issues show – from innovation to immigration, to energy, to the fight against climate change – is a strong argument for europe. in the age of globalisation, even the biggest member states do not have the means to tackle those challenges. so if you want a strong europe, we are going in the right direction. a strong europe is not bureaucratic, but has a common approach to those issues. we should also speak with one voice on human rights, and i hope that this is the message which comes out from lahti: the european leaders may come from different political and ideological backgrounds, from different national situations, but they are ready to build a strong europe together and they are ready to speak with one voice to the outside world. that is what i am hoping for from lahti.
the next european council, in addition to important items on the international situation, includes on its agenda the so-called 'innovation policy', the proposal for a 'common energy policy' and 'illegal immigration', topics for which working documents have not yet been submitted. we'll get back to them at another opportunity. the debate on 'absorption', 'functional' or 'assimilation' capacities, i.e. enlargement (croatia and turkey) and institutional reform (composition of the commission and the ep and decision-making in the council) seems to be out of the question. that is, the debate on the definition of the rules of the game, always imposed by the great powers of the eu and in accordance with their interests. the debate on attempts to (re) impose the so-called 'european constitution', which has already been rejected, is also on the agenda. so far, and despite many attempts, contradictions persist as to what they think can be done at this time to resurrect the 'european constitution' (recauchuted or not). but they are preparing the ground, setting up think tanks, while they await the elections in france and the german presidency of the council, which will point the (pseudo-) 'way'. their hesitations are directly proportional to the consciousness of the workers and peoples as to the real meaning and class aims of the eu.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commissioner will be aware of the closure and relocation of many companies and the destruction of jobs in the footwear sector in portugal, which has increased unemployment and the risk of poverty for thousands of workers. the situation of the workers of the multinational c&j clark in castelo de paiva, who, three years after its closure and after many promises, are now without alternative employment, should be recalled. in other words, with the liberalisation of world trade, workers have been lost in numerous micro, small and mediumsized shoe companies in the european union. on the other hand, the people who have benefited from the rapid increase in footwear imports from third countries are not the so-called consumers but the large multinationals and the large importers and distributors who have accumulated fabulous profit margins, as has been acknowledged by the commission. if large international trade were really concerned about the interests of consumers, it could have long ago reflected this concern in a significant reduction in the selling price of the footwear it imports. the responsibility for this situation, commissioner, as we have been saying, should not be placed on third countries but on the european union and its policies to promote competition and to liberalise international trade, and on the maintenance of the value of the euro, which is detrimental to productive sectors such as footwear. the commission has already announced its intention last week to increase bilateral free trade agreements and to launch a new crusade for the liberalization of world trade. it is precisely this policy that must be called into question.
the european union has made a good decision, but a late one, by imposing an anti-dumping duty on imports of leather footwear from china and vietnam. but better late than never! it is not new that china and vietnam export a number of products to the world, including footwear and textiles, which benefit from strong state intervention at the source. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. these products also benefit from a total or almost total absence of social and environmental regulation, which accounts for a significant part of the production costs in the countries of the european union. the european shoe manufacturers know that they have to compete with firms that produce at lower wages and cannot accept that competition is distorted by this kind of intervention by exporting countries that sell the goods below the price of production itself. in my country, we call this a "battle". the european union has made a good decision, albeit belatedly, but it has also made a complacent decision because what we see is a lack of will on the part of the authorities of these countries to change their behaviour and given their repeated insistence on unfair practices, i preferred the initial version of the sanctions which envisaged anti-dumping tariffs for a period of five years, rather than two years, as was finally decided. in conclusion, i would like to ask: given that the majority of the council that supported these measures was weak, only 13 of the 25 member states, will this split within the two continue? and if it does not, what will the european union do? commissioner, let me be very clear: i am not in favour of protectionist policies. i want everyone to play by the rules!
the advocate of free trade considers that only in absolutely exceptional circumstances, duly verified, should recourse be had to the adoption of a trade defence instrument such as 'anti-dumping' duties. but that is unfortunately the case here. china and vietnam have been engaging in particularly unacceptable trade practices in the footwear sector, in part because they add to the already numerous competitive advantages that these countries have. in doing so, these two states are violating a fundamental principle of free trade: the principle of loyalty. and that is why these measures cannot be seen as being against free trade but, on the contrary, must be seen as measures which are indispensable to safeguard free trade in the long term. we must therefore welcome the work that the commission has done in this area. it is important to stress, however, that european industry cannot rest on its laurels of modernisation by focusing on innovation and quality enhancement in order to increase its international competitiveness in the sector. this effort must be supported by the public authorities, while respecting the rules of free, fair and equitable trade. the adoption of the present measures cannot therefore be seen as an attempt to reopen the door to undesirable protectionism, but as an indispensable instrument for ensuring the fair and correct regulation of international trade.
the defence of production and employment with rights requires that the commission and the council pay more attention to the productive sectors, in particular industry, in each of the member states and not only take account of the interests of economic groups based on international trade. sectors such as footwear, textiles and clothing have been particularly affected by this disastrous policy of liberalizing international trade, particularly in the context of the wto. thousands of jobs were lost. in portugal alone, the shoe industry is characterised by the c&j clarks factories in arouca, castelo de paiva and vila nova de gaia, the rodhe factory in trancoso, ara in avintes, the reductions in the number of jobs at ecco and rodhe in santa maria da feira, and many others, particularly in the felgueiras area. but this policy has not only led to the loss of workers and numerous micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, but has also blocked the regional development of large areas, particularly in portugal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new barriers to trade.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would like to take this opportunity to convey the testimony of the committee on budgetary control, which, in at least two missions - one to thessaloniki and one to kosovo - was able to testify to the capacity, efficiency and innovation which it has represented in the framework of the community's external action to the european agency for reconstruction. it is unparalleled by anything we have seen in community action. it is a very good example of what can be done on the ground in conjunction with the local forces, and i think it would be a grave mistake to let it go and not use it in other circumstances. the european commission and european funds cannot simply be a gateway to the united nations or to ngos or to any other institution without any real capacity to administer community funds on the ground. this experience has been very valuable from this point of view and i would appeal to the european commission not to let it go to waste because it would be very bad for the whole of the european union.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the day of struggle of the portuguese workers and their trade union centre cgt-in, who are holding a general protest against the right-wing policies in portugal tomorrow, 12 october. among other things, portuguese workers are fighting against the government's proposals for social security to raise the retirement age and reduce pensions, they are fighting for the defence and increase of national production, for the creation of jobs with rights, for the defence of public services and a public administration at the service of citizens, for the right to collective bargaining, for the increase of wages and for a fair distribution of wealth. a final note, mr president, on the recent decision of the european court of justice in the cadman case concerning maternity/paternity leave and the calculation of wages, to state that it is totally unacceptable that this means and can be used to call into question the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', a principle which is enshrined in article 59 of the constitution of the portuguese republic.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i support the conclusion of these bilateral agreements for the participation in the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction of romania, bulgaria and turkey. these three countries are included in the list of the 13 candidate countries covered by the accession process and this type of agreement is intended to reinforce the pre-accession strategy, which allows them to be given authorisation to participate in community programmes and agencies. they are thus one of the main ways of strengthening the capacity of the applicant countries to apply the acquis communautaire, since they serve as a kind of preparation for these countries and their citizens to become familiar with the union's policies and working methods. these agreements stipulate conditions of participation in the emcdda similar to those governing the participation of norway. the advantages of these agreements will undoubtedly be numerous, but i see no problems with the arrangements for participation, either at technical level (they will have a link to reitox, they will share data, in full respect of community and national data protection rules) or at financial level (they will have to contribute to cover the costs of their participation), participating in the management board but without voting rights.
in writing. the ep has consistently rejected all initiatives put before it when consulted on detailed matters relating to europol. we find ourselves in that situation once again. i therefore support the rapporteur's position, mr claude moraes, that we should reject both the initiative on the amendment of the staff regulations for europol and the initiative on the adjustment of their basic salaries. i fully understand the need for europol to make internal adjustments, but there is no point in parliament having a say since, as an intergovernmental institution, parliament plays no relevant role in the administrative decision-making of this institution. we have supported numerous initiatives to extend europol's mandate and give it operational powers, helping to make europol an effective instrument in the fight against organised crime. but we have also been insisting on the need for this process to be accompanied by measures to ensure democratic and judicial control. i therefore hope that the commission will soon present a proposal to integrate europol into the eu institutional system, and that the europol convention should be replaced by a council decision, in which the structure, working methods, areas of activity and tasks should be defined in co-decision.
in writing. although the council's common position on a proposal for a directive on the patentability of inventions involving computer programs was rejected by a large majority (648 votes) in the european parliament in july 2005, the european commission relaunched the debate on the future of the patent system in the european union in january this year, thereby circumventing the outcome of that vote, which in turn resulted in a large mobilisation and popular opposition. the central issue is the attempt to create a european organization for patent litigation and a european patent court whose decisions would supersede those of the national courts of each member state. this court would be under the authority of the national representatives who sit on the board of the european patent office and who would be responsible for appointing judges. in recent years, the institute has granted hundreds of patents, for example on software, which some countries consider invalid. with the loss of sovereignty, national courts could not rule against patents. the resolution adopted today, which we voted against, reaffirms that patenting ideas and knowledge and hindering intellectual freedom, technological innovation and the competitiveness of the european economy itself is unacceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the first part of paragraph 71 of the jeggle report for the following reasons: 1. bullfighting is a centuries-old tradition, rooted in different regions of different eu member states, with different characteristics, and in the portuguese case, the killing of the bull was for the first time prohibited in 1836; 2. bullfights are responsible for the existence of the bullfighting. without them, this species would have long since become extinct, since its rearing is of no economic interest for meat or milk production; 3. this does not mean that the bullfighting spectacle and the tradition associated with it should not evolve and adapt to the moral values of each historical moment, in this case aiming, as soon as possible, at the elimination of any physical suffering of animals. there are now forms of sport with a high sporting status that have evolved from violent traditions, such as fencing, for example, which does not require the practitioners to be physically harassed to be practiced today. the iron bar may well be replaced by an electronic stick whose contact with the animal produces the same spectacular effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. since animal protection and welfare are important, and since the quality of human life is also linked to food safety and the quality of animal products, account must be taken of specific traditions and cultures. we support a number of ideas in the report, including: the protection of animals is a sign of humanity; extending the scope of european animal welfare policy beyond farm animals; taking account of the regional and environmental specificities of the european union; advocating a cross-cutting animal welfare policy that includes legislation, vocational training, financial support and scientific research. we welcome the reference to the need to take account of the size of farms and the additional costs of animal protection, and to compensate farmers, especially small and mediumsized farmers and family farmers, for the financial losses incurred in implementing animal welfare measures. as regards bullfighting, we disagree with the rapporteur's position, since it is not right to include everything in the same plan. for example, it is not correct to consider rope bullfighting in the azores on the same level as death bullfighting, although these also have to be understood in the context of local cultures and traditions that may evolve into new practices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the epp amendment which provided for the deletion of the word 'bull' from paragraph 71 of the jeggle report. i voted this way because it is important to ensure the survival of the bullfighting bull, which is guaranteed by the bullfighting institution. however, i am disgusted by the spectacle of bullfighting as it is practised at the moment in portugal and other eu countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed. as with other aspects of the daily life of our societies, bullfighting will have to evolve in such a way as to lose the barbaric characteristics that have inherited and still distinguish it. no aspect of collective life should be immune to the progress and evolution of sensibilities. in this respect, this resolution should serve as a warning to those who reject any change in the bullfighting system: it is imperative that this activity evolves rapidly to a situation where it is no longer dependent on the suffering of animals. otherwise, my country, portugal and the eu must take drastic measures. the way a society treats animals reveals more than just its attitude toward them. it reveals the degree of civilization, humanity and progress at which it stands.
in writing. this owninitiative report is flawed for two reasons. the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. since the minimum requirements for membership of the european union are not at issue, i do not think that the community institutions should comment on this matter. moreover, the temptation to try to impose on one member state, by means of community 'legislation', the cultural traditions and values of another member state, or the particular view that any of them has of the cultural traditions or values of others - which, moreover, involves an arrogant and totally unacceptable attitude - is an undesirable method and practice. regardless of what opinion we have of the traditions in question. let us leave to the european union what should be community, and let us leave to the member states what should be their responsibility by nature.
in writing. the report has one objective: to assess and promote reforms in the professional services sector by deregulating and eliminating all obstacles to competition. moreover, the objectives of total deregulation and strengthening competition set out in the kok report of november 2004 and included in the 2005 review of the lisbon strategy were met. it is also part of the process of liberalising the services sector and creating an internal market for services, as proposed in the so-called bolkenstein directive. in this sense, there is a tendency to regard self-regulating organizations of the liberal professions as obstacles to the free provision of services. we agree that some of these services are in the public interest and should be considered as public goods, and that there should be rules to ensure the quality of the service and to ensure the protection of users/consumers. but this cannot call into question the right of the states to regulate these activities at national level or to allow self-regulation by professional organisations. the legitimacy of their drawing up regulations, based on traditional, geographical and demographic particularities, or other special regulations (for example on advertising) must be guaranteed.
in writing. the proposal to conclude an association agreement and a free trade area between the eu and mercosur is part of the current drive to open up markets to competition at world level, particularly in the context of the current impasse in the wto. the report makes explicit the eu's ambition to dominate latin america - particularly the mercosur countries - in relation to the ftaa, while at the same time not calling it into question. what are the contradictions? the ep also calls for the introduction of a single currency for all sectors, including the so-called 'singapore issues' (investment, competition, public markets and trade facilitation). moreover, this majority is proud to point to the eu as a model of integration for latin america. we believe that the liberalization of markets calls into question the sovereignty of peoples and (some) states over their resources and over the definition of the path to their development. with the liberalisation of world trade, workers are under pressure on wages and labour rights, the vast majority of small and mediumsized farmers and smes are being challenged, the interests of large multinationals and the concentration of capital are being promoted. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. as history teaches us, trade is an effective factor in promoting good relations between peoples and economic development. that alone would be a good reason for wanting and seeking an agreement with mercosur - as i have had the opportunity to advocate both in public interventions and in political initiatives before the commission. but to the reasons given are added others, of historical and cultural proximity, which make our efforts in this area even more justified. we think in particular of brazil or the very strong portuguese community in venezuela. the recent accession of venezuela to the agreement also gives it a new dimension in foreign policy, since it is not only an oil producer but also a country to which the european union must pay particular attention. the potential for progress and economic development in this agreement is enormous, and that is why, insisting on a subject which i have followed, i join the rapporteur in the hope that the commission will do everything possible to make the creation of this enormous economic area feasible.
the following are one-minute speeches on important political issues.
since i do not yet have the information requested, i will try to find out from the president's office.
this point is closed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to draw your attention to five points, the first of which is institutional in nature: the absurdity of the legislative process. we have three different legal documents with two different procedures (co-decision in the regulations and consultation procedure in the decision). the three documents refer to the same reality. there are no three schengen information systems. there is one, which we are legislating on with different legal systems. it's a nonsense we have to enforce. if we had a european constitution, we would not be in this absurd situation. it was a complex legislative procedure which required a high degree of cooperation from all sides. i would like to publicly thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but particularly mr lax and mrs mastenbroek and mrs kaufmann, for their constructive cooperation and for the fact that they worked under enormous pressure to try to get us to a first reading agreement. the second note relates to my assessment that this is a good result for europe. it's a good result because we have more security and better data protection. we're also more strict. biometric data allows for better identification of individuals, allowing for a more reliable link between the person and the identity document, i.e. reinforcing security standards. also because there's intelligent alert processing, which we call alert interlinking, interconnection, which allows a police officer to distinguish a petty theft, a petty crime, from an act that may be connected to a criminal network or a set of actions that require more sophisticated security responses. we are not only managing information more intelligently, but we are also giving greater security to law enforcement officers, also because we are contributing, with the three documents we are going to vote on, to making controls at the external borders more effective and to making movements within the community area more secure. thirdly, i think this is a good result for the new member states. the community has a legitimate desire to give its citizens the feeling that they are full citizens who have the same rights of free movement as other community citizens. that is why we cannot delay the legislative process. it is essential that there is an agreement at first reading and, by achieving this agreement, we will be in a position to adopt the legal basis by the end of 2006, as we have committed ourselves to. fourthly, mr president, i believe that this is a good result for parliament because we have achieved a great deal in our struggles, some of which i would like to highlight: the community's management of the central system, subject to the democratic control of the european parliament and the judicial control of the court of justice (a community agency, created in co-decision with our parliament, is to be set up within five years); the fact that there is greater harmonisation of alerts on persons in the schengen information system for the purpose of refusing entry into the schengen area (the commission is invited, within three years, to present initiatives to achieve a higher level of harmonisation); the fact that we store european arrest warrants in the central system of the sis; the fact that we use biometric data as a field of research only after drawing up a report to be submitted to the european parliament and on which the parliament will give its opinion; the fact that the data protection rules and the rights of individuals in the system have been clearly strengthened; the fact that monitoring has been carried out at both national and european level, in order to increase transparency and reporting obligations in relation to the overall functioning of the system. the fifth and final point, mr president, is to give the council a word and to thank the commission. i would like to thank the commission and in particular vice-president frattini, who has always stood by parliament throughout this process and - i would like to stress this - has maintained a very close convergence of views between the commission and parliament. i would like to thank the two presidencies, the austrian and the finnish, for the great work they have done in this process. i would like to thank in particular the finnish minister of the interior and current president of the jha council, kari rajamäki, and his entire team, and in particular the chairman of the schengen working group, for their commitment and personal involvement. the work was very intensive and, in my opinion, it has been successful, both in the legislative solutions we have found and in the institutional commitments we have made, such as the presidency's making every effort to adopt the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar by the end of the year. mr president, i would like to say, however, that the council has not always acted correctly. the council has not honoured the commitments it made at the informal high-level trialogue in strasbourg in may and has forced the austrian presidency to suffer a major defeat. i hope that the council will not do the same with the compromise reached in brussels at the trialogue on 26 september. i say this because - despite the fact that we reached an excellent agreement at the trilogue on 26 september - 48 hours, that is to say two days before the vote on the compromise text in the committee on civil liberties, the council, on the initiative of a member state, wanted to open the schengen information system to the secret services of the member states. it is important to say that, in substance, this proposal makes no sense. we cannot on the one hand increase the requirements for the protection of personal data (which we have done in the compromise text) and on the other hand open up access to member states' structures which, by definition, cannot be subject, in whole or in part, to the data protection authorities: it's a paradox that doesn't make sense. it is also not logical for procedural reasons that two days before parliament votes on the text which was the subject of a compromise in the trilogue with the presidency and vice-president frattini, it should want to amend that text. it is not within 48 hours that you change a negotiation and that you change a commitment. there must be loyalty and good faith in the relationship between the european institutions. the president of the european parliament honours his word. we are ready to vote on the text which we have been able to obtain after months of long and arduous negotiations. i hope that the council will also honour the commitment it has made and that the new second generation sis will be put into operation as soon as possible, with accuracy, quality and security.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou. we all agree that a european immigration policy must take account of the gender dimension and the situation of women in the various member states, since they are victims of a double discrimination: sexual and ethnic, as has already been said, and are also discriminated against in the host societies and within their own community. the participation of immigrant women in all aspects of the social life of the host country is essential to lift them out of isolation and enable them to contribute to the integration of the younger generations. to do this, however, it is necessary to remove some barriers, starting with the language barrier. in certain immigrant communities women not only face marginalization, but are also forced into forced marriages and subjected to humiliating and cruel practices such as genital mutilation, and, as commissioner frattini has stated, are victims of crimes of dishonor. it is for the member states to combat by all means these criminal practices, which must be considered as justifying grounds for an asylum application.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, that's a long way from being the case. the european institutions cannot close themselves off to a universe of rules and regulations and ignore the way reality behaves. that is why this report on the recovery of community funds is based on a concrete example, namely the one where the amount to be recovered is the largest, estimated at almost 100 million euro. the gravity of the facts is even greater. this is a crime committed by a criminal organisation which has had the collaboration of many european companies and which, thanks to the investigation and cooperation of the italian authorities, has been reported in detail to the european authorities. the investigation carried out by the guardia di finanza into the smuggling of butter by companies controlled by the camorra of naples, its adulteration with bovine sebum, vegetable oils and the chemical lipostrol, the sale of tens of thousands of tonnes of the final product to various european companies and, finally, the use of this product for the fraudulent use of export refunds and sales subsidies for pastry products, was transmitted in due time to the community and national authorities concerned. after seven years of italian research, the conclusion we can draw is this: in one of the member states involved, the authorities only decided to open an investigation four years after the italian initial report, as no part of the estimated €40 million missing has yet been recovered. in another member state the investigation has not yet developed, and thus none of the more than eur 50 million missing has been recovered. in a third member state the problem was considered to be purely administrative and the fines imposed were reduced to almost symbolic amounts. outside italy, where dozens of arrests for murder, illegal possession of weapons and criminal association have been made on national initiative and where complex legal proceedings are still ongoing, there is no realistic expectation that in the various other countries involved anyone will be convicted or community money recovered, all pointing to the whole process falling into a statute of limitations. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. while the community and national authorities are acting with such a lack of zeal and coordination in the face of a crime of this magnitude, i have witnessed numerous cases where, under the discretionary powers given in the name of the recovery of community funds, honest farmers are victims of compulsory refund procedures which sometimes put them in misery, without any substantive reason and for procedural reasons which are not always true. for them, the presumption of innocence, the right to be informed of the charges against them, proportionality and the guarantee of adequate means of defence are all dead letters. the point is that article 280 of the treaty is being ignored. the cooperation between the commission and the member states to protect the community's financial interests is a fiction. in these circumstances, whether through a redefinition of eurojust's functions, the creation of a european prosecutor or any other effective mechanism, the situation must be radically changed. we need a european initiative to make cooperation in the field of justice for the protection of the community's financial interests a reality and not a fiction, as we have seen in this case, which was the largest of the community's finances.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr papadimoulis on his report and the commission on its initiative. the european union has developed a number of legal mechanisms for preventing and responding to natural disasters. there are, in fact, several resolutions of the european parliament to that effect. i myself was rapporteur for a report on the european strategy for responding to natural disasters, initiated by the committee on the environment, in which i argued for the need for the union to have more rapid and effective instruments for responding to major emergencies. the experience gained in recent years with forest fires in southern europe and floods in central europe has shown that the priority objective is to create early warning and detection systems for natural disasters, including earthquakes and tsunamis, which will enable citizens and their property to be protected. although the responsibility for managing natural disasters lies primarily with the country affected and the union's role is only subsidiary, the community civil protection mechanism set up in 2001 had few resources and powers, i.e. it did not meet the needs. the commission is therefore pleased to see that the proposal has been reformulated and improved, allowing for better coordination and faster action in support of the people affected. however, we need to go further and improve the model. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and that the commission should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
mr president, we know that breast cancer is not only the most common cancer in women, but also the leading cause of death in women aged 35 to 59. this means improving and intensifying information policy on mammography screening, implementing early cancer diagnosis programmes and strengthening support for breast cancer prevention research. that is why the questions we have put to the commission are important, and we hope that the member states will also give a positive answer to ensure that all women, regardless of their socioeconomic status, have access to all measures of prevention, screening, early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer, and to their reintegration into the labour market without any discrimination.
despite advances in diagnosis and treatment, breast cancer is still the leading cause of death in women between the ages of 35 and 55. in europe alone, breast cancer is estimated to be responsible for some 130,000 deaths a year. every two and a half minutes, a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer. it is essential that all women have access to information, prevention and appropriate treatment. screening programmes, through mammography, should be made compulsory in all member states. more information campaigns on healthy lifestyles are needed. prevention and treatment of breast cancer should also be a priority of the 7th framework programme for research, at a time when studies indicate that, in addition to genetic factors, environmental and lifestyle factors favour the development of breast cancer.
the process leading up to the vote on the second reading of the 2007-13 culture framework programme has been complex and drawn out. it was dragged out, in fact, mainly because of a series of setbacks, as we all know, in the financial perspective, and it was complex, both because of the nature of the subject matter and because of the interest shown in the discussion with the members of the committee responsible and the fund and by all the colleagues on the committees, whose opinions were also heard. all these interventions resulted in a very rich dialogue on the 2007-2013 culture framework programme, which has continued since the first reading and with both formal and informal intervention from the commission and the council, and has resulted in fruitful exchanges of views and consensus platforms which should be seen as extremely positive. as a result of all this, it can be said that most of the amendments adopted by this house at first reading have been incorporated in the common position. among these is the explicit reference to the importance of the cultural heritage common to europeans, both in the recitals and in the body of article 3, which sets out the objectives of the programme. this reference implies the constant contemplation in the achievement of its specific objectives that the programme consecrates this vast heritage, which has been deposited over the centuries in the most varied fields of human activity and which, being civilizational and cultural, is also necessarily identity-oriented. it was also possible to find terms for satisfactory modulation, both for the duration of the projects, which are planned to run for periods of 1 to 5 years, for the participation of cultural operators from a number of countries varying according to the nature of the projects, and for the budgetary allocations to each of the sectors concerned, in particular the allocation of more resources to cooperation measures, i.e. to projects of a smaller scale compared with those of a larger scale and multiannual cooperation. this will make it possible to take account of actions by small operators, which are usually closer to the citizens, while at the same time encouraging more important actions with greater visibility, involving more countries and lasting longer. in addition to all this, it is worth noting the provision for special actions of such a scale as to make european citizens aware of the cultural diversity of the member states, some of which have already been established, such as the european capitals of culture, as well as support for european bodies active in the cultural field, which function very much as ambassadors of european culture and many of which in the past have been given essential support by the european parliament. if the rules are changing as a result of the financial regulations in force and these bodies now have to apply for the support they need under the culture programme 2007-2013, it is absolutely essential that they are not forgotten and that they can continue to develop their action. finally, the commission and the council hope that the multidisciplinary openness of the programme will make it possible to ensure its great flexibility and the reception of many innovative proposals. despite some reservations i expressed during the first reading debate, i sincerely hope that they are right. in this panorama of full interinstitutional understanding and cooperation, one negative note stands out, as is easy to see. i am referring to what cannot be overlooked, namely the very limited resources available for the culture programme 2007-13. the first reading gave me, the rapporteur and many of the other members who took part in the debate, the opportunity to draw attention to this point. we are facing a third generation programme which is intended to go further and be more effective than the previous ones, a programme which envisages a wider range of measures and a greater number of member states involved, a programme which involves more management and evaluation costs, and yet the budgetary allocation falls far short of all these ambitions, as it falls far short of what all those responsible, from the members of the commission to the ministers of culture, from the cultural agents and operators to the members of parliament, consider to be essential. i believe, however, that we should all hope that the culture 2007-2013 programme will be a great success and make a significant contribution to the construction of the europe we are all committed to.
in writing. the council's common position, which is the subject of this report, differs significantly from the commission's initial proposal of 2004, notably the inclusion of the 'nature and biodiversity' component, the objectives of which are, inter alia, to support the continued development and implementation of the natura 2000 network, including coastal and marine species and habitats, and in particular to achieve the objective of halting the loss of biodiversity in the community by 2010. the inclusion of this component in the life+ programme is in line with the position adopted by the european parliament at first reading in july 2005, which we regard as positive. however, despite our vote in favour of the programme and its objectives, we cannot but regret that the budgetary resources foreseen for the implementation of the life+ programme, covering the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013, are manifestly insufficient and are the result of the bad agreement for the 2007-2013 budgetary framework. moreover, they fall short of the commission's own estimate, which, it should be recalled, estimated the needs of the natura 2000 network at eur 6.1 billion per year, i.e. eur 3 billion for co-financing, and the amount proposed by the commission in 2004, and the guarantee of co-financing of the natura network through the structural funds will not allow all needs to be met.
in writing. the life+ programme and its predecessors are the main instrument for financing projects in the environmental field in the european union. the council, in a wrong and insensitive way, substantially reduces the budgeted amount. the european parliament reintroduces the value initially agreed, in accordance with the financial perspective, for the financing of the natura 2000 network for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. the amendment aims to ensure that european funds for the environment are not used for other purposes related to the life+ programme, such as staff costs, as it provides for delegation of project management to the member states, instead of the usual management by seconded staff. there is also an amendment to the commitment that if no agreement is reached at second reading, measures will be taken to continue funding for ongoing projects. for portugal this report is of great importance, since a significant area of the continental and outermost territory is part of the natura 2000 network, the financing of which is defined in this report. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mrs graça moura, on her position at second reading on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting the european parliament and council decision establishing the 'culture 2007' programme (2007-2013). i express my support in particular for the amendment to the common position concerning financial support for the actions referred to in article 8 (2) (d) of the decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'culture 2007' programme.
in writing. the civil protection mechanism was set up five years ago to facilitate the mobilisation and coordination of civil protection resources in the event of emergencies within or outside the eu. during 2005, more than 10 countries activated this mechanism to respond to emergency situations. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the mechanism in the light of experience gained since 2001, provide a legal basis for future community action in the field of civil protection and complement the emergency preparedness and rapid response instrument. this report includes the 'public health' dimension in civil protection. it also stressed the importance of solidarity between member states and a more effective european surveillance system. it also addresses the issue of effective land use and management in disaster prevention and the use of military means to prevent and respond to emergency situations. this mechanism is of great importance for the whole of europe and in particular for portugal, which is plagued every summer by serious problems of drought and fires, which fall within the scope of the proposed mechanism. the socialist group therefore supports the report by mr papadimoulis.
in writing. the report adopted today is positive overall and makes the response to emergencies more coherent and effective on the part of the european union and the member states, although we have some differences on some aspects. we know that the fundamental objectives of civil protection are the prevention of collective risks and the occurrence of major accidents or disasters resulting from them, and therefore the need to mitigate collective risks and limit their effects in the event of occurrence, to rescue and assist people and other living beings in danger, to protect property and other cultural, environmental and public interest assets and to support the restoration of normalcy in the lives of the people affected. we therefore welcome the possibility of focusing on studies, training, prevention and monitoring, and of encouraging the exchange of experience, in order to take advantage of the lessons, both positive and negative, of the interventions and to correct them. we also support the establishment of a dedicated and appropriate emergency communications network and the conduct of broad information campaigns, as well as the adoption of education and awareness-raising initiatives aimed at the public, especially the young.
in writing. it is well known that female immigration is steadily increasing in the european union, and now accounts for about 54% of the total number of immigrants, for a variety of reasons, notably economic reasons, family reunification, and seeking refuge and asylum. in general, women face numerous difficulties and multiple discriminations, which require a strengthening of public support policies, in particular social structures and services. it is particularly important that international conventions, including those on family reunification, are applied and that migrant women, irrespective of their irregular status, are guaranteed all human rights, including access to education for their children, the right to family benefits and health. in any case, we believe that immigrant women who enter a member state of the european union under family reunification should be guaranteed the possibility of obtaining a legal status independent of their spouse as soon as possible. we also believe it is important to ensure that immigrant women and young women, particularly those who are victims of physical or psychological violence, including forced or arranged marriages, are granted a residence permit and that all the support measures they need are taken.
in writing. the recovery of community funds which have been misused - and each situation needs to be examined - requires greater attention, particularly from the member states. consider the situation of relocation of companies which have used community funding for years or situations where public health is at stake, in particular in one or more member states, where cooperation between the different states and bodies should facilitate and improve a rapid recovery of the amounts concerned and prevent the companies or organisations involved from continuing to benefit from community funding. however, we cannot agree that this need, which is valid in itself, should be used to catapult another federalist advance, as proposed in the report, by suggesting the creation of a public prosecutor's office and a public prosecutor at eu level, which would in fact cement another step that would subordinate the sovereignty of the states.
it is not surprising that the european parliament's proposal for the community budget for 2007, representing 1.04% of the community's gross national income, although it improves both the european commission's proposal, which represents 0.99%, and that of the european council, which represents 0.98% in terms of the volume of payments, falls short in the first year of the agreed level in the financial perspectives, that is 1.06% of the community gni, which we consider already insufficient in itself to promote real economic and social cohesion, particularly in the face of the needs of an enlarged european union. as this is a stage in the negotiating process, we hope that, unlike in the past, the european parliament will at least try to ensure that the minimum amounts stipulated in the financial perspective for 2007 are respected as much as possible, and that these financial resources are put at the service of an effective policy of economic and social cohesion and of a genuine policy of cooperation and development. while we welcome the adoption in the committee on budgets of specific amendments tabled by us, we regret the rejection of other important proposals, such as the creation of compensatory measures to deal with the increase in fuel prices in the fisheries sector and the creation of a community programme to support small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing to respond to the specific problems of this sector, in line with previous positions adopted by the european parliament, or the increase in the budget for convergence in the european regional development fund to fully compensate the so-called 'statistical effect regions' such as the algarve, which suffered a cut of some 20% this year.
the question period is now over (b6-0437/2006). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 40 by mr robert evans (h-0809/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: overbooking of air tickets in the light of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1 laying down common rules for compensation and assistance to air passengers, will the commission consider adopting further measures to discourage overbooking by airlines?
question no 41 by mr michl ebner (h-0812/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of young people in chat rooms internet forums and chat rooms are mainly frequented by young people to exchange views quickly and simply. in principle, the use of new media is to be welcomed. at the same time, however, it is becoming extremely difficult to protect young people on the internet. anyone interested can register in a chat room, for which some personal data is required. however, it is often not possible to verify the accuracy of these data. children and young people cannot therefore know who they are dealing with. it would be possible, for example, for criminals to gain access to a chat room with fake data. does the commission intend to intervene in the protection of children and young people in chat rooms? do you have a strategy for how you intend to act against abusive practices in chat rooms frequented by children and young people?
question no 42 by mr paulo casaca (h-0827/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: stoning of seven women in iran according to amnesty international's mde 13/111/2006, seven iranian women, namely parisa akbari, iran eskandari, khayrieh valania, shamameh ghorbani, kobra najjar, soghra mola'i and fatemeh, are on the verge of being stoned to death in iran. despite repeated promises - often conveyed by the community authorities - of moratoriums or suspension of this barbaric practice by the iranian regime, news of women's convictions and executions has not ceased to grow since the european union began its 'human rights dialogue' with the regime. can the european commission explain the reasons for the total failure of the human rights objectives it announced for its policy of dialogue with the iranian regime? can the commission state what concrete steps it has taken to prevent the murder of these iranian women?
mr president, the iranian authorities did indeed promise a moratorium and did not comply. nothing that surprises us. but the problem i would like to put to the commissioner is why the commission insists on talking to the fanatical clique that is tyrannizing iran and not to the vast mass of iranians who think differently. i would advise you to read a book in your language, we are iran, which is a collection of many iranians who think very differently and with whom the commission should talk.
in the light of what my colleagues have said, i would like to know what the commission's position is on the abduction of pregnant women and young children as a means of silencing the opposition in iran. this is happening and it is an attack on women's rights and human rights. i would like to know whether the commission is aware of this and what its position is.
question no 43 by mr lambert van nistelrooij (h-0831/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on roaming on public mobile networks in the community, submitted by the european commission following the publication by the european commission of its draft regulation on roaming on public mobile networks in the community (com (2006) 382 final), it appears that the commission proposal contains little information on the consequences of the specific situation of inhabitants and businesses at the internal borders of the member states of the european union in terms of roaming costs. does the commission have information on the costs faced by the border regions of the european union? what measures does the commission intend to take to accommodate the specific needs of the inhabitants and economic activities of the eu's border regions?
question no 44 by mr stavros arnaoutakis (h-0840/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: use of the internet with broadband connections according to recent data from the european commission, namely the information society and media dg, only 13% of schools in greece have broadband internet connections. this puts greece last among the 27 countries of europe. computer literacy and use have become indispensable and connecting to the broadband network can be a basic tool for development and competitiveness, as the commissioner responsible, vivianne reding, stated on 29 september 2006. what does the commission intend to do to encourage member states, including greece, to introduce computers connected to broadband networks in schools? how does the commission intend to support measures to introduce computer media in schools and in institutions and bodies in remote regions, particularly in island and mountain regions?
question no 45 by mr jim higgins (h-0855/06) subject: european register of internet domain names can the commission inform how many applications for registration of .eu domain names were submitted to eurid until the start of the second phase of the start-up period? what is the average percentage of rejections in the eu as a whole and specifically the average percentage of rejections of applications from ireland? can the commission state its opinion on the reasons for the discrepancy between the figures corresponding to the eu average and those corresponding to requests from ireland? is the commission aware that the registration authority has not provided irish registrars with the means necessary to fully comply with the requirements for the submission of applications? if it acknowledges that there was a lack of information, does the commission consider that alternative dispute resolution is a fair method of solving the problems faced by irish applicants? finally, is the commission satisfied that the registration entity is currently making all the necessary information available to registrants?
question no 46 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0784/06) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: fair trade in response to the european parliament's july report on fair trade and development, the commission stresses that the european union must have a coherent and collective policy framework in the field of fair trade and commits itself to examining how the commission can support the different certification and assurance systems and help consumers to obtain accurate and transparent information. what other conclusions has the commission drawn on a policy to support fair trade in the european union? in particular, it should be noted that while fair trade distribution and labelling systems are well developed for food and drink products, this is not the case for clothing. it is cited, for example, that women in bangladesh can work 80 hours a week in textile factories for only 10 euros a month in the production of clothing sold at affordable prices in shops in the european union. how does the commission intend to work with ngos to help develop international standards and fair trade certification for garment production?
question no 47 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0790/06) subject: conversations on world trade between the european union and the united states could the commission make a full and precise statement on the current state of world trade negotiations?
question no 52 by mr bernd posselt (h-0807/06) subject: the introduction of the euro in sweden what steps does the commission intend to take to persuade sweden to adopt the euro in accordance with its obligations under the treaty? what effect does this negative example of sweden have on the respective debates in poland and the czech republic?
question no 53 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0823/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: accession to the euro area as you know, the new member states which joined the european union in 2004 committed themselves to the european monetary union. it has been observed in the past year that an increasing number of these new states are postponing their accession to ever more distant dates, often without even anticipating when they will be able to meet the convergence criteria. it is difficult to deny that, due to the rapid development of the economies of the new member states, some of the conditions laid down for the convergence criteria (in particular inflation) will not be able to be met in the near future. in this situation, it is unlikely that strict artificial measures likely to disrupt economic processes will be indispensable to reduce inflation. the candidate countries for the euro area greatly appreciate the consultations carried out by the commission, as they help eu member states to be able to meet the criteria required for accession to monetary union more quickly, without prejudicing the economic processes under way in these countries. can the commission indicate what additional action it intends to take in parallel with the consultations, since all indications are that for various reasons some member states will only be able to fulfil the conditions for joining the euro area very late, if they are strictly applied? how does the commission view the enlargement of the euro area in the long term? how will you react if some of the new member states try to delay the introduction of the euro beyond 2013?
question no 54 by mr gay mitchell (h-0846/06) subject: effects of membership of the euro area to what extent does the commission expect the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu to affect the euro area in the coming year?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we subscribe to the concerns and intentions of the europe for citizens programme and have therefore given it our agreement. the truth is that in this european union there has been no lack of europe for business and europe for the market. on the contrary, i did. we have had too little europe for citizens, too little support for a european citizenry with an active voice on the major issues of building our common space. there, decisions are timid, laws are scarce and support is almost invisible. and it's not this program that will change this reality. we support the programme, but we criticise its budgetary fragility: the 60% cut from the initial proposal is clearly excessive, but it does not escape the restrictive and residual rule which under-funds all programmes in the education, culture and youth sectors. chronic under-financing is not the result of a lack of resources, it is the result of a deliberate political choice about the kind of union the member states want to build, which was again revealed when the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 were adopted, at the expense of, among others, the cultural sector. there are no effective policies without adequate funding. there will be words and good intentions, but politics has to be much more than that. mr president, mr rapporteur, we agreed with you when you said that you preferred transparency in the allocation of funding to projects. these should be the result of clear criteria with open competitions and exempt juries. unfortunately, that has not been the case. we are pleased to see the option of gradually putting an end to the scandal of non-competitive funding for organisations which place themselves above fair competition and which still receive large amounts of permanent subsidies. this procedure is detrimental to the image of the union. the fact that these organisations often bear the names of important personalities who have made a career in the european institutions only aggravates the situation. i, who come from a southern country, can only look with pleasure and sympathy at the fresh northern air that blows from the north in this matter. finally, as regards the new funding line for memorials to dictatorships, i would like to express once again our total disagreement with the criteria used. the exclusion of memorials to the dictatorships which for decades oppressed various peoples in southern europe shows a lack of respect for the thousands of victims of these dictatorships. without the victory over the southern fascisms, the borders of the european union would be very different today and its territory would be smaller. the exclusion of these dictatorships, of this memory, sends the wrong message to the citizens, that there are dictatorships whose memory cannot be forgotten and dictatorships that are less bad or even acceptable. it's a wrong signal to the world, too. the pragmatism of dictatorships with double standards poisons and discredits the european union's own foreign policy. it would have been preferable, instead of a mediocre and petty criterion which only looked at the scarcity of funds, a criterion based on clear democratic principles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurobarometer data are too worrying. most european citizens are not familiar with the institutional system of the union. the role of the european commission is perceived as vague or very vague. the council is practically unknown as an institution. the perceptions of the citizens are extremely confused. many are unable to express an informed opinion on europe. however, there is a common feature: citizens demand more information and choose television as the preferred medium for this information. we see that political europe is weakening into a theoretical or a soft citizenship, a vague sense of belonging. europe is seen more as an abstraction than as a significant reality of our way of life. what is desired is not a theoretical or a soft citizenship, but a concrete and strong european citizenship, a sense of loyalty and of identification of europeans with a community whose destiny lies in universal values. without that sense of loyalty and identification no political project can endure. citizenship is the greatest challenge for a post-national society such as the european one. european citizenship is a product of reason, not a product of tradition. it has to be built, it doesn't just come out. we are facing a new political time, a time of sharing, of new forms of governance. truly, a time of turning from the sovereignty of states to the sovereignty of the people. but then, what is the irony in this that politics does not wake people up to a project that puts them at the center? the citizens for europe programme does not require adequate budgetary support or a strategy of intensive information. forms of institutional publicity (especially on television) showing the institutions and the programme of europe cannot be postponed. explaining europe is necessary to form a feeling of europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the increase in international trade over the last few years, which has led, among other things, to increased competition, has led many countries to resort to trade defence instruments as a means of protecting their markets. it is therefore not surprising that we are seeing a rise in a number of situations where anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures are being adopted. european exports, as the report now under review clearly shows, have on several occasions been the target of such measures by third countries. these cases have been increasing in a worrying way. the traditional countries are now joined by some of the new players in international trade relations. this phenomenon, which can cause significant damage to various sectors of the european economy, must therefore be tackled seriously. a serious approach would, of course, require a correct and strict separation between cases in which the use of these instruments is strictly the result of the legitimate application of the principle of loyalty in commercial relations and cases in which their use is no more than a legal device to illegitimately conceal genuine protectionist intentions, in the worst sense of the word. that distinction can be made with complete clarity only if the emphasis is on enhancing transparency in the handling of proceedings leading to the assessment of the lawfulness or unlawfulness of the use of trade defence instruments, thus seeking to ensure full compliance with the rules and case-law of the world trade organisation. the commission should therefore endeavour to contribute to the improvement of these procedures, thus helping to discourage the misuse of these instruments. the commission's support to member states and european industry in trade defence cases brought by third countries is also important. this support is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are naturally less prepared to deal with such situations. finally, we believe it would be useful if the commission were prepared to take an active part in joint work within the wto in order to carry out a balanced review of the provisions governing the adoption of trade defence instruments in the interests of enhancing multilateralism. however, in this debate, it should not be forgotten at any time that the european union is already the most open trading area in the world and that europeans also have legitimate interests to safeguard.
it is worrying that the european institutions are increasingly underestimating the social consequences of this acceleration of neoliberalism, which not only keeps unemployment, poverty and social exclusion high, but also increases precarious and low-paid work, trying to make the so-called 'flexi-security' mean forcing workers to give up their fundamental rights and accept increasingly precarious jobs. the measures being put into effect and those being announced, such as the liberalization and deregulation of services and the dismantling of public services, are emptying the concept of the european social model, which deserves our vehement opposition. this is why protests against these policies are growing, as happened in lisbon on 12 october, with the grand demonstration organized by the cgtp, the largest since the 1980s, with about 100,000 workers. do you not think it is time to take account of these just indignations?
president of the council. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for this debate, which has shown that parliament too has a very coherent tone in its main lines, and that this is in full agreement with the european council and the commission. in this respect, i believe that the union can easily find its basic line in its external energy policy. it is worth remembering that we only started the debate on external energy relations at the european council level last march at the dinner of the austrian presidency summit. we came to the conclusion that the union also needs an external energy policy. finland, as the next presidency, was given the task of drawing up this external energy policy together with the commission, and that is what we are doing. the commission prepared a good paper for the lahn meeting and we spent about three hours at the lahn lunch discussing this line so thoroughly that both president barroso and i had the right to speak on behalf of the whole group when we met president putin that evening. we will define this external energy policy in the coming months as the union's policy, not only towards russia but towards all our partners and all third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i saw it myself. i feel it. i also agree with the demand that we must show in practice that we are also doing something. the next important step will be for the council to reach agreement in the coming weeks on the negotiating mandate on which the union will negotiate with russia the future pca, or what name will be given to this new agreement. the eu-russia summit in november must be able to reach an agreement and decide to enter into negotiations. in this respect, the meeting in lahti was a rehearsal. but the lahti meeting also told president putin that at the november meeting, where president barroso, high representative solana and i will be representing the union, we will speak for the whole union. this debate in parliament gives strong support to this. we can say that all the institutions of the union are united in this. we're dependent on each other. this dependence must be made mutually beneficial. the dependence must be based, as has been said many times in this chamber, also on shared values. this is the clear objective and policy of the union. but when we talk about cooperation with russia, we should not exaggerate either that russia or the russians are special monsters. they want to cooperate, they want to improve their own standard of living and their own well-being, they want to cooperate with us. this was also a strong message from president putin. he stressed that russia and the russians were more dependent on europe than europe was on russia. in particular, they need cooperation in a very wide range of technologies to develop their own development work, and we must be prepared to do so as well. as regards investment, i would like to point out that european companies have already invested tens of billions of euros in the russian energy sector. some large investments are on hold, some companies are having difficulties with the russian government, some have gotten their projects through with ease. that is why we need common rules of the game, so that the rules are the same for everyone. the rules should also be the same for russian companies in relation to europe. i want to thank you for this conversation and for your feedback. in december we shall return with concrete conclusions to many of these subjects, and in december we shall also return strongly to the immigration issues which have been raised here in several speeches. on immigration issues - whether legal or illegal - we need mutual solidarity and a common policy, and we will return to that. (applause) i would like to thank the
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i think that practically everything has already been said. let me just return to some of the points you raised in the debate. firstly, as regards the european institute of technology, and as prime minister vanhanen said at the end of the lahti summit, the european council gave the initiative the green light, not the orange light, but the green light. now it's just a matter of putting it in place. that is why we have already tabled a legislative proposal for consideration by the council and parliament, which covers, among other things, the question of funding which you raised in the debate. our approach is that there should be funding from the community institutions but also from the member states who want to support the initiative: it is a way for them to achieve the lisbon objectives in terms of innovation and research. we also expect contributions from the private sector. in this connection, let me say that, on the basis of the informal contacts we have, there is a great deal of interest from the private sector in financing certain of the actions carried out by this institute, which is quite normal since the same ideas are found in many of our member states. public-private partnerships exist and if initiatives in the member states are successful in attracting private investment for research, i wonder why we should not be able to do so at european level. i say this because we believe that research support should be given a european dimension. the united states is distinguished from europe in research by the existence of institutions or networks covering the entire territory of the united states of america, for example the national science foundation, which some of you know, or the national institute for health. in europe, until now, we had practically nothing of this kind. there are many great institutions, great universities in some of our countries, but it is only now that we have set up the european research council, which is a key institution for the implementation of the seventh research framework programme, and the european institute of technology, which is precisely an institution based on the idea of networks to give an impetus, a european vision to innovation, research and teaching efforts based on excellence. that's why it's a great project and i thank everyone who spoke in favour of it. we have asked that the fight against climate change and europe's leading role in the field of renewable energy, environmentally friendly energy, be among the first priorities of this institute. i believe we have a specific mission in this respect and i will address my remarks in particular to those who have expressed concerns about this, including mr turmes. energy is undoubtedly the question of the future, not only from an economic but also from a political point of view. i agree with mr poignant's remark which draws a parallel with the situation in the coal and steel sector. i see energy as a great unifying factor. that is why we presented a green paper on sustainable energy a few months ago and we were very pleased with the support given by the european council to the idea of a common approach to energy. mr poignant, that is exactly what we are working towards. this approach is very important when considering our responsibilities to our planet and to future generations: climate change is perhaps the greatest challenge of the 21st century. but it is also very important from an economic point of view, as it is true that we must retain the possibility of being the first movers, of being at the forefront of the fight against climate change. it is also very important as a demonstration of solidarity, especially for the enlarged europe: we have here an opportunity to show that solidarity must be de facto solidarity. i therefore see great ambition in this dossier and i can assure mr turmes in particular that it is in this spirit that we are preparing the energy package to be presented in january. you have already seen the first sign of this in the proposal we have just tabled on energy efficiency. as prime minister vanhanen said, the lahti council paved the way for the formal decisions on energy which we hope to get at the spring council, which will already be under the german presidency. i would like to conclude by saying that i share the ambition, and sometimes even the impatience, expressed by mr goebbels, mr swoboda, mr schulz and many others. our role today is to turn, as mr goebbels said, the dream into reality. that's our job. but the informal council, as the one in hampton court showed, offers an opportunity to deepen the debate and consolidate positions. in this respect, i can honestly say that the lahti council has made progress. it was difficult, particularly because of the increasingly complex relations with russia. i felt that there was a change in this respect too - mr putin's presence helped to bring about this - i felt that the heads of state and government understood the need for coherence and solidarity. i therefore hope that now, with the vigilant support of the european parliament, the conditions will be in place, during the finnish presidency and beyond, to take forward these very important issues of energy and innovation, and to take forward our project of a more united europe. (applause) i would like to thank
against the backdrop of the summit, forces are moving in concert on how to (re) start a process, disregarding the sovereign and democratically expressed will of the french and dutch peoples, which will seek to (re) impose the unacceptable treaty, incorrectly and abusively called the 'european constitution'. these sinister intentions have been coming more and more to the fore. the portuguese presidency of the council in the second half of 2007 will have the "enormous responsibility" of "taking the first steps in the implementation of the (so-called) constitutional change programme" and "will be the launching pad for the new (so-called) european constitution", putting into practice a "programme" previously defined by the german presidency and to be completed by the french presidency in the second half of 2008. the capitalist integration of the european union, a neoliberal, federalist and militarist integration which the so-called 'european constitution' would strengthen on the legal and political level, will once again, despite all the propaganda, mystification and demagogy, be firmly rejected by all the forces fighting for a europe of sovereign and equal states, social progress, cooperation and peace.
the rapporteur. mr president, the council was not able to attend the debate on monday and has now made a statement. i think it is legitimate for parliament to react to the council's statement through your rapporteur. if i may, mr president, i would just like to say two very simple things. the first is that i congratulate the presidency on the work it has done on this dossier and i believe that parliament can count on the presidency to strengthen the external borders and help to increase the security of our citizens through the legislative act we are about to adopt. but if it is true that the presidency has done very well in this process, it is also true that the council as such has not done so well. the council has not honoured the commitments it made at the trialogue in may in this city of strasbourg. i hope that the council will not do to the finnish presidency what it did to the austrian presidency, that it will honour its commitments and approve the document as we will approve it, because only then will we have an agreement at first reading and only then will we not delay the entry into operation of the second generation schengen information system.
in writing. the resolution adopted deserves my vote against for several reasons. first of all, i think it is unacceptable to call initiatives (these or any other) aimed at putting an end to the terrorist activity of eta a 'peace process'. the choice of words is equivocal and not innocent. there's no war here. what we have here is a democratic, free state that respects autonomy and a people who have been the victims of indiscriminate violence by a terrorist group for no good reason. secondly, i cannot vote for a resolution which does not clearly recognize the impossibility of negotiating with a terrorist group which refuses to renounce violence explicitly and in advance. finally, i understand that spain and the spanish people are free to resolve the question of basque terrorism as they see fit, but i refuse to subscribe to a european parliament resolution on this subject which makes no reference to the unjustified and indefensible motives of eta. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism. in this case the very substance of the terrorists' complaints merits our condemnation, and it does not elicit any relevant support in terms of democratic voting.
in writing. the terms in which the motion for a resolution was put to the vote are offensive to a large part of the spanish people and, above all, to the victims of terrorism in spain, as was made abundantly clear by the association which represents the overwhelming majority of the members and which has been calling the process initiated by the spanish government a surrender. the title itself wrongly indicates the existence of two legitimate sides involved in a peace process when what is at stake are negotiations between a government and a terrorist group responsible for the death, persecution and extortion of hundreds of spanish citizens. it is important to remember that after the eta ceasefire declaration, there have been threats from its members, no weapons have been handed over and there are reports of attempts to rearm it. opening an unconditional dialogue with terrorists who not only do not condemn, but do not justify the armed struggle and show no remorse for the innocent lives they have taken, is an incredible concession on the part of the political power of a democratic state. there is no reason for celebration. i cannot but deplore the opportunism of the zapatero government, which has tried to win international support which it has not obtained from its own citizens.
in writing. today, the european parliament is voting on the report by mrs lissy gröner on the 'youth in action' programme for the period 2007-2013, which deserves my support, especially as it will guarantee the funding of youth activities throughout europe. this new programme provides for five types of action: youth for europe, european voluntary service, youth for the world, social and educational encouragement and support systems and support for political cooperation. europe thus continues to rely on a youth policy as a means of strengthening the sense of belonging to europe of its citizens and of contributing to the development of its young people, based on the necessary solidarity and mutual understanding between all.
in writing. even this programme is a testimony to the lack of attention the european union pays to its citizens. of course, the financial figures are very low. there were about 60% cuts over the budgeted amount. but it is also true that it is an ambiguous programme. in addition to interesting objectives such as support for twinning of cities, civic projects, surveys, various studies, artistic events and conferences, there are others which reveal unacceptable policy options, such as excluding fascist crimes from support in the new action 4 - european active memory. as regards the changes in the budgetary allocations within the programme itself, the strengthening of action linked to education is welcomed, but it is hoped that the inclusion of such educational projects will be done by ensuring the pluralism of positions on the european union and the policies practised and not by trying to turn it into another forum for propaganda. we welcome the inclusion of amateur sports organisations and hope that there will be pluralism in its application.
in writing. the 'europe for citizens' programme aims to bridge the gap between citizens and the european union by providing the union with instruments to promote active european citizenship. it encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries, so that they can meet, act together and develop their own ideas in a european environment that transcends a purely national vision and respects their diversity. i voted in favour of this report, which, by introducing the two amendments that follow, makes it possible to improve the 'europe for citizens' programme. firstly, by reducing the budget for action 1 'active citizens for europe' from 47% to 45%, it will be possible to increase the budget for action 2 'civil society in europe', which is particularly suitable for financing projects on europe, its values and cultures. finally, as regards the overall objective of the programme, i support the rapporteur's initiative to integrate the strengthening of tolerance in order to ensure that projects financed under this programme contribute to active citizenship which promotes mutual respect and intercultural dialogue and combats racism, xenophobia and discrimination.
in writing. perfluorooctanosulfonates (pfos) are toxic, persistent and bioaccumulative products present in some applications as colourants, waterproofing agents and fire retardants. the report, in contrast to the commission's original proposal, proposes a phasing out of the placing of pfos on the market with a view to phasing out their use and removes certain initially envisaged derogations (in the case of metal chromium and fire-fighting foams for which there are already viable safer alternatives). the administrative threshold of 0,1% proposed by the commission is further amended by an amendment to the undertaking to a new threshold of 0,005%. it also provides for the drawing up of inventories of products in which pfos are used by each member state in order to prevent releases of these substances into the environment. i agree in particular with the amendment which proposes that current derogations can only be maintained if there are no safer substances or technologies that are technically and economically feasible and if the best available techniques are applied to minimise pfos emissions. the amendments seek to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports by mr carlos coelho because i consider them to be of the utmost importance for the defence of the interests and security of our citizens. the sis ii system will allow the enlargement of the schengen area to new member states to take place as quickly as possible, not only by updating and increasing its capacity, but also by introducing the new possibilities that the latest technological developments allow. the key point, however, is that the operation of this system should allow for greater security in the management and control of personal data, without losing sight of the fundamental individual rights, and thus ensure our citizens that all measures are taken to effectively combat organised crime, illegal immigration and other crimes that undermine their security and interests.
in writing. the objective of the report is to extend the sis features beyond their original purpose by developing new features, extending its access to new authorities, interlinking alerts between them, adding new categories of data - such as the arrest warrant and biometric data - and a technical platform for sharing information with the visa information system. this extension from the previous system entails high risks for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens by adding new elements to a database which is also shared by more bodies and is accessible to more people, and there is no full guarantee of confidentiality of this data. there are also other concerns in this proposal, namely that records may be 'kept for a longer period if they are necessary for control procedures already in progress' (the question here is who defines this 'need' and the vague notion of 'control procedures already in progress'). another area which is too vague is the sharing of data with third countries made possible by the proposal. the basic aim is to adapt sis to the new needs arising from enlargement and the dangerous and unacceptable objectives of the current security offensive in the eu.
in writing. the report advocates trade liberalisation and the principle of reciprocity and the imposition of retaliatory measures. the whole logic of this is competition for market shares in the name of competition. not a logic of cooperation where trade has a role to play in development, but it is not everything. anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures are interferences in the internal decisions of each country and threats that can be imposed by the wto. the losers are the developing and the less developed countries. the report also defends the wto and the dispute settlement mechanism, seeking to alleviate whatever trade defence mechanism is more offensive (anti-dumping) or more defensive (safeguard). to lighten the dispute mechanism and give it more power is to strengthen the weight of the great powers in the wto, because they are the ones who have the capacity to impose rules. the essential point is that trade liberalization is contrary to the logic of equitable development. each state must have the right to decide its own model of economic and social development, to industrialize and to protect its industry. this right cannot be denied. it is a sovereign right, which calls into question the model of export promotion and free trade.
the aim of the report by mrs de keyser is dialogue and the future normalisation of our relations with syria. we see the association agreement as part of that political process. the political emphasis is that the agreement is much more advantageous for europe than for syria itself from an economic point of view. the freezing of relations with damascus was a political mistake. europe cannot have blacklists, nor can it subscribe to the american theses on the axis of evil. syria, regardless of its regime, is a key country for peace in the region. on the other hand, europe must learn to appreciate the complexity of syrian society and the plurality of its views. the regime is as authoritarian in politics as it is soft in economics and liberal in religion and customs. plurality is stifled and suppressed, but it exists in society and in the institutions themselves. it will be all the greater the less the western powers interfere in the region. it is a pity that the final version of the report suffers in several places from the tics inherited from the colonial age: for example, it's not our job to name who is trustworthy and who is not, because we don't accept third parties, and very well, that kind of opinion. it would also be better not to cast imaginary suspicions about damascus's relations with al-qaeda or sunni fundamentalism, which do not exist. ignorance is not good for us and we owe it to ourselves to be consistent. you can't make diplomatic relations contingent on the outcome of a criminal investigation. the proof of the crime of the horrible murder of rafik hariri must be made in court, otherwise our policy violates the principle of the presumption of innocence. the report is clear on the essential points. you want to normalize relations, and that's good. it is also good that the issue of human rights is at the heart of this normalisation - it just needed europe to make this same policy with all other countries, including israel. and finally, it supports the return of the golan heights to damascus, a guarantee that is supported in un resolutions and that syria has never sought to reclaim by violent means.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the barcelona declaration sets out the objectives of building a common area of peace, stability and prosperity by strengthening political and security dialogue, economic and financial partnership and social, cultural and human partnership. this objective has been successfully pursued over the last few years and there are already association agreements with virtually all the countries of the mediterranean basin, except, of course, syria, for various and understandable reasons. the european union has always taken account of the situation in recent months. it must seriously engage in genuine negotiations with that country in order to achieve its firm will to conclude the agreement, moving towards a democracy which respects human rights, religious freedom, the fight against terrorism and promotes dialogue and a consistent peace in the region. to this end, it is crucial that the syrian government act to ensure that the end of the state of emergency is swiftly a reality, with all possible assistance from the european union. syria has a geo-strategic situation of the utmost importance and a crucial role to play in the middle east peace process. it must be made clear once and for all that the european union considers that democratic consolidation cannot be achieved by a policy of bombing or isolation.
madam president-in-office, i am very grateful for the information you have given me and my question is very clear, direct and of an evaluative nature. does the council, and in particular the finnish presidency, not consider that free access by citizens to personal data on those convicted of paedophilia or sexual violence against young people is an excellent tool in the fight against this type of crime?
the following is the oral question to the commission on climate change in nairobi, tabled by mr florenz on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0100/2006 - b6-0440/2006).
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
the report by mrs corien wortmann-kool, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the promotion of inland waterway transport - integrated european action programme for inland waterway transport 'naiades' [2006/2085 (ini) ] (a6-0299/2006) follows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
the report by barbara weiler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on public-private partnerships and community rules on public procurement and concessions [2006/2043 (ini) ] (a6-0363/2006) follows.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the discrimination that many workers from eu member states, such as portugal, continue to face when they go to work in other countries, also members of the eu, but where higher wages are paid, is well known. the directive on the posting of workers states that it is the sole responsibility of the host country to ensure the protection and rights of posted workers, and the country concerned is obliged to take measures to prevent the minimum standards from being circumvented, giving rise to situations of genuine discrimination, which ultimately affect all workers, both posted and those in the host country. but reality has shown us that this directive is being ignored in many quarters, despite the numerous requests, both from the european parliament and from specific cases, as we have done on several occasions. there is still a situation of non-compliance which must be resolved and we cannot accept the commission's position that it intends to limit, in important areas, the minimum requirements imposed by the member states on companies, which, moreover, follow on from the proposal for a directive on the creation of the internal market in services. in supporting the rapporteur's work, we cannot but deplore the pressure and proposals the epp is maintaining following its attempts to prevent clarification of important aspects of the implementation of the directive itself, such as the deletion amendments it has made to several points in the report under discussion. the attempts to delete paragraph 13 and parts of paragraphs 26 and 29 of the report are particularly serious. we, for our part, insist on defending the rapporteur's work and on approving a number of other proposals aimed at complying with the directive.
mr president, mr commissioner, the dynamism of the internal market has provided increased mobility of workers and has helped european companies to develop their activities in a transnational manner. the possibility for companies to second some of their workers to another member state of the european union for the temporary execution of a job has also contributed to this increased mobility. however, the experience gained so far leaves much to be desired. in the portuguese case, especially in the construction market, the posting of workers has gone badly. several cases of exploitation of portuguese workers have been detected in spain, france, the united kingdom and the netherlands. this is because there is a gap between the 1999 directive, which strikes a balance between the freedom to provide services and the safeguarding of the labour rights of posted workers, and the application of the directive on the ground. in addition to divergent interpretations of the directive by the member states, there are also practical difficulties in its implementation which have contributed to more barriers, more bureaucracy and slower procedures. the lack of control over the application of this directive is obvious. subcontracting is a striking example of situations which, although very frequent, are not covered by the directive, which leads to an unacceptable dilution of responsibilities and always to the detriment of posted workers. i support mrs schroedter's report because i believe that it is the duty of the host member state, in close cooperation with the authorities of the country of origin, to ensure that the employment conditions laid down in the directive are respected in order to increase the effectiveness of monitoring and combating illegal practices. i also support mrs schroedter's report because it is necessary to adopt corrections to better organise support, monitoring and implementation of this directive in a systematic way.
mr president, i also agree with the proposal to postpone this debate and the vote on it until november for the very reasons which have been mentioned, namely that it is too important a matter to be dealt with in 15 minutes or so.
in writing. i voted against amendment no 811 on the rural development programmes of the committee on budgets and against amendment no 3 to paragraph 23 because it limits funding to rural development and prevents the application of 'voluntary modulation' as proposed by the commission.
in writing. reaffirming our criticism of the central aspects of the negotiating strategy and the priorities set by the european parliament for the 2007 community budget, we think it is important to highlight the adoption of some of our proposals, which are aimed at: - strengthening the convergence allocation of the european social fund; - promoting cooperation and associativity between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; - protecting and preserving forests, with forest fire surveillance and prevention measures and actions; - promoting, conserving and protecting cultural heritage, such as the european cistercian route and unesco heritage sites; - promoting cooperation between agricultural organisations and other rural actors with a view to revitalising the world; - promoting rural or family farming, small and medium-sized farmers and young farmers; - carrying out studies or reports on: child labour in the eu; - unemployment and displacement; - the unemployment of workers in the eu; - the impact of new technologies and information on the prices of essential goods and services and the impact of seasonal and labour market diseases outside the country of origin; - the banking and information on the prices of goods and services; - the impact of the banking and financial services sector.
in writing. the structural, economic and social situation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions and the adoption of the new european fisheries fund require the extension of the derogations provided for in regulation (ec) no 639/2004 as regards the criteria and conditions for structural actions relating to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the cfp. the proposal for a council regulation providing for the extension of these derogations for the outermost regions until 31 december 2006 and the practical implementation of the measures adopted in the meantime until 2008 should of course be adopted as soon as possible so that it can actually have the practical effect it is intended to have. i agree in substance with the purpose and content of this document, and i regret that the implementation plan for the renewal and modernisation of the fisheries fleets of the ors cannot be implemented for the whole duration of the next financial perspective, instead of the time limit set for 2008. in spite of this, and because this derogation still represents positive discrimination against the ors, i am voting in favour of the adoption of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to extend until 31 december 2006 and then until 31 december 2007 the derogations granted to the fishing fleets of the outermost regions as regards the entry/exit capacity of fleets and the application of public aid for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets. it was therefore urgent to approve this proposal in view of the specific structural, social and economic situation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions - in particular the azores and madeira - together with the permanent difficulties and constraints of these regions, such as the small size of the markets and insularity. the question is that for many of these regions the existing economic activities, in this case fishing, are of very high socioeconomic importance, in particular in ensuring the consumption of fresh fish by the population. since these derogations are necessary and given that the fleet situation is structural - not cyclical - and as is acknowledged by the european commission and the council, what is important is that these derogations become permanent and be included in the european fisheries fund for the period 2007-2013.
in writing. one of the greatest virtues of the recent enlargement of the european union is that it also involves an enlargement of our memory. for most of us the hungarian uprising of 1956 is a distant memory in time, in geography and even in politics. but the entry of countries such as poland, the baltic states, slovenia and hungary itself brings with it the active incorporation of another memory. for a year and a half, that memory is also entirely ours. from this comes a whole new geo-strategic notion of our place in the world, which we must integrate and update, while implying a different understanding of what the struggles for democracy in the 20th century were. on the other hand, and this is obvious, this moment should serve as a reminder that communism was not romantic or utopian. the history of communism is the history of repression, of violence, of inhumanity. we remember.
in writing. we are of course not calling into question the conclusion of an association agreement with syria, which is reportedly the only country in the region with which the ec has not concluded an association agreement. however, we disagree strongly with some of the important and central points in the report. the report is characterized by a line of interference and imposition on a diverse set of issues on which only the syrian people can decide sovereignly. moreover, the european parliament is blaming and accusing syria of the situation in the middle east, which it has never dared to do in relation to israel and the united states, which are the main responsible parties for the dangerous and dramatic situation in the region. the report states, among other things, that the aim of the agreement is to 'transition the political regime' in syria and to create 'an open market-based economy'. it seeks to impose on syria compliance with un security council resolutions on lebanon, but omits that israel continues to occupy part of syrian territory, attacks lebanon and maintains its policy of state terrorism against palestine. it criticises syrian policy and calls on it to review 'its foreign policy and its alignment in the region'. which we consider unacceptable.
in writing. the adoption of this report, which is essentially balanced in its version negotiated with the epp, still deserves some reservations. the european union has neither the power nor the capacity to act as a world power, both because of substantial impossibility and because of practical difficulties. it lacks the military means, the finances and, above all, the vocation. but this does not mean that the eu should be a passive member of the international community. europe as a market, europe as a financial support, europe as a land of welcome for immigrants, europe as a neighbour - all these dimensions make - or should make - the eu a partner in foreign policy. this is not the usual reference to the virtues of soft power, nor is it the discussion of the need for alternative poles. i am talking about the capacity that these dimensions should give the eu to influence and change policy in one of the most important regions: the mediterranean. the eu must be able to produce the same effect on its neighbours in the medium term as it did on the countries which joined it in succession. a different model is needed to reproduce the effects of the expectation of accession on a mediterranean scale. unfortunately, this agreement does not yet reflect that ambition.
in writing. the wortmann-kool report calls for the appropriate promotion of water transport, which has so far been little developed. this safe, environmentally friendly mode of transport, whose infrastructure is far from being fully utilised, could contribute to modal shift and thus to reducing the congestion problems affecting other modes of transport. the increase in trade after enlargement also seems to favour the development of new markets, such as this type of transport. since it is of the utmost importance for the future of a sustainable transport policy that we adopt measures to re-balance the transport modes, i consider the development of the inland waterway transport market to be significant, since it can, from its development stage, include all the strategic areas important for the optimum development of this market. therefore, taking into account the different characteristics of the european territory, it is essential to contribute to an appropriate legislative framework that allows the development of markets that can participate in the transfer of traffic to alternative types of transport. i am therefore a portuguese member of the european parliament and i support this programme, which, while not promoting national interests, i am confident will also have positive consequences on the transport market in portugal.
in writing. public-private partnerships are very popular in the member states of the european union and, of course, the united kingdom is the european champion. but in fact they are a euphemism for privatising or preparing the privatisation of public goods and services, giving, for long periods, the concession of these goods and services to private for their profitability. and this, advocates say, is to better manage risk. what is forgotten is that the private sector gets the profits, the state always ends up paying, especially when the partnership "goes wrong" or does not guarantee the profits that the private sector wants. and this applies to everything from granting motorways to running hospitals and schools to participating in investment projects under the structural funds. they are a form of outsourcing of state responsibilities, which we cannot agree with. the initiative also aims to have a legal regime at community level. we can therefore only vote against this report.
in writing. the european parliament has fulfilled its annual ritual of sanctioning the monetary policy of the european central bank (ecb). although the report advises caution in raising interest rates and the need for investment, it considers price stability and fiscal consolidation, which threatens economic growth, employment and the purchasing power of wages, as central objectives. when economic and social concerns have been imposed, changing the fundamental objective of the ecb, the recipe is more of the same - structural reforms, of course, in the labour market and social security. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. this is in a rotating voting system in the governing council, adopted in 2003, which has excluded small countries from voting on monetary decisions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it won't be hard to tell who's in and who's out. for all these reasons, we could only vote against.
in a region plagued by autocratic dictatorships, karimov's uzbekistan nevertheless managed to stand out for the andijan massacre. the government says 169 dead, the opposition says 745. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. the european council approved an arms embargo and other restrictive measures in november. one year later, what are the developments? the crackdown worsened by strangling the work of ngos and journalists. in march this year, the high commissioner for refugees was expelled from the country and above all, between november and july this year, in a rare exercise of cynicism, 250 more people were summarily convicted for causing the may massacre in dozens of grotesque media trials. all this shows that it is not only imperative to extend the existing sanctions for another 12 months, but also to deepen them by freezing financial transactions and european visas for the main tormentors of tashkent and extend them to include the main culprit, president karimov.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
i would like to thank the political group and the other groups for the interest they have shown in this matter, which has enabled this oral question to be tabled quickly. this interest is a good indication of the importance and sensitivity of the milk quota issue. the commissioner, in informal council, suggested that the milk quota system was looking increasingly archaic and should be questioned and examined so that farmers could plan for their lives in the long term. on 3 october, at the last meeting of the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, mr rasmussen, representing the european commission, said that following the help check of the 2008-2009 cap we could see changes, probably a phasing out of the milk quota system even before 2015, the deadline of the 2003 agreement. it is not the european parliament that has now raised this question, but it is the european parliament that must clarify it, because our voters have immediately and very concernedly asked us what is going on. the truth is that when these statements emerged, the market reacted immediately and various organisations and political actors came out to take a stand on the future of milk quotas. it can be said that the cap help check is not a midterm review, but we know of the internal and external pressures to promote changes that go beyond the mere simplification of processes. in the dairy sector, planning is done for the long term. both the acquisition of shares, and the investment in contrast, genetic improvement or environmental obligations, require a review of six to eight years, which is why what the policy makers say today has repercussions until 2014-2015. it comes from a region in the azores, which accounts for 30% of portugal's milk production, where milk is the main source of wealth and where there are no alternatives in the medium term, which is why i am even more sensitive to these changes. it is therefore crucial to understand whether the agreement is to be implemented or not and whether any aggressive mechanisms are deployed before or after 2015. it is also essential to state politically that the european union will take account of the social and economic consequences of changing these rules in the regions most dependent on milk, and in particular in those where there are no other alternatives to production. the commissioner has already said that the milk quota system is not a good thing, but that it is not a good thing.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the commissioner's position on the milk quota system is truly worrying in that she points to its possible dismantling by 2015. although he said that it was too early to take any substantive measures, the liberalization road he mentioned overlooks the importance of milk production in several of the most deprived agricultural areas. for example, in portugal, whether in the northern and central regions of the country or in the autonomous region of the azores, the eventual dismantling of the milk quota system would block rural development and condemn to poverty vast areas where milk and milk products are the dominant activity. we therefore insist on defending the specific nature of agriculture in several member states, particularly in portugal.
i would like to thank the commissioner again for her presence in strasbourg. their frequent presence here demonstrates the continued importance of agriculture in europe. we have been thinking about the common agricultural policy. my group - the socialist group - just last week held an important seminar in brussels to reflect on the common agricultural policy we have and the common agricultural policy we want. but thinking about the future must not mean introducing any factor of instability. farmers work with nature and value the stability of natural cycles and markets react, as we know, to all factors of instability, although instability cannot mean immobility, and therefore we should not archaically defend the status quo just because the status quo should be defended. the commissioner has therefore said that the latest statements from certain sectors have created an unusual alarm in the sector, and that an appropriate political response is needed to ensure that the instability felt by the sector in this area is not exploited for perverse political purposes. and the only way to combat instability and insecurity is through regular information, transparent information and information which is as clear as possible. i therefore call on you, commissioner, to adopt a strategy to clarify the sector as effectively as possible, but also to tell you that the commission is respecting its agreements and that the scenario set for 2014 is, of course, a scenario that must be respected without prejudice to the discussion and without prejudice to the study of alternative scenarios that may prove justified.
author. - mr president, thank you very much, as the author of the question i would just like to put a point of order to the commissioner very quickly so that we can all leave here with more clarity on this matter. we know, as she said, that if nothing is done, the regime will end in 2005. we also know from the commissioner herself that in her opinion this is an archaic system and should be brought to an end. but what we want to know, and this is the question i would like to ask you and that you answer very, very clearly, is whether you admit that in your opinion the phasing-out can begin before 2015 as assumed by mr rasmussen, your official in the committee on agriculture of the european parliament, or whether it will start from 2015? this is a crucial question and i would like you to answer it very clearly.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, first of all i would like to stress the importance of the adoption of our colleague jan mulder's report, by agreeing to the european commission's proposal to exempt portugal from the application of the co-financing requirement of eur 320 million, following the council's agreement of december 2005. the difficulties of my country, portugal, in meeting the unfair criteria of the stability pact are well known, given the fragility of our economy and the social problems that are accumulating, particularly in rural areas, and hence the importance of the approval of this proposal. secondly, with regard to the goepel report, i would like to say that we are in favour of mandatory modelling, accompanied by a ceiling and a fair redistribution of these funds, including in the new member states, which, as has already been said, is not guaranteed in this proposal from the european commission, and we therefore urge you to reconsider your proposal, madam commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr mulder and mr goepel on the excellent work they have done and to say that i support the proposals contained in their reports. the decision taken by the council last december to make voluntary modulation possible may represent a distortion of the conditions of competition between farmers in several member states, as a result of different options as to the modulation percentages to be adopted. the proximity of the 2008 cap help check, where we can discuss the increase in compulsory modulation and the cap, is another reason why we are not moving forward now with measures such as voluntary modulation, which may have irreversible consequences. if this proposal is accepted, we will clearly be taking another step towards the renationalisation of the cap and the dismantling of the community approach to agricultural policy. without diminishing the political importance of rural development, i must say that this measure will not strengthen investment in this policy, and i give the example of my country, which is the one that returns the most second pillar funds to brussels, and the one in which, in the european union of 15, there is already the greatest balance between the first and second pillars, 53% and 47% respectively. however, in my country, portugal, the minister for agriculture has already announced his intention to adopt the 20% modulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with these practical risks, which are already clearly detectable in countries like portugal, as i have just mentioned, it is clear that in order to defend farmers and a common agricultural policy uncompromisingly, we must do everything possible to prevent the proposal for voluntary modulation from being put forward.
i would like to express my sympathy and appreciation for the work of the mulder report and my thanks to the commissioners who unanimously approved it. the decision to exempt portugal from the co-financing of eur 320 million is a fair one and follows on from several council decisions, aimed at compensating for the recognised constraints of portuguese agriculture in relation to the cap model which has been in force and therefore farmers are and have been clearly penalized by this model and this is a way of compensating them. i am sorry that i cannot express the same appreciation for the goepel report, because this is a highly political subject and we must use political arguments to discuss it. we all know that the cap is unfair to many member states, to many regions, to many farmers, and one way of correcting this injustice is precisely the application of modulation mechanisms. in the case of portugal, this distortion is even scandalous, only 5% of farmers receive more than eur 5 000 a year and therefore, given the possibility of voluntary modulation, since compulsory modulation is not yet possible, voluntary modulation is preferable to the sheer absence of modulation. i therefore believe that the positions that have been expressed are profoundly incorrect and i would like to reassure the commissioner that she is not alone in defending this position in this parliament. i think it is entirely fair to give it to the member states, and i would like to draw mr nickolson's attention to the fact that it is not just the united kingdom that will be applying the measure, the portuguese government has already announced that it will do so. i therefore think that limiting or not allowing member states to use this instrument to promote justice for many farmers who are not able to receive a single penny in the first pillar of the cap is a profoundly wrong position for parliament and i say this only on political grounds, because legal, technical or other grounds i refuse to accept and i do not have time to discuss them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by its contribution to employment, to doubling gdp over the next two decades, sesar will be a key priority for the union and its member states and an indispensable condition for meeting the challenges of the next few decades: ensuring the safety and fluidity of air transport at european and world level, improving the functioning of the market and competitiveness, improving the management of environmental effects, improving european cohesion. on the relevant points i would like to make, firstly, the legal basis should not be article 161 alone, but should be a double one, consisting of articles 161 and 163, in order to increase and improve the involvement of the european parliament. secondly, in the management model, private initiative, industry, operators and the scientific community must certainly be guaranteed, as the commissioner has said, but it is essential to ensure that the partners with the largest public obligations, the commission and eurocontrol, play a key role in terms of financial participation and also voting participation, with a view to efficient air traffic management and technology, and also without any impact on the taxpayer's taxation.
in writing. the united nations convention against corruption is in fact the first instrument designed at global level to prevent and combat corruption. it thus aims to create a strategy and an overall framework with a set of minimum but important standards which should be applied to all participating states. those rules should cover the prevention, investigation and prosecution of corruption, as well as the freezing, seizure, confiscation and return of proceeds of such offences. the commission negotiated this agreement, which covers those elements of the convention which fall within the community's field of competence, and concluded the negotiations in september 2005 on behalf of the community. i therefore support the conclusion of this agreement. but i regret that three member states (sweden, slovenia and estonia) have not yet signed this convention. i hope that the ratification process, which has been carried out not only by the community but also by the member states which have not yet done so, will be completed as soon as possible. stressing the crucial importance of its entry into force as soon as possible, so that more effective action can be taken to prevent and combat this type of crime.
in writing. this report could only have my vote in favour, of course. the fight against corruption at global level is an indispensable objective for good governance in the various members of the international community and, therefore, a fundamental factor for peace and development. even before the ethical considerations, the economic considerations, there is a previous point that makes the fight against corruption on a global scale a key factor in international relations. countries with corrupt governments are governed by rules, criteria and interests that are incompatible with those of sustainable development, cooperation and peace. combating them is combating one of the causes of conflict and poverty. it is not enough, however, that we sign these conventions; in international practice - particularly in the field of cooperation, in which the eu plays such a significant role - this struggle must be part of our criteria for action. that is the meaning of my vote in favour.
in writing. the commission proposal under this report aims to bring regulation no 1698/2005/ec into line with the agreement of the european council of 15/16 december 2005 on the financial perspective 2007-2013 as regards the 'cohesion support fund ceilings for transfers' and the exemption of portugal from the application of the co-financing requirement of eur 320 million. under the terms of the agreement, the amount of eur 320 million to be allocated to portugal would not be 'subject to the national co-financing requirement', 'taking into account the specific difficulties of portuguese agriculture'. for portugal, first, the provision of a 'national envelope' within the overall allocation foreseen for the new rural development instrument (the eafrd), and then the doubling of the initially proposed amount, plus such an exemption, in recognition of the difficult situation of portuguese agriculture, were one of the aspects considered most positive of the political agreement reached under the uk presidency in the arduous and long negotiations on the next financial framework for the period 2007-2013. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr jan mulder, which proposes adopting the commission's proposal.
in writing. apart from the general considerations on the need to link agricultural policy and funds for farmers more closely to rural development objectives, my vote in favour of this report is also justified by the fact that the portuguese exceptional nature has been recognised and, for that very reason, the requirement for national co-financing has been excluded here. as is clear from my question to the commission, in the recent past portuguese farmers, national agriculture and potential rural development have been harmed by the inability or lack of will of the portuguese government, leaving large amounts of money unused. that is why this exceptional situation is fully justified.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs marie-nöelle lienemann (a6-0373/2006) on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy, because this 'marine environment strategy' directive will make it possible to give the necessary effect to the 6th environment action programme on the promotion of the sustainable use of the seas and marine ecosystems. a significant proportion of europe's citizens live in coastal regions and depend on the sea for work or leisure. the development of national marine strategies - with the aim of achieving good environmental status and protecting and maintaining the most vulnerable marine ecosystems and biological diversity - will allow the maintenance of activities in the marine environment at sustainable levels that do not compromise the uses and activities of future generations, nor the ability of marine ecosystems to respond to natural and human-induced changes.
in writing . we consider it important to take the initiative of establishing a framework for action in the field of marine environment policy, with the appropriate financial means. because of its strategic importance, it is essential that member states define environmental assessment strategies and objectives for their marine environment, in collaboration with other member states and third countries, as this is an area where the actions of some may affect others. but there is a fundamental issue in this whole process - the ownership and management of the marine waters to which this directive applies. both the proposal for a directive and the amendments adopted today in the lienemann report start with the definition of 'european maritime waters', leaving it unclear what an eez is and what the role of each member state is. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in view of the lack of clarity on these issues, we abstained from the final vote.
in writing. the proposal for a 'marine environment directive' aims to establish a high level of protection for europe's seas and oceans, a greater knowledge of the same heritage about which there is still so much to discover and define a management strategy with an integrated approach and with qualitative and quantitative objectives to reduce pressures on marine resources and their ecosystems. the inclusion of the reference to the need for co-financing by the european union of the measures to be implemented to enforce the directive and its inclusion in the budgets from the year 2007 is emphasised. this measure is very important for portugal, since it is a country with a large exclusive economic zone (the largest eez in the european union) which therefore entails high costs. the approval of the change in the deadline for achieving the set objectives (from 2021 to 2017) proposed by the epp shows the ambition with which parliament is dealing with this issue and how involved it is in the pursuit of a 'good environmental status' for the marine environment. the other measures proposed by the epp to ensure the sustainable implementation of economic activities involving seas and oceans, the protection of biodiversity and the prevention of pollution are also of great importance, substantially improving the european commission's proposal... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. we welcome the initiative of a policy for the marine environment in the framework of the necessary cooperation and coordination between the different countries, safeguarding their full sovereignty over their territory and resources, and taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects. the conservation of fisheries resources is threatened, in particular, by marine pollution and intensive maritime transport, which have impacts on fishing activity. fishing is not the only element, nor will it be the most important. fisheries resources and their regeneration are indispensable to ensure the future of fisheries, without fish there is no fishery. fishermen are therefore the main stakeholders in the protection and regeneration of the marine environment. in this context, the measures to recover resources must include the necessary economic and social compensation measures for the sector and its workers, with adequate funding. the central issue is respect for the sovereignty of the member states, in particular their eezs, and their capacity to implement autonomous measures in the defence of their fisheries resources. finally, since the maritime strategy must be linked to the cfp, the latter cannot impose its structures on those of fisheries.
in writing. the proposal follows the 'community strategy on mercury' adopted in january 2005, which aims to reduce the use of products containing mercury by prohibiting the placing on the market of devices containing mercury. the adoption of this report prohibits the placing on the market of all types of measuring instruments and amends the original proposal of the european commission so that the new regulation enters into force as soon as possible. the regulation excludes products already placed on the market, appliances considered to be old and collectible, and barometers, the production of which must be duly licensed, and only the possibility of phasing out is provided for. the use of traditional barometers in europe is very low, as is the total volume of mercury they represent. their exclusion from this proposal, as well as from measuring instruments more than 50 years old, is an important measure since, it protects existing small producing industries, the mercury used is generally recycled and reused, and if they were included (and the traditional barometer production industry is extinct), unforeseen contamination and flows of mercury could result... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of the maría sornosa martínez report (a6-0287/2006) on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain measuring instruments containing mercury, because, given the high toxicity of this substance to humans, ecosystems and nature, it is important to define restrictions on the marketing of these products, which will prevent the entry of considerable quantities of mercury into the waste stream and contribute to a higher level of protection of the environment and human health. mercury-containing appliances should be replaced whenever safer alternatives are available on the market, but exceptions may be allowed where alternative solutions do not yet exist, as well as in rare situations related to the maintenance of traditional barometers, museum collections and industrial heritage.
in writing. we voted against the rapporteur's proposal and therefore in favour of the commission's legislative proposal because 'modulation', that is to say the possibility of transferring up to 20% of the appropriations allocated to farmers who receive more than €5 000 per year from the first to the second pillar of the cap, is an essential instrument for introducing some fairness in the distribution of agricultural aid. it should be noted that in portugal only 5% of farmers receive more than €5000 per year. we cannot understand why the current situation is preferred to the alternative of 'voluntary modulation'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in the portuguese case, the proposed implementation would increase support for rural development by some eur 50 million per year and benefit many farmers who are currently excluded from any support.
in writing. the central point of this report is that the commission's proposal is not a proposal for genuine modulation, i.e. a proposal to increase aid to those who receive less or receive nothing at the expense of those who receive more, in order to ensure greater equity in the distribution of aid between producers, countries and productions and to support small and mediumsized farmers and family farming. we believe that the european commission should make a new proposal to create a genuine, compulsory modulation, making it more equitable and freeing up financial resources, introducing a ceiling on aid per holding (cap) and a percentage increase in aid for farmers who receive less aid from the cap (modulation), such as proposing an increase of 15 or 20% for farmers who receive less than € 5 000 in aid and, even from this value, taking into account various situations. without this, we risk widening existing inequalities. we therefore insist that the european commission should reformulate the proposal so that a decision in this area does not end up justifying the renationalisation of the cap. that is why we voted against the report, in order to make way for a fairer proposal.
in writing. the aim of the european commission's proposal, which is confirmed in the report adopted today, is to create a public-private partnership (ppp) to develop a european air traffic management system. the setting up of this ppp sets a dangerous precedent, since it would be the first european ppp with the participation of the european community. without calling into question the continuous need to update and improve air traffic management systems to make them more reliable, accurate and, essentially, safer, given their importance for the safety of all airspace professionals and users, we believe that this objective will not be better achieved by subjecting them to the interests and pressures of the private sector. on the contrary, i did. we also regret that the amendment we support in the committee on transport and tourism (the committee responsible for drawing up an opinion) to safeguard the interests of the air traffic management staff representative bodies in the decisions to be taken by the joint undertaking's board of directors was not considered. for all these reasons, we could not support this report.
in writing. we know that the creation of the euro was a political decision which did not take into account the specific needs of the euro area members, as is shown by the differences between the euro area member countries in economic growth, unemployment rates and inflation rates compared with 2005. we have always said that with a single monetary policy, with the budgetary constraints of the stability pact, the workers would have to pay for the problems of joining the euro, in order to serve the interests of economic and financial groups. the report makes this very clear, saying that 'labour markets should be made more flexible and that those aspects of permanent employment legislation which may make adjustment in the labour market difficult should be abolished', i.e. it insists on liberalising redundancies and fixed-term contracts. it also calls for "wages to respond more rapidly to changing economic circumstances", i.e. to be reduced in line with the cycle. there can be no greater clarity of intent. the rapporteur is not satisfied with this, but he also advocates the liberalisation of services and energy, the strict application of the stability pact, and compliance with the lisbon agenda, i.e. the european liberal consensus. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. this own-initiative report aims to create a single european market for mortgage credit and to promote it across borders. the interest of banks and capital markets is high, given that in 2004 the volume of loans outstanding was eur 4.7 billion, or 45% of eu gdp, a market which is growing rapidly. the report follows the liberal line, advocating more competition in the sector, promoting european mortgages or cross-border mortgages, a secondary market for mortgage credit and the possibility of its trading on the capital market, promotion of cross-border mergers and acquisitions in the financial services sector, opening up this market to institutions other than credit institutions, guaranteeing the freedom to provide services and liberalizing these services, restrictions on the state's regulatory capacity, marketing, via the internet, of mortgage credit and access by foreign entities to databases on customer credit, including its default. it is not difficult to see the risks of all these proposals to the volatility of financial markets, putting at risk mortgaged assets, that is, the savings of many workers and others in purchasing housing. that's why i'm voting against it.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, reading the legislative programme and hearing the presentation of the commission's work for 2007, we can only conclude that we are facing more of the same. the same neoliberalism that is calling into question social and labour rights, that is increasing the precariousness of work, that is resuming old exploitation processes, that is promoting the liberalisation of services, including public services, making clear what was intended with the so-called lisbon strategy. in the name of flexibility, the creation of an internal market, globalisation, contractual ties are being destroyed, and the threat of more relocations of multinationals such as gm opel from azambuja, johnson controls from nelas and portalegre, lear from valongo, to name just a few of the most serious cases that are currently threatening thousands of portuguese workers, whose unemployment is already very high after the layoffs in the textile, clothing and footwear sectors. but it is these same unemployed workers who are now at the mercy of the exploitation of temporary work enterprises and other unscrupulous employers, such as the recent cases reported in the media of portuguese workers in the south of the netherlands who are hungry, without pay and without food. is this corporate social responsibility? but at the same time, in the name of the single currency and price stability, the european central bank is imposing constant interest rate increases and the governments are using the stability pact to undermine production, block social development, undermine micro and small enterprises and create the culture that favors this shameful exploitation of workers, whether migrants or immigrants and their families. what is needed is a break with these neoliberal policies. it is time to give priority to policies of social development and the welfare of the people and i ask for solidarity with these cases of portuguese workers who are hungry and exploited, such as those which have just been reported in the south of the netherlands.
the question period is now over (b6-0445/2006). the following questions were put to the council.
question no 2 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0872/06) subject: qualified majority for an area of freedom, security and justice and for immigration following the delay in the entry into force of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and in view of further enlargement which will make it even more difficult to adopt decisions by unanimity, does the council intend to encourage the legal changes necessary for qualified majority decision-making with a view to achieving the area of freedom, security and justice or, at least, in the field of immigration, where there is a lack of urgent development of new policies?
question no 3 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0874/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: promotion of the decent work for all agenda in its declarations on its work programme, the finnish presidency indicates that it will continue the dialogue on the social aspects of globalisation based on the commission communication 'promoting decent work for all' (com (2006) 0249 final). what concrete action does the council envisage to meet the challenges of globalisation? how do you intend to integrate the promotion of the decent work for all agenda into actions, since the european union can contribute to the implementation of this agenda?
question no 4 by mr sajjad karim (h-0877/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: free trade agreement between the eu and india the european parliament resolution of 28 september 2006 on the european union's economic and trade relations with india (p6_ta(2006) 0388) received overwhelming support from across the political spectrum represented in parliament. the resolution makes clear that while the eu does not intend to renounce multilateralism, a doha agreement does not prejudice bilateral 'wto+' agreements that go beyond the lowest common denominator that the wto can offer. does the council not consider that only greater openness to strategic partnerships will enable the eu and india to achieve their common objectives in areas which will be of crucial importance in the 21st century, such as the protection of intellectual property rights, the opening up of markets for services and investments and effective instruments for trade defence? what is the council's view of this resolution and, in particular, of its recommendation for a free trade agreement between the eu and india? what was the content of the discussions on this issue that took place during the eu-india summit in helsinki?
question no 5 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0879/06) subject: meeting of the foreign affairs council on 15 september given that transparency is laudably one of the themes of the finnish presidency, can the presidency identify the state or member states which, at the general affairs and external relations council meeting of 15 september 2006, blocked an official conclusion on the illegal activities of the cia in response to president bush's statement of 6 september admitting the existence of secret cia detentions?
question no 6 by mr nils lundgren (h-0885/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: genocide against the armenians french president jacques chirac said in a speech in armenia on 30 september that turkey would have to recognise the armenian genocide in order to become a member of the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. on 3 october, commissioner oli rehn took a different view, stating that turkey does not have to recognise the genocide in order to become a member of the eu. after all, it is the council which accepts new member states into the eu. does the presidency of the council consider that turkey must recognize the armenian genocide? what is the council's common position on this political question?
question no 7 by mrs piia-noora kauppi (h-0887/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: homophobia in poland i would like to draw attention to the unfortunate setback in the implementation of fundamental human rights in poland. the polish selection committee of the youth programme decided to reject the european voluntary service project on the grounds that it would be conducive to the spread of homosexual behaviour and attitudes among young people. such statements are extremely discriminatory and violate the fundamental rights of the european union. this is not the first time that poland has violated article 13 of the amsterdam treaty, which guarantees equal rights for all people, regardless of their sexual orientation. as a member state of the european union, poland is obliged to respect the treaties and the values to which it has declared its agreement. will the council react to this kind of violation of fundamental human rights? what kind of measures does the council intend to take to ensure that the treaty is respected throughout the european union?
since the author is not present, question no 8 is inadmissible. question no 9 by mrs elena valenciano martinez-orozco (h-0894/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights council of the united nations the united nations human rights council (unhrc) concluded its second session without adopting any of the resolutions proposed. the debates were dominated by states with a history of human rights abuses that took advantage of the lack of leadership by states considered to be human rights defenders. the unhrc has also been given powers to act swiftly whenever serious human rights violations occur, but has not commented on the situation in darfur, the attacks on civilians in sri lanka or the consequences of the violence in lebanon and the occupied territories. what is the council's view of the outcome of the second session of the united nations human rights council? what role are you prepared to play in the deliberations of the unhrc? what measures are planned to enable the unhrc to effectively address the challenges it faces?
question no 10 by mr chris davies (h-0895/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu-israel association agreement with israel when did the council carry out its most recent assessment of israeli actions in the occupied palestinian territories, to ascertain their compliance with the principles of the united nations charter and in particular with respect for human rights, democratic principles and economic freedom as required by the eu-israel association agreement?
since the author is not present, question no 11 is inadmissible. question no 12 by brian crowley (h-0902/06) subject: relations between the eu and the balkans can the council state what concrete measures have been taken this year to strengthen political and economic relations between the european union and the balkan states?
question no 13 by mr liam aylward (h-0904/06) subject: energy efficiency programmes in the european union can the council indicate what measures it is taking at european union level to promote energy efficiency programmes?
question no 14 by eoin ryan (h-0906/06) subject: eu aid to mozambique can the council state how much the european union made available to help the people of mozambique through the community's development aid programmes in 2006?
question no 15 has been withdrawn. question no 16 by mr robert evans (h-0913/06) subject: iceland and the united kingdom what negotiations has the council had with the republic of iceland on the killing of whales?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed.
the following is the oral question to the commission on games of chance and sports betting in the internal market, tabled by arlene mccarthy on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0118/2006 - b6-0443/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the exclusion of gambling from the services directive, in particular lotteries, but not only, seemed to have brought some clarification in this sector, but we will have to go further. we know that certain types of gambling are complicated, and it is therefore necessary not only to ensure consumer protection but also to ensure effective supervision of the financial circuits linked to these activities in order to prevent or combat money laundering. of course, we cannot confuse adequate consumer protection with undue protectionism that some state wants or is using, but it is worth recalling in any case the right of each member state to regulate the phenomenon of gambling on its territory until another legal instrument appears at european level, and online gambling would in this case deserve special attention from the commission, as it already deserves from parliament, as has been said and shown in this debate. finally, i welcome the fact that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has raised this matter and that we have made some progress in clarifying it tonight.
mr president, apart from some amendments, against which i shall vote tomorrow, this report, in the form in which it has reached this house, is in general a statement of correct principles which have been acquired over the years, and in particular since the year 2000, which was designated the european year of languages. but the extent to which some of these principles are put into practice is the extent to which they are possible in connection with the subsidiarity rule, and if it is true that everyone has the right to his mother tongue, it is no less true that, in practice, applying this principle to the letter and beyond the official languages would block the entire functioning of the union's institutions. on the other hand, we must avoid exploiting the question of so-called minority languages for the purpose of potentially exacerbating it in a nationalist way. the issue of extending the european language proficiency indicator is also discussed. in its current version, it is only intended to measure proficiency in english, french, german, spanish and italian. it is important to avoid that this situation actually misleads and encourages the general learning of only these five languages. not only because of the necessary balance and legitimate scope, but also because the projection of european languages outside europe is a factor of the greatest importance in an era of globalisation, beyond its historical, human and cultural dimensions. the portuguese language - and i will give this example - is the third most widely spoken language in the european union, after english and spanish and before german, french and italian, so, as in written declaration 58, which i am one of the proponents of, i welcome the principle introduced in the report under consideration, that the european indicator of linguistic competence should include all the official languages of the union and, if this proves feasible, the other languages spoken in europe.
today, it is an invaluable milestone for european languages spoken throughout the world, such as portuguese, whose role and importance are recognised by the european parliament. recitals e and f and paragraph 3, which i proposed, establish the high degree of strategic importance to be accorded, within the framework of the european policy of multilingualism, to languages which, like portuguese, have the particular ability to enable direct communication with other parts of the world. this resolution recognises that europe cannot close in on itself but must look to the rest of the world and to the ability to communicate on a global scale. and some languages are precious tools in that regard. a greater balance and strategic sense have been ensured, by giving due value to languages such as portuguese, which have a wide global distribution. the door is open to demanding greater active promotion of the teaching and learning of languages which have this potential and which should thus be promoted in the eu as second, third or fourth languages of learning. i am grateful for the support of my colleagues, the openness of the rapporteur and, in particular, the availability of our shadow rapporteur, erna hennicot-schoepges, whose help was crucial to the successful conclusion of this initiative.
for unice (the largest employer in europe), the agreement reached in the council on the bolkenstein directive represents an 'important' and 'promising' step forward, and it should therefore be 'correctly and timely transposed and implemented', to which unice and its national members - in portugal, the aip and the cip - will 'contribute actively'. this is the view of the representatives of the major economic and financial groups who see in this 'step' new opportunities for exploiting workers and economic domination, undermining the sovereignty of states in defining, protecting and financing public services and in defining the rules for how services in general should be provided, while at the same time strengthening the power of supranational entities over the member states, such as the european commission and the court of justice, by imposing the primacy of competition, with very serious consequences for the rights of workers and the services provided to the population. this is an unacceptable proposal. it must be rejected. finally, it is only necessary to underline the role of the social democrats (socialists) who, with their 'tactical' tricks, helped to whitewash the aims and scope of the proposal for a directive under vote: initially proposing the directive; (pseudo) amending it; finally (re) supporting now what they said they rejected before.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joan i marí report on a new strategic framework for multilingualism despite my reservations about some of the proposals and amendments that have been adopted. i believe that the european strategy for multilingualism should include the teaching and dissemination of 'european languages of universal communication', such as portuguese, which is the third most widely spoken eu language in the world (after english and spanish and before german, french and italian). the uniqueness of the portuguese language, which is spoken by some 200 million citizens in eight countries across five continents, requires a special place in the eu's official languages, a status that is not recognised in this report as it should be. the portuguese language is the most enduring link between the various continents. as a means of communication and the raw material of great poets and prose writers, and also because it is endowed with the dignity conferred by eight hundred years of history.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague bernat joan i marí on his important and timely report on a new strategic framework for multilingualism, which i support, particularly as regards the measures proposed to promote multilingualism in europe. the existence of several languages in europe is a specific feature of the process of european integration and a basic element of european culture. the learning of several languages, in particular the lisbon strategy's goal of 'mother tongue + 2', should be encouraged as a means of facilitating communication between peoples and acceptance of differences between peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because multilingualism is a subject which is dear to me and because i believe that the european union must give a clear and strong signal in favour of linguistic diversity within its borders. more specifically, as regards the european language competence indicator, mentioned in this report and on which i have made a written statement, i repeat the same argument here. the adoption of a language competence indicator is necessary in the absence of real data on the language skills of eu citizens. however, this indicator should not be restricted to the five most widely spoken languages in the eu. the european union must take account of the importance of the other european languages outside europe, which is a major factor in its policy of openness and cooperation with the rest of the world. that is why my vote on amendment no 4 is an insistence that the commission should present a concrete timetable for the extension of the indicator to all the official languages of the european union - as the written statement i have presented advocates.
in writing. i welcome the fact that in the new strategic framework for multilingualism parliament welcomes my contribution to the recognition of the strategic importance and global relevance of the european languages of universal communication. in fact, english is the official language of 350 million people worldwide. for 280 million, the spanish. for 230 million, the portuguese. and for 125 million, the frenchman. these numbers and the geographical dispersion of speakers make clear the importance of european languages as having a global projection and, therefore, the ability to maintain and deepen direct relations and contacts, without mediation, with other parts of the world. on the other hand, i know that the critics of the european option of multilingualism often claim that its cost is one of the factors which should contribute to its elimination and replacement by one or a few working languages. it's useless to deny that the cost exists. but despite the repeated presentation of financial arguments, it should be remembered that this is one of the most typical and noble costs of modern european construction. it's probably a lot cheaper than war. it is also a powerful cultural asset.
in writing. what has just happened with the adoption of this directive is particularly serious. we regret that the proposal to reject the council's common position, which our group has tabled and which we support, has been rejected. what has happened today is a genuine capitulation by the two largest political groups - the pse and the ppe - to their position at the first reading last february. they did not even defend the agreement they had then made and voted on, after the struggles and demonstrations in strasbourg. now they are going back to some of the more negative aspects of the infamous bolkestein directive. what they want is the liberalisation of services, including public services, giving in to the pressure of the big economic and financial groups who see in this 'step' new opportunities for exploiting workers and economic dominance. while seeking to undermine the sovereignty of states in defining, protecting and financing public services, it removes the possibility of defining rules for financing and defending services in general, reinforcing the power of supranational entities such as the european commission. we believe that each country should retain the sovereign right to decide on the public services it wants, their public ownership, their financing and organisation, and the rights of workers and users.
in writing. it took 50 years for the eu to achieve the free movement of services enshrined in the treaty of rome (1957). it's now about to become a reality. with the services directive, the eu is taking another step in the right direction towards facilitating the freedom of establishment and the provision of services in the eu member states provided by the internal market. controversial from the very beginning, when the bolkestein directive was still in force, the final text finally dilutes the initial impetus. i believe, however, that this report has struck the balance between the imperative need to open up the services sector to competition while preserving the european social model. i voted in favour of this directive because i believe that portugal has everything to gain from the benefits of the directive and thus from the full potential of the internal market. the mere fact that a whole set of administrative and legal procedures imposed by national, regional and local authorities has been eliminated has made the directive worth adopting. portuguese companies, especially smes, will be the main beneficiaries. the adoption of the directive also contributes to the achievement of the lisbon strategy's objectives of more growth, more employment and more choice of services for consumers.
in recent years we have seen the erosion of the most important legal instruments for combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the biological and toxic weapons convention is no exception. we are now more vulnerable than ever to devastating terrorist attacks. the main ideas of this resolution - which reflects a remarkable consensus among all the political groups in the european parliament - are decades old and also applicable to other conventions. it can be summed up in three key words: universalization, application, verification. the notorious cluster bombs must be fought like the new anti-personnel mines. these immoral weapons should also be made illegal. the fact that they spread death in a random way and have a low rate of immediate detonation means that long after the conflicts have ended, these bombs continue to kill innocent people. the recent war in lebanon, in which israel left that country mined with hundreds of thousands of cluster bombs, should force our consciences to ban once and for all, as we have already done with anti-personnel mines, the production, transfer and use of all types of cluster bombs. perhaps the mere addition of a new protocol to the existing convention against certain conventional weapons is not enough, perhaps a specific convention is already needed, it does not matter, as long as the european union is mobilized and humanity unites to eradicate these hideous weapons.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, times are changing, needs are changing. the weather is not what it was a few decades ago. throughout the year, successive days of drought alternate with days of torrential rain. 'climate change is not a matter of science fiction,' said kofi annan today at the opening of the climate change conference in nairobi. insurance experts have predicted that economic losses from natural disasters could reach 2.3 trillion euros by 2040. climate change is at the root of the natural disasters that have occurred around the world, leaving a trail of destruction and death. global warming is one of the great problems of our time. citizens must be made aware of the need to take part in preventing these disasters, even though responsibility for and management of natural disasters lies primarily with the country affected and the european union's role is only subsidiary. the community civil protection mechanism needs to be strengthened with more resources and powers. that is what the minister said here. but reinforce how? what does the council intend to do to improve the european civil protection system? does it agree with the creation of a european strategic coordination centre responsible for the collection and dissemination of information on emergency situations and also for providing additional means of rapid mobilisation in response to the various disasters? what does the council intend to do about the barnier report, which has already been referred to here? these are the questions we would like to have answered.
the report by mr von wogau, which i welcome, is ambitious. it is a report which recognises that, despite the progress that has been made in the area of european security and defence, there is still much to be done and i agree with what the rapporteur has said here today; the process of building a security and defence union has the potential to bring european citizens closer together again. the eurobarometer figures are clear: 77% of europeans support a european security and defence policy. even in the united kingdom, where mr van orden comes from, and where some of the most vocal eurosceptics in this house come from, support is 59%. but the ambition of this report has its limits. although it courageously advocates the creation of a european budget also for the union's military activities, although it advocates the strengthening of the role of the european parliament and national parliaments in the scrutiny of european security and defence policy and although it even urges that progress in this area proposed by the constitutional treaty not be set aside, this report merely reiterates support for the initiatives of the council and the commission in the crucial areas of industrial integration and the creation of a european defence equipment market. i regret that this report does not go any further and i am in favour of the introduction of the principle of european preference in the field of defence equipment. what is at stake in the long term is the strategic autonomy of the european union and the european parliament has never been able to present its own vision in this area. madam president, we should not be blinded by the dogma of the market. it is essential that we do not forget what none of our friends and partners around the world do, the strategic and political implications of this industrial area.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the political groups for their important contributions to the preparation of this report, which have made it substantially better. the presence of women in international political life has increased. it is enough to recall chancellor angela merkel, president michelle bachelet, president ellen johnson-sirleaf and prime ministers han myeong-sook of south korea and luisa diogo of mozambique. the european union itself is now presided over by a woman, tarja halonen from finland, but a close look reveals that women's political representation is still unsatisfactory, both at global and european level and in each member state, and gathering the figures to compile this report was not easy, which has a dark meaning. at the global level, despite the beijing declaration and platform for action, despite the millennium development goals, the 191 member countries of the united nations today have only 10 women as heads of state or government and only 16% of parliamentarians worldwide are women. at the un, only 9 women are among the 91 envoys or representatives of the secretary-general. despite security council resolution 1325, adopted six years ago, inequality continues to mark the composition of international bodies and missions involved in conflict prevention and resolution. three weeks ago, the security council held a debate on women, peace and security to gauge progress in the implementation of resolution 1325. all agreed that much remains to be done to turn good intentions and rhetoric into reality. the debate resulted in recommendations to integrate more women into peacekeeping missions and thus improve the effectiveness and operability of such missions. the urgent need for a cultural change in the office of the assistant secretary-general himself, who is responsible for peacekeeping operations, was also advocated. our report contains recommendations which go in the same direction. let's move to the european level. despite resolution 2025 and others in this parliament, and the lisbon strategy, we still do not have a european commission with equal composition and we have only 7 women among the current 107 heads of delegation of the european commission around the world. in the council, there is only one woman among the 14 personal representatives of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. however, qualified, experienced and competent women abound in the member states and in the european institutions. at virtually every level of decision-making, except at the top, there are signs that the glass ceilings are beginning to crack, but they have not yet been broken, because it is indeed only at the top of the ladder, in power, in europe that women continue to be scandalously underrepresented. at national level, the pioneering example is the government of josé luis zapatero in spain. in a world where political engineering has historically tended to obstruct women's participation in the centers of political and economic power, this is a model example. it demonstrates that peer democracy is possible and much depends on enlightened political leadership. the conclusions of this report are simple: inequalities of opportunity at the european and national level require action in all these areas. firstly, the un and its secretary-general, through a human resources policy which should set an example to the world; secondly, the european union, through support for international european women's networks and human resources policies which ensure a balanced presence of men and women in the centres of political and economic decision-making. in this respect, it is positive that the council has just sent a questionnaire to the member states to find out how they have implemented resolution 1325. thirdly, governments should encourage and put forward more female candidates for political positions at national, european and international level, they should ensure that electoral systems produce democratic institutions with balanced representation, no democratic institution should have a composition of less than 40% or more than 60% of any sex. quotas and other balancing mechanisms which are necessary for women today may be necessary for men tomorrow. without equal representation, democracy is incomplete and does not function properly. the impact of laws and measures that allow men and women to better balance and share family and professional responsibilities is also decisive in this respect. finally, political parties should promote women's participation by setting up quotas or other mechanisms to correct the imbalance, including specific training for women to pursue a political career. the momentum for change depends on the quality of party political leadership. for example, in my country, portugal, certain careers were only opened up to women after the fall of the dictatorship in 1974, such as the judiciary, diplomacy and the armed forces and security, professions which could provide many more candidates for all kinds of european and international missions and posts. since 1974, the presence of women in these careers has made extraordinary progress, but the advance is not replicated in the top positions of these careers, such as in government or party decision-making centres. the glass ceilings are evident, despite the overwhelming presence of qualified women in academia, in public administration and in the workforce in general. a parity law impacting the electoral lists of political parties has recently been passed and practical results are expected. there is indeed a way forward and on that way we need to not just focus on numbers, we need to recognise and highlight the qualitative difference that women's representation in politics makes in shaping government agendas, in resolving conflicts in transparency and accountability, in short, in strengthening the rule of law and democracy.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent report, which deals with a very topical and relevant subject, because women are still underrepresented in national and european political life, as indeed they are in the european parliament itself. it is not understood that women are more numerous in universities, that there are more and more women with master's degrees and doctorates and that they have very little access to the decision-making bodies or to economic power. from a certain level, there's always a glass ceiling that prevents them from progressing. parity is a requirement of democracy itself. experience has shown that only a quota system has led to a more equal society, and therefore to a more just and harmonious society. member states need to adopt laws to ensure parity. i will end, madam president, with a rhetorical question: how different would the world be if it were ruled by a majority of women? and would europe be any different?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. human trafficking is the modern form of slavery. it is not a recent phenomenon, but it has been growing in recent years and is assuming alarming proportions. the ilo, for example, estimates that there are some 2.5 million forced workers worldwide. this form of trafficking is already the third most lucrative, right after drug and arms trafficking, and it translates into the sexual exploitation already mentioned here, but also for the purpose of labor under abusive conditions, forced domestic servitude, illegal adoption, forced begging and organ sales. the fight against trafficking in human beings thus becomes a major priority at both community and international level. the ppe congratulates mrs edith bauer on the excellent report she has presented to us. we agree on the need for a coherent european policy to combat trafficking in human beings effectively, covering all aspects of trafficking in human beings, from issues relating to countries of origin, transit and destination, to those who recruit, transport, exploit and other intermediaries, clients and beneficiaries. the protection of victims and witnesses should be ensured and prevention strategies should be promoted. trafficking in human beings is unacceptable and cannot be facilitated by the existence of legislative gaps. the legislation must be clear and comprehensive and implemented and correctly applied by all member states. there must be a legislative platform that provides the basis for more intensive cooperation at international level, and i cannot but regret that the ratification and implementation of various international instruments, such as the un conventions, are proceeding slowly. i would like to appeal to the member states which have not yet done so to take the necessary measures as soon as possible and i commend vice-president frattini for what he has said to us here today and to trigger the infringement mechanisms in respect of those member states which are lagging behind in adapting and transposing community directives.
trafficking in human beings is a heinous crime which degrades the human condition in a particularly insidious way. unfortunately, it has become one of the most lucrative forms of international organized crime, affecting hundreds of thousands of people worldwide every year, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable, the poor, women and children. the fight against this scourge must be a top priority. for this to be successful, international cooperation in the fields of investigation, information exchange, victim identification, law enforcement and reintegration must be strengthened. in this regard, the various member states which have not yet done so should speed up the process of ratifying and implementing the many existing international conventions which can play a decisive role in the progressive eradication of this absolutely intolerable criminal practice. the european union must also strengthen its commitment to promoting initiatives to tackle the causes of such a bad trade, by providing effective support to the weaker countries where much of this trafficking originates. we are all fully aware, as we are discussing this matter here today, of the enormous difficulty of the fight we must wage together, but we are also all aware and very firmly convinced that what is at stake in this fight is a boundary between the dignity and the abjection of the human person, and there is therefore no more urgent fight than this, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, commissioner, the problem of communication between the europe of the institutions and the europe of the citizens has gone on for too long without an answer. europe has not yet formed a political centre capable of attracting and mobilising citizens, capable of engaging them in this time of change. the causes are obvious: the absence of adequate institutional reform, the prevalence of the council's indirect representation power over the parliament's direct representation power, the prevalence of bureaucracy and the secrecy of the offices over genuine publicity and information. as the eurobarometer report points out, citizens regard the european institutions as a distant or even alien freedom. the fact is that a european citizenship, transnational and cosmopolitan, exists only on the impulses of political will, precisely because it lacks the strength of the spontaneity of national citizens. it is therefore urgent to understand the strategic importance of the mass media, it is urgent to include the subject of europe in the curricula of schools, universities and training centres, it is urgent to promote the institution in the media, it is urgent to take the work of the information offices of the commission and parliament in the member states seriously and it is important not to put to sleep the constitutional project of re-founding europe, without serious institutional reform and without an effective information policy, europe will be a giant with feet of clay.
in writing. i declare that i voted against the joint resolution on the situation in gaza. i did so not because i did not find the military excesses against civilians reprehensible, but because i understood that the general content of the declaration contains profoundly negative terms for the state of israel, which has been the victim of constant terrorist aggression, which is by no means justified.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, including by providing the eu with a comprehensive and comprehensive response to the terrorist attacks. rather than proposing the presence of foreign troops in gaza and the west bank, which could promote the maintenance of the status quo, what is required is condemnation of israel for its colonialist policy, the construction of the illegal wall, the systematic repression of the palestinian people, the destruction of infrastructure, all the obstacles it poses to the functioning of the legitimate palestinian authority and the creation of an independent and sovereign palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem.
in writing. the solution to the conflict in the middle east is to defend peace, mutual recognition and to reject violence, terrorism and gratuitous military action. and for the recognition of the right of a democratic state to exist and to defend itself. this resolution does not do that. she's disproportionate when she should be reasonable, blind when she should be clairvoyant. it is not possible to treat terrorist attacks on israel as acts of 'combatants' and accuse israel of massacres; it is not desirable for this parliament to give its opinion on the composition of a democratic government when it asks elected but undemocratic governments to do only the bare minimum: to recognize israel. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i do not support a resolution which seems to conclude that the united states is the cause of the continuing conflict and which threatens, not subtly, to call into question the association agreement with israel at the very moment when it is going to approve an association agreement with syria. the sincere solidarity with the victims, the refusal to accept that the attack on beit hanun should go unpunished, does not make me forget the duty of balance and pass a resolution which is disproportionate and counterproductive.
in writing. the document proposed here deserves my approval because it is both realistic in what it should be and ambitious in what is possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but in his desire for a global approach, not only in the military field but also in the technological, information and intelligence fields, he was ambitious. we must also be concerned about the need to promote peace and the economic development of third countries as a key element for our security and for a better world, which is a good that we must pursue with equal commitment. i therefore vote in favour of this agreement, because i have reviewed the substance of its analyses and concerns, even if i do not share, nor do i consider it necessary to share, all its axioms and conclusions.
in writing. although this report is about women in international politics and deals with a real problem, it should not ignore the constraints which prevent women from participating effectively in political and social life. there is no reference in the text to the economic and social reasons which limit women's participation. for example, it mentions wage inequality and the need to reconcile domestic life with men, but does not mention the objective difficulties, namely working conditions, over-exploitation, low wages, precariousness, part-time work, the lack of affordable social facilities. the approach to the subject ignores class distinctions and puts itself only in the approach of what is going on in the ruling class. there is therefore no explicit reference to economic, employment and social policies. the commission has therefore insisted on something we disagree with in the measures it has presented, such as the system of compulsory quotas, with sanctions for parties, and has ignored the fact that, for example, among the problems and constraints that exist are the objective economic and social conditions and the electoral systems themselves. for example, in portugal the ps has approved the quota system but is preparing to abandon the current electoral system, which in practice may lead to fewer women being elected.
in writing. the participation of women in international politics (and in national politics, the economy, the arts) is a sign of developed and balanced societies. a world of men is a worse place than a world of men and women. but it does not follow that every time a woman is elected, or every time a government is made up of as many women as men, that this in itself is a cause for satisfaction. women are not just women, contrary to what some advocates of quotas and parity seem to believe. fortunately, each of these women is worth what she thinks, does, stands for, and represents. so i do not think it is reasonable to simply praise any woman's election, whoever she is. i do not believe that quotas and the imposition of parity will have the desired effect. balance is a result, not a gesture. and i'm free to speak on this subject. the cds is the only party that has ever had a woman as parliamentary leader, a minister of justice or a general secretary. but it is the merits, not the symbolism, that these women deserve my recognition.
in writing. we consider the report to be generally positive, although we regret that amendments have been adopted which do not contribute to a more consistent fight against trafficking in human beings, especially women. we find it negative that the paragraphs referring to the need to 'criminalize the purchase of another person's body for sexual use' have been removed in order to reduce trafficking for sexual purposes. as several studies indicate, the prohibition of the exploitation of prostitution substantially reduces organised crime and trafficking, in particular of women and children. the report nevertheless maintains a number of positive aspects, such as the need to apply extremely severe sanctions to companies that use cheap labour through trafficking in human beings, or the need for member states to assume their responsibilities towards the victims of trafficking in human beings, in addition to effectively combating money laundering stemming from trafficking in human beings. however, we could have gone further in combating poverty at the source by means of a policy of cooperation with the countries of origin, by supporting their own projects of economic and social development, thus reducing the main causes of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. human trafficking is the modern day version of the slave trade, with aggravating circumstances. here poverty makes the traffickers pay for the traffickers, and the authorities, often with the best of human intentions, enact policies that encourage trafficking and promote the traffickers' business. as is often the case, humanism is on the side of the demand. demand for those who employ, demand for those who arrive, demand for those who stay and, above all, demand and rigor in the enforcement of the law. turning a blind eye to illegal immigration is complicity in human trafficking. i therefore believe that we must unhesitatingly recognise the virtues of legal immigration and, recognising that a lack of firmness in the fight against illegal immigration is the food of human trafficking networks, we must be firm in defending legality. but it's not enough to think about immigration law. an efficient - and humane - approach requires us to seek to promote the success and economic development that we enjoy in the countries of origin of immigration. that is where we must go together.
in writing. this report on a very controversial communication from the european commission concludes by highlighting some of the most negative aspects of the paths being followed, particularly in the area of propaganda, to re-introduce the draft of a so-called european constitution. after the defeat suffered by the european ruling elite in the referendums on the draft constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands, they want to resume the path without further setbacks, betting as much as possible on a propaganda campaign, transforming a necessary democratic communication policy into a real propaganda campaign in the interests of the ruling class. although the report deals with other less controversial aspects, such as sectoral programmes for student youth, the call for intensified parliamentary debates and others, the truth is that the dominant general line is propaganda, especially around the qualitative leap they want to achieve with a so-called european constitution. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. i share in essence the commission's views and concerns on communication policy, particularly as regards the need for transparency and for bringing the public closer, but i think it should be clear that communication policy is not a substance, it is an adjective. and as such it should be understood. the illusion that everything is communication and that communication is everything can lead us to a society of the void, where only the existence of the message matters, with little investment in its content. this means, in my view, that the key to a successful communication policy of the european union lies in the ability of the european union to be visibly useful to the citizens of the member states. i insist on the useful and the visible. because this is where the two issues - substance and communication - come in. the eu must promote political reforms that stimulate economic development, security, international order and hope. that's the substance. communication, that, if the substance is good, is an art, but it is only a part and it is not the most important. and by the way, it's not to be confused with propaganda. i agree with the first, but not the second.
author. the crackdown on youth and on the oromo, amharic and other ethnic groups in ethiopia, the continued arrest and mock trials of elected opposition leaders, trade union leaders, journalists, teachers, human rights and development activists and many other ethiopians fighting for freedom and democracy, the manipulation by the government of meles zenawi and the findings of the commissions of inquiry into the massacre of 193 people in june and november 2005 following protests over electoral fraud, and the persecution of the judges of that commission who refused to be manipulated and were therefore forced to flee the country, the arrest of the jurist bekeleze yawd, serving in the european union delegation, and the expulsion of european diplomats in a blatant and diplomatic violation of the vienna convention, all of these demonstrate the totalitarian nature of the anti-zenawi regime and not only of meles zenawi. they expose the growing weakness and despair of that regime. it is long since the conclusions of the european union election observation mission in 2005 that governments in the council and the commission should have agreed and taken action on the meles zenawi regime. as teshale aberra, one of the judges who had to flee the country, said, meles' government is as bad or worse than menguisto's. ethiopia receives financial aid from the european union, so the european union must demand the immediate release of all political prisoners, it must demand an international inquiry into the 2005 massacres and the bringing to justice of those responsible for those massacres, the union must take the appropriate measures provided for in article 96 of the cotonou agreement, to which ethiopia is a party, as this parliament demands. such measures include the freezing of assets and visas for meles zenawi and members of his government to enter europe. all these measures must be calibrated to target those most responsible and not have a negative impact on the ethiopian people. the governments and the commission must stop justifying their tolerance of this anti-democratic regime which violates human rights by claiming that it is an ally in the fight against terrorism. europeans and americans must stop deceiving themselves. the ethiopian intervention in somalia, under the pretext of fighting terrorism, has only succeeded in entrenching the islamic courts in mogadishu, but the disastrous consequences are not over, for the discredited and unpopular regime of meles zenawi is ethiopia itself, the second most populous country in africa, which is becoming a soft ground for terrorist infiltration.
mr president, commissioner, relocations are usually made to countries where production costs are lower and labour laws are more flexible. here the opposite has happened the relocation has been to a country where production costs are higher and labour laws are stricter. all indications are that this decision was not based on market rules but most likely on the power relations between the company and the trade unions. it seems that we are facing a new type of factor which may influence future relocations, which i would call the relocation of trade union power, but a relocation which is always oriented towards the centre and in favour of the stronger ones. the proliferation of this practice is leading us in a direction which is clearly in contradiction with the essential values of the european project, because it does not respect the rules of the market, it does not stimulate productivity and it breaks the fundamental principles of solidarity and regional and social cohesion. in view of this practice, i fear for the future of the volkswagen plant in portugal, which, if something like this happens, will force us to think seriously about how to prevent a mere group of interests from overriding the normal functioning of the market rules. that's our responsibility.
the threat to the 4,000 volkswagen workers in belgium shows that the multinationals continue to act with the utmost irresponsibility, driven only by the pursuit of ever greater profits, in total indifference to the social and regional development problems they cause, considering the workers mere numbers and pieces of a machine that are only of interest in terms of the profits they can generate. this is an integral part of the process of international trade, labour market liberalization and deregulation supported and encouraged by the european union. the same situation is affecting thousands of workers in portugal, notably at opel/gm in azambuja, johnson controls, lear and many others. it is time to take measures to put an end to this situation once and for all, to ensure that more firm action is taken to defend workers' rights, and to ensure that european works councils are fully involved in the decision-making process, including the right to suspend dismissals and relocations, and that effective action is taken to control the community funds allocated to such multinationals, subject to the respect of all workers' rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. other mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, innovation and knowledge are now being described as a pillar of development in the european union. but for such a statement to have an answer, it is necessary that investment in human resources in the area of science and technology, and especially in young scientists, be seen as crucial and of the utmost relevance in order to achieve the objectives of the lisbon agenda, which we have defined in the next financial package for 2007-2013. the reality is that european minds are leaving the union and are taking refuge, most of the time, in the united states, since they are guaranteed, above all, better working conditions - working conditions, or rather laboratory conditions - and financial conditions. we are therefore starting with a backlog and a deficit and we must therefore work hard to change this scenario. the aim is to be able to secure not only new researchers on this old continent which is in need of new ones, but also to recover many of those we have exported, and to be able to attract researchers from third countries by means of new incentives and mutual recognition of qualifications. i would like to end by making a clear appeal to the researchers, who are the soul of this seventh framework programme, not to have in this framework only the minute that has been given to the employment committee in this debate.
the importance of the pyrotechnics market far exceeds that of the fireworks sector. the bulk of the market is automobile safety equipment, such as airbags and seat belts. fireworks account for 20% of this market, although they have prompted a large number of the amendments to the report i have tabled. the directive also covers marine equipment not covered by international conventions. in addition, a category of pyrotechnic articles for theatrical use was created and those relating to the aeronautical and aerospace industry were excluded, given the entire existing control system. the market value of pyrotechnic articles used in the automotive industry is in the order of eur 5 500 million, while that of fireworks is about eur 1 400 million. ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this directive we have made a significant contribution to the free movement of pyrotechnic products within the european union. on the other hand, we ensure greater safety for consumers and professional users. the harmonization of safety rules between the different member states in the various segments covered contributes to greater consumer confidence and to better product circulation. in any event, the possibility of different rules at national level, in particular those concerning the minimum age for handling certain categories of fireworks, was retained. we also took into account the specific features of malta and certain regions of italy in the use of fireworks by producers themselves at certain religious and cultural events. we are also determined, in view of the importance of imports of pyrotechnic products, especially from china, to place clear responsibilities on importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles, which is particularly relevant for fireworks. the labelling issue deserved our best attention, as did the noise aspects. in the case of vehicles, we have paid close attention to the international dimension of the european automotive parts industries. the deadlines for transposing the directive have been extended to facilitate the establishment or updating, as appropriate, of appropriate and harmonised standards. mr president, it is also worth noting the agreement reached with the european council, despite the technical difficulties created by the initial text of the proposal for a directive and despite the significant cultural differences between several member states, particularly as regards the sale and use of fireworks. ladies and gentlemen, before we close, it is only right that we thank mr oivukkamäki for the role he has played in this process on behalf of the finnish presidency, as well as mr maik schmahl, who is representing the european commission in this process. we cannot forget the work and the follow-up done by mrs weisgerber on behalf of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, by mrs fourtou on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, by mrs rühle on behalf of the green group and by mr brie on behalf of the eu group. the work of president arlene mccarthy was decisive throughout the process, with particular relevance at the trilogue stage. we cannot forget mr ortuondo, rapporteur for the committee on industry, and mr joseph muscat's interest in the whole process. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would therefore urge you to vote on the package of commitments negotiated with the various parliamentary groups, the council and the commission so that we can adopt this directive at first reading. we will thus ensure better protection of consumers and support the competitiveness of the economic sectors covered by this directive.
it is essential that the commission and the member states do not take their words too literally when defending the rights of people with disabilities. it is urgent that practices are more consistent and that existing legislation in this area is effectively complied with, and human rights guaranteed to all. we therefore stress the importance of the recommendations contained in this report by mrs lynne, to whom we pay tribute and to whom we have also contributed some proposals. we call in particular for the effective implementation of the legal framework for equal treatment in employment, access to all public transport and new information technologies and the elimination of architectural barriers. we insist once again on a specific directive on disability based on article 13 of the treaty and on the signing and ratification of the new un convention on disability. i also call for increased attention by the member states to children and young people with disabilities, their education and the inclusion of students with disabilities, where possible, in regular education, but with the specific support appropriate to the special educational needs of the pupils. and finally, a note to call for very special attention to be paid to people with profound disabilities and their families as well.
in writing. this fisheries agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde sets out the fishing opportunities for the fleets of community countries for the period 2006 to 2011 and is an important agreement for tuna fishing, which grants fishing licences to 7 portuguese surface longliners. that's why he deserved our vote in favour. however, this agreement, as with other fisheries agreements with third countries, raises important questions as to the economic viability of long-distance fishing fleets and the real fishing opportunities granted under it, as the commercial nature of these agreements is increasingly being modified, with a stronger partnership and development component. the cost of the agreement is therefore increased by the reduction in fishing opportunities, in particular by reducing the number of licences allocated. the costs to shipowners are also rising from eur 25 to eur 35 per tonne of tuna caught by the fence and longliners, which is exacerbating the difficulties in the use of these licences by shipowners, the supply of the industry at national level and the growing external deficit for fishery products.
in writing. as the actual purpose of the eu fundamental rights agency is being defined, it is becoming increasingly clear that it is intended to create an instrument which will continue to be used to promote eu interference in third countries. hence the proposal, now approved, to include the eu's common foreign and security policy as one of the fields of action of the future agency, opening up space for the use of human rights as an instrument of pressure and interference in the internal situation of other states, in particular by using financial means, according to the criteria and interests of the eu. the eu, which is characterised by its instrumental 'double standards' approach to human rights, whether its 'allies' or its 'enemies' are involved, or rather, depending on the specific situation, whether or not its interests of domination and exploitation and its imperialist ambitions are involved, of which palestine is a shocking example. we therefore reject such proposals, in line with our action in favour of the great causes of freedom, the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, social progress, peace and solidarity among all peoples.
in writing. in anticipation of bulgaria's accession, scheduled for 1 january 2007, the majority of the european parliament approves a report which, for what seems like the umpteenth time, lists the obligations bulgaria will have to meet - criticising, congratulating, insisting - even going so far as to ask this country to do what other member states do not. and for the umpteenth time, the majority of the ep is again using the neoliberal tool, not resisting - it is in its nature - to put the emphasis on privatisation and public tendering and procurement procedures, on promoting the development of the private sector and on more flexible labour laws. the european council also welcomed the fact that the eu had adopted a new strategy for the fight against terrorism, and called on the eu to take action to combat terrorism. that is, the eu and its enlargement without a mask.
in writing. one of the inevitable issues when talking about this 7th framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) is its financing, or in this case its limited financing, as a result of the bad agreement on the financial perspectives for the period 2007-2013, thus demonstrating the lack of coherence between what is proclaimed as the central objectives of the european union and the means available to achieve them. this is a recurring problem, both in the european union and in portugal. however, there are some positive aspects to the outcome of the negotiations between the council and the european parliament, which have now been debated and voted on in the final round, notably the increased participation of funds for small and mediumsized enterprises and the prevention of occupational diseases. however, unfortunately, some of the proposals put forward by our group, particularly those relating to free software, were not adopted.
in writing. the european union has identified the oceans as one of the new strategic priorities on its political agenda. more than a fad, the preservation of the sea and the maritime activities associated with it is now seen as a sine qua non for the prosperity of an increasingly globalised europe. a future europe will have to focus on developing new technologies related to the sea and pioneering new areas. the fisheries sector, given its current weakness, and the preservation of the oceans as a strategic priority for the eu should be given a prominent role in the next community framework and should be a priority for research. the compromise solution found to include fisheries as one of the main themes of the seventh framework programme is an important step towards the preservation of marine ecosystems and the defence of the community fisheries sector. the overall importance of research in europe and the fact that for the first time it gives due weight to research in fisheries, this document deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. the european parliament is responsible for assessing annually the progress made by the european union in creating an area of freedom, security and justice. i am clearly in favour of the idea that the construction of europe cannot and must not be confined to the economic sphere and that, in addition to the europe of goods, capital and services, we must build the europe of citizens. it is important to recognize that many steps and important progress have been made. but the truth also obliges us to recognize that it would be desirable if the pace and scope of measures corresponded better to the needs that everyone recognizes in this area. one of the reasons for the lack of substantial progress lies in institutional issues; the maintenance of many decisions under the third pillar and the requirement of unanimity make it more difficult to adopt the necessary measures. i would also like to emphasize what i consider to be the main innovation adopted this year: the legal basis for the second generation of the schengen information system. i think it is desirable that sis ii should be operational as soon as possible and i believe that the european commission should report to the european parliament on any delays that occur in the meantime and the reasons for them.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the illegal transfer of data from the eu to the us. hence the numerous proposals to transfer justice and home affairs from the sovereign competence of states and their institutions to the supranational level of the eu, such as the proposal to 'transfer to the community framework the provisions on police cooperation (including europol) and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (including eurojust) ' or the 'extension of co-decision with parliament and qualified majority in the council' to immigration. that's why i'm voting against it. the majority of the ep rejected the inclusion in the resolution of our group's proposals deploring immigration detention centres, demanding respect for the right to asylum, respect for the un convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families and advocating that financial means should be used to improve asylum systems, integrate immigrants and tackle the root causes of immigration, rather than promoting detention and repatriation policies.
in writing. the various forms of discrimination and injustice faced by people with disabilities and their families are well known. despite the progress already made, much remains to be done, one of the key points being the need to strengthen public policies to ensure the effective realisation of equal rights. more investment is needed in public health, education, social security and employment policies that ensure free and open access to quality services, that promote social inclusion, and that combat poverty and exclusion. the report adopted today refers to a number of areas where action by the member states could be improved. we also consider important the call which the european parliament has just made for the adoption of a specific directive on disability and for the ratification and signing of the recently adopted united nations international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. that is why we are voting in favour of the resolution which has been adopted, hoping that it will now be given full attention.
in writing. it is gratifying to see a trend in the eu towards the gradual elimination of many forms of discrimination faced by disabled people. in employment, the main constraints faced by disabled workers are related to the prejudices of employers, access to information and communication technologies and the use of public transport to get to work. the main consequence of these physical barriers is the high level of unemployment among these workers. i therefore advocate specific action at european and national level to concentrate support on services aimed at the integration and participation of people with disabilities in society, education, vocational training and the labour market. i support this report because it advocates, for example, the promotion of accessibility for people with disabilities to the internet, including the websites of public institutions. i regret that in portugal the socialist government is taking the exact opposite course, advocating in the 2007 state budget a tax increase on disability pensions for people with disabilities and a reduction in tax benefits.
in writing. while the measures to reduce bureaucracy and simplify administration, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises - provided they do not mean 'simplifying' existing procedures for the protection of workers - and the measures to improve access to finance are positive, we consider the path indicated in this report to be dangerous. the increasing emphasis on the link between education/education systems and the business world is worrying, as it will lead to the commodification of education and the replacement of citizenship education with workforce education. at the same time, 'entrepreneurship' is emerging as the solution to the problems of unemployment in the european union, which is combined with an attempt to validate the notion of 'employability' by referring only to individual responsibility what is the responsibility of the state, going against the notion presented in the draft of the european constitution. the same is true of the 'inevitability' of the increase in the retirement age, which is undermining the rights of people, both those who are working and those of young people seeking work, which are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. finally, the emphasis on public-private partnerships, which are generally the means used to hand over to the private sector important areas which, by their nature and social character, belong to the public domain. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. i supported this report because it made excellence the key to the eu's success in competing in the global market. it is by fostering a culture of innovation and research that the eu can mobilise advantages over international competition. in this direction, the eu must, by all means in its power, promote entrepreneurship and smes in particular, because: - they play a key role in the european economy, contributing to stronger and more sustainable growth; - they are responsible for about 95% of the jobs created;- they can serve as an effective meeting point between universities and businesses;- they provide a vital link between the realities of production and its territorial dimension, helping to manage the phenomena of relocation. despite this key contribution to economic growth, smes continue to face obstacles. non-wage costs are one of the biggest obstacles faced by smes, which often fail to create jobs because they are unable to meet the administrative requirements that this implies. smes continue to be affected by bureaucratic obstacles, including in access to the capital market, community programmes and structural funds.
as the commission is aware, in the atlantic islands of madeira and porto santo, the air transport service remains a public service with the payment of compensatory compensation by the portuguese state to the company providing it exclusively. recently, a high fare has been charged to passengers on flights between the islands and the portuguese mainland to cope with the increase in oil prices. in our view, this decision by the portuguese government is questionable because it is contrary to the spirit of the council regulation which regulates this type of public service obligation and that is why i am bringing it here. but not only that, it is now that the price of oil is falling and the euro is rising that it is decided to make the passengers of these flights pay the increase in fuel prices, thus accentuating their difficult mobility? the portuguese government and the community authorities are also aware that madeira and porto santo have no alternative sea link for passengers to the mainland. these are more than enough reasons for this parliament and the commission to look carefully and vigilantly at this measure which penalizes the citizens of one of the outermost regions of the european union. we would like to see this clarified and properly amended, and i therefore call the attention of the commissioner here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the following reports are discussed together:- by ms janelly fourtou, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the community customs code (modernised customs code) [com ((2005) 0608 - c6-0419/2005 - 2005/0246 ((cod)) ] (a6-0429/2006); and- by ms janelly fourtou, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing an action programme in the customs field in the community (customs 2013) [com (2006) 0201 ((c6-0158/2006 - 2006/7500 ((cod)) ] (a6-0428/2006).
mr president, i extend a special greeting to you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. i would naturally like to welcome this initiative and also congratulate the rapporteurs on the quality of the work they have done. i welcome this initiative, which is of the utmost importance, given that the code currently in force dates back to 1992. its modernisation was necessary to reflect the changes that had occurred in the meantime and to react to many of these changes. there are two aspects which i think are essential: firstly, this new code makes it possible to contribute to the promotion of international trade because, by simplifying processes, it can lead to an increase in the competitiveness of european companies and thus contribute to the strengthening of economic growth. in this sense, openness to new technologies, the exploitation and even the imposition of the use of new technologies is a very significant advance which can certainly contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy. however, there is a second aspect which cannot be overlooked and which has to do with the new nature of the functions assigned to customs in modern times. this aspect has to do with the need to increase safety at various levels in order to protect public health, ensure food safety and combat more effectively phenomena such as money laundering, counterfeiting and fraud. in short, to better protect consumers. in conclusion, i would like to stress the following: the commission's proposal is aimed at safeguarding the interests of europeans both as producers and as consumers, and it deserves our full support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the following is the report by mrs kathy sinnott, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a council recommendation on injury prevention and safety promotion (com (2006) 0329 - c6-0238/2006 - 2006/0106 (cns)) (a6-0398/2006).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures show that it is necessary to alert citizens to the consequences of risky behaviour. how many road accidents are not caused by alcoholism or drug abuse? and how many serious injuries to children result from carelessness on the part of adults? the ingestion of toxic products, for example, such as detergents or medicines? every year some 235,000 european citizens die as a result of injuries resulting from accidents or violence, which represents more than 600,000 fatalities per day in the european union alone. these are frightening figures for the suffering and personal tragedy they represent, but also for the social and budgetary costs. it is a fact that accidents and injuries represent enormous human costs, premature death and years of disability, but also high costs in terms of health care and damage to society due to loss of productivity. injuries can, however, be prevented. to do this, healthier lifestyles and safer living conditions are essential. better to prevent than to cure. the risk of injury is not distributed equally across all member states or across all social groups. risk factors are also determined by the home and work environment itself. age and gender should also be taken into account. that is why i have tabled an amendment to ensure that the gender perspective is mainstreamed in all areas, including health policy. this requires quantitative gender studies and the allocation of resources according to the principle of gender budgeting, because, as has already been said, domestic violence, violence against women, is also an important cause of injuries which are first and foremost serious for women but also for society as a whole.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the union.
the report i am presenting on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development welcomes the european commission's proposal for the possibility of adopting multiannual programmes to be submitted by the member states and the updating of some of the instruments accompanying community animal health policy. however, it considers that some of the measures contained in the proposal to amend council decision 90/424/eec are insufficient. we therefore insist on 12 amendments aimed at achieving five essential objectives: the first, noting that there is little knowledge of the state of play of the programmes for the eradication, control and monitoring of certain animal diseases in the various member states, is to propose that the commission submit every four years to the european parliament and the council a report on the animal health situation and the cost-effectiveness of the implementation of the programmes in the various member states, including an explanation of the criteria adopted. secondly, given that there are different attitudes and behaviour towards the same diseases in several neighbouring member states, which may affect the effectiveness of the measures adopted, it is proposed to support actions to disseminate good practice and to encourage the presentation of joint programmes from two or more member states in border areas, where this is important for the control of contagious animal diseases, including zoonoses, and for their surveillance and eradication. thirdly, in the face of emergency situations requiring sudden and unpredictable expenditure of very high financial resources, insist that the respective financing proposals are always made, which should not be subject to the deadlines referred to in this decision, which, in any case, should slightly increase the deadlines provided for by the european commission. take the example of the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the uk in 2000. in the case of these diseases, the measures imposed are all the more effective the earlier and more radical their application. this requires a minimum financial reserve to meet these sudden, insidious and unpredictable disasters. fourthly, we propose to complete the list annexed to the decision by including the animal contagious diseases for which community financial support may be granted, contrary to the commission proposal which seeks to reduce that list. the proposal contained in this report from the committee on agriculture adds eight diseases to the existing ones and proposes a few more in order to ensure that funding is also provided for their control and eradication. the proposal is of the utmost importance, since it is known that there are several countries where eradication programmes are under way and should not be interrupted. in portugal, for example, a situation i know better, bovine leucosis is a disease which has had eradication programmes for some twenty years and is in the final stage of its final eradication. very few cases of leukaemia have been found in the last year, and it is estimated that one more year of campaigning will allow the disease to be eradicated once and for all. the fact that this disease is not eligible for funding could jeopardise all the efforts made and lead to its uncontrolled resurgence. another case is newcastle disease, endemic in wild birds, which can be transmitted to unvaccinated poultry at any time. the economic consequences of this disease for poultry farming would be devastating. the aujeszky's disease of pigs, which the commission wanted to exclude, is also covered by a programme for portugal, and its non-eradication is due to the impossibility of sending pigs to some markets. other diseases such as swine brucellosis, which are not included in the list proposed by the commission, are diseases which can cause the same type of problems to trade, the latter being endemic in the mediterranean basin. fifthly, the commission also proposes, in the name of simplifying the legislation in force, the repeal of decision 90/638/eec laying down community criteria for the eradication and monitoring of certain animal diseases, replacing them by the new technical criteria contained in the annexes to the new decision which we are considering and which the commission wants to convert later into standard criteria and requirements. in this report we propose a new opinion from the european parliament in the event of a change in the criteria in force. finally, mr president, i would just like to thank everyone who has contributed to the preparation of this report and hope that the commission will take due account of the proposals put forward to help improve animal health.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, the european commission's proposal to reform the common organisation of the market in bananas is part of the liberalisation of the agricultural sector at the level of the european union and in the context of the world trade organisation. the commission intends to implement the decoupling of production aid from the single payment scheme by abolishing compensatory aid which helps to stabilise prices and to guarantee, albeit partially, producers' incomes. the posei option covers the current aid under the posei programmes for banana producers in the outermost regions: madeira, the azores, martinique, guadeloupe and the canary islands. the commission proposal also aims to save money by stabilizing budgetary expenditure on the common agricultural policy. if the aim is to promote the guarantee of income and a fair standard of living for banana producers, it is not clear how the commission's proposals improve the current common agricultural policy. quite the opposite! as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to reaffirm the socioeconomic importance of the banana sector for the outermost regions and its contribution to the objective of economic and social cohesion, by the income and employment it generates, by the economic activities it promotes upstream and downstream, and by the maintenance of the ecological and landscape balance which contributes to the development of tourism. the amendments tabled by this parliamentary committee, some of which are reflected in this report, are essentially aimed at reducing some of the negative aspects of the commission's proposal by seeking to ensure the protection of producers, ensure the development of the sector, ensure the application of a system of advances and continue support for producer organisations, in particular to promote marketing, as well as the mandatory carrying out of interim evaluations of the application of the new measures in order to ensure the level of incomes, employment and the economic situation of the sector, and finally propose a dissociation of only part of the aid.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal, as amended by the report by mr jean-claude fruteau, whom i congratulate on the quality of his work, deserves my full support in view of the objectives pursued, which are the following: maintaining community banana production by the indispensable contribution it makes in terms of employment, economic and social development and environmental protection in the producing regions and, in particular, in the outermost regions. secondly, the safeguarding of the incomes of banana producers and the economic situation of the banana sector. thirdly, the allocation of capacity to banana-producing member states to manage the granting of aid more effectively and taking into account the specific priorities of these regions. the provision of a specific report by 2009 in the event of changes in producers' incomes, in particular as a result of the change in the tariff. i do not think, commissioner, that it is acceptable to make it compulsory for producers to be members of a producer organisation in order to receive aid. it seems to me more appropriate that the member states should decide whether the requirement of compulsory application is necessary. i therefore propose that this be taken into account and that the council approve it accordingly.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal for a reform of the system of aid for banana producers is the very expression, in the agricultural field, of the application of article 299 (2), which requires a specific treatment for the very specific situation of the outermost regions. in the outermost regions, banana production is of unquestionable economic, social and, in particular, environmental importance. it is therefore important to ensure this production. this reform is aimed at this objective. i therefore congratulate the commission on setting a good example: the management of support by the posei programmes, greater flexibility for the member states to distribute these resources and the end of the isolation of producers from the market, the signs of which must now be taken into account. a final note on the importance of the commission's very close monitoring of developments in the sector, in particular of any change in marketing conditions which adversely affects the producers' income, a situation to which the commission should respond appropriately by taking the necessary measures.
in writing. this regulation sets out how to tackle and combat diseases such as bse and scrapie which affect ruminants in general. firstly, the number of categories of risk for bse has been reduced from five to three, in accordance with the recommendations of the world organisation for animal health. the use of animal protein in the feed of ruminants is prohibited, but a limit is set for the amount of animal protein to be considered insignificant in the feed. the report also calls for a review of the rules on the use of mechanically processed meat for human consumption, including new rules for better consumer information. in order to avoid mass slaughter and the consequent loss of the producer, the use of animals until the end of their productive life is also defined, obviously subject to very strict control conditions, since there are no scientific data to say that bse is transmitted through milk or from cows to their offspring. the programmes for the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies are left on a voluntary basis and a regular evaluation of the scientific results of these programmes is foreseen. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. the proposal, which has been submitted for second reading, differs from the legislation in force on the subject in three fundamental respects. the proposal is to provide annual data instead of monthly data. recent studies have shown that monthly data submitted up to six months after the reference month are of little use for day-to-day market monitoring, whereas annual data can be used for medium- to long-term market analyses and reduce the workload of national entities in submitting the data. it is also intended that the reporting of data should be made by flag (or nationality) of the vessels responsible for landings. this requirement, as opposed to the current submission of data by eu, efta and other vessels, will allow for more detailed data analyses, but will not significantly increase the workload of national authorities already collecting data at this level of detail. finally, this proposal for a regulation aims to make a more flexible approach to the use of sampling techniques for estimating total landings. national authorities will be allowed to use an appropriate level of sampling techniques for data collection, provided they justify their use and analyse the quality of the resulting data in a methodological report... (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the new information and communication technologies have raised relevant questions concerning the protection of minors and human dignity, because of the amount of illegal, harmful and undesirable content that we can easily find on the internet. this issue also seems to attract a desire for regulation which has encountered technical and legal difficulties. the measures for the protection of minors and human dignity are unquestionably necessary. it is therefore necessary to know and assess these new realities and not to disregard the advances these technologies have brought to our societies, with mostly positive consequences for the quality of life, not only of the richest but also of the poorest. in fact, universal access to information also provides the poorest with quicker access to solutions to everyday problems. the recommendations proposed here are therefore very sensible measures to be taken to protect minors and to disseminate them in our societies by raising awareness among parents and educators or by exchanging experience between the regulatory authorities on the classification of audiovisual content. the reason is that children are consumers from a very early age and have, from a very early age, the greatest facility in using these technologies.
in writing. the commission's initial proposal for a regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation was unacceptable to parliament as it called into question its power of co-decision and the very principles of development policy. however, following the amendments introduced by parliament, i support the final regulation text which provides, in particular, for time-limited legislation (2013) and a mid-term review process (2009), the creation of a specific instrument for development policy - the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) - distinct from the policy of cooperation with industrialised countries, a single legal basis, the non-abrogation of parliament's right to define development policy in the framework of co-decision and the drawing up of more detailed financial provisions.
in writing. what is true of the importance of promoting human rights and democracy in the eu's foreign policy is, mutatis mutandis, true of promoting development. every time the european union, in the context of external cooperation, stimulates the growth and development of third countries, it is promoting a better world and, it must be admitted, it is also promoting its own interests. a fact which in no way diminishes the virtues of the gesture. on the contrary, i did. in particular, in the chapter on illegal immigration, it must be stressed that this is one of the most powerful weapons at our disposal, particularly when used against our neighbours. in the development chapter, as in the chapter on democracy and human rights, what is good for some is good for others.
in writing. the fact that the european union explicitly links its foreign policy with the promotion of human rights and democracy is a fact to be noted and praised. i am convinced, however, that not everyone in the european parliament - and in other community institutions - will have the same idea of what human rights are being violated and where democracy is and where it is not. perhaps it would be better to ignore this issue at this time, but to do so would only mask reality, not improve it. that said, i would like to emphasize the first point. the expansion of democracy and the defence of human rights is an intrinsic good that benefits the peoples of countries where there is no democracy or respect for human rights, of neighbouring countries (which is why its promotion in our neighbourhood is so important) and of the world in general. for these reasons, and with the reservations mentioned, the report in question deserves my support.
in writing. the high number of injuries resulting from accidents or violence in the different member states remains a matter of concern. we therefore consider it important to focus attention on the causes of these injuries: under what circumstances they occur, why, when and where they occur. it is known that there are many factors that cause injury: social, economic and cultural factors. the more we understand these aspects, the greater and, above all, the better the action we can take to prevent them from occurring. that is why the report adopted today puts the emphasis on prevention. information gathering could therefore be the first step. however, it is essential to improve the living conditions of the population: maintaining a public health policy, ensuring access to it for all, regardless of their economic situation, a quality public education, reducing/eliminating inequalities, among others. accidents and injuries represent enormous human costs, premature death and years of disability, but also high costs in terms of health care and damage to society due to loss of productivity. injuries can, however, be prevented. this requires the adoption of healthier lifestyles and public policies that help to make living conditions safer. better to prevent than to cure.
television lives on the combination of three conflicting interests: that of the creators, that of the operators and that of the viewers. the committee on culture has voted for a solution which i consider to be overall balanced. it's not my tv, but it's a tv with rules. unfortunately, under pressure from the commission and some operators, proposals are now being put forward in the house which are undermining this balance to the detriment of viewers. as regards product placement, the current wording is reasonable. it is generally forbidden with exceptions which the member states may allow, but last-minute pressures are now driving the epp and the liberals to amend against what they had previously accepted, and we do not agree with this. the committee on culture also voted for product placement programmes to be marked in the name of consumer protection, but a sign that only appears every 20 minutes does not inform or protect. for example, no one imagines that in a violent film the warning can only appear at the beginning of the film or before the intermission. as for the commercial breaks, we have differentiated between 45 and 30 minutes depending on the type of programme. it is a good solution, do not change it and also avoid the excesses of moral prohibitionism, as mr guardans has well illustrated.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the following joint debate is to follow on the reports:- by mr james elles and mr louis grech, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007 as amended by the council (all sections) (15637/2006 c6-0442/2006 2006/2018 bud) 2006/2018 bud) and on the letters of amendment 1/2007 (sec ((2006) 0762), 2/2007 (13886/2006 - c6-0341/2006) and 3/2007 (15636/2006 - c6-0443/2006) to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007, section i - european parliament, section ii - council, section iii - commission, section iv - court of justice, section v - court of auditors, section vi - european economic and social committee, section vii - committee of the regions, section viii - a) - prorogation of justice, section viii - european court of justice (com (2006) 0446) - proposal for a council regulation (eu) amending regulation (ec) no 1601/2006 on the general budget of the european communities for the financial year 2006 (com (2006) 0446) - c6-0351/2006 - c6-06-06-06-07-07-07-08 b) on behalf of the commission, mr giovanni pittone, on behalf of the committee on budgets, mr ingeborg, mr ingeborg, on the proposal for a regulation (eu) no 1601/2006 (com (2006) 0446-06-06-06-06-06a) on the general budget of the european commission, on the establishment of the european union, on the general budget for the financial year 2006, which amended by mr ingebusts, mr giovanni b b b borrell, on behalf of the european
i also regret having to conduct this debate in such restricted conditions. i would remind you that if there is time at the end of the debate, mr james elles may request an additional statement. i am aware that i interrupted you at the end of the speech. i do not think that anything substantial has been left unsaid by mr james elles, the member and rapporteur.
i would like to congratulate our colleague ingeborg gräßle, commissioner grybauskaitè and of course the council on the success of the negotiations on a new financial regulation. there is indeed a very important matter on which we must congratulate above all the hard work, persistence and tenacity of our rapporteur. but i would like to say that in the coming years we will have to make a rigorous assessment of the effectiveness of this financial regulation, to see to what extent the rules it contains are or are not exaggerated and that they are not also behind an abnormally high level of material errors which are detected every year by the court of auditors. we must have a financial regulation which naturally requires respect for budgetary discipline and the efficient use of budgetary resources, but we cannot have a regulation which causes endless errors and which puts us in the extremely embarrassing situation we are in with regard to the discharge procedure in which the court of auditors systematically does not give its assent to our accounts. i therefore wish to conclude by wishing the commission and our rapporteur to continue the work they have done so far.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in an attempt to deal with social emergencies in the member states of the union. the economic scourge of unemployment caused by the phenomena of globalisation is clearly one of these emergencies. with 19 million unemployed, we have to find solutions. this fund will be financed from the unused amounts of the other headings up to a maximum of eur 500 million per year, it will not have its own financing line, nor will it be able to request the advance of the fund for the following year, as happens with the solidarity fund. this is a serious matter, because we can thus leave behind situations which are clearly eligible but for which there is no financial availability. i consider this regulation to be a positive one overall. i cannot, however, fail to express my scepticism about the strict eligibility criteria laid down in article 2. we have managed to include a flexibility clause, but i am afraid that it is not sufficient to protect the situations of smaller countries or regions where, although the quantitative criterion is not met, the impact felt is extremely serious. it is urgent to contribute to an instrument which will work to preserve the european matrix, which is the european social model. to do this we must support our own workers with the globalisation adjustment fund and support workers from the rest of the world by putting social criteria as a barrier when importing certain products into the european area. only then will we be able to defend our social model and promote the interests of millions of citizens around the world by advocating fairer trade. a final note is that it is urgent to respond in a timely manner to the serious economic and social problems caused by this phenomenon.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the commission's proposal is merely a palliative to the serious problem of the consequences of globalisation in several member states. it is well known that restructuring and relocation of multinational companies alone are causing many thousands of unemployed and blocking the development of vast regions in several countries where there are no employment alternatives. apart from the obvious insufficiency of the proposed global amount, conditions are laid down which prevent its use in practice in countries such as portugal, which is experiencing a serious situation of relocation of factories of multinationals. by not allowing the fund to be used when there are restructuring and relocations within the european union, support is being prevented for workers in the known cases of opel-azambuja, which is going to relocate to spain, and the same could happen to others, such as johnson controls, which is threatening to go to romania, lear and so many others who are relocating to poland and other countries of the european union. so in reality this fund is a symbolic measure with no solutions. its budget is limited and the eligibility criteria are restrictive. the european commission estimates that between 35,000 and 50,000 workers could benefit from the fund, but it was not until 2005 that the number of workers made redundant as a result of restructuring exceeded 570,000, the majority of whom were restructuring within the european union. so, despite being pompously dubbed the 'global adjustment fund', it is nothing more than an attempt to hide the serious consequences for workers of the neoliberal policies pursued and implemented by the european union. the fund is not intended to prevent layoffs, factory closures, relocations, the pursuit of maximum profit at all costs, treating workers as mere numbers to be killed. the aim is simply to ease the conscience of those who promote such actions.
mr president, globalisation is the mark of our time and must be seen as a positive phenomenon, because it allows everyone to connect with everyone else, and that is good. globalization has also lifted millions out of poverty, and that is good too. in living with globalisation, europe is doing what it has always done well: opening up to other cultures. but today we must be aware that globalisation also brings with it some worrying aspects, especially for some regions of europe. the decision to create the globalisation fund, taken simultaneously by the three most important institutions of the european union, has a political connotation. for the first time, the three institutions acknowledge the existence of negative aspects of globalisation in the european area. with the closure of industrial units there are clear signs of widespread concern in layers of our societies. so we see that the concern of people today is not even to fight for more rights, but to try at least to maintain the status quo. for large sections of our society there is a feeling, which i am not afraid to call a certain fear, the fear of the future. but i think fears can only be overcome by a willingness to change. when people are restless and fearful it is very difficult to accept any kind of change. this fund, in my reading, is above all a way of helping to mobilise the most vulnerable workers for change. in my view, this instrument is not, nor does it intend to be, the miracle solution to redundancies, restructuring, closures and relocations of companies. the reason for this fund is only about people who are in a very vulnerable situation and we want them to find, as quickly as possible, a high degree of self-esteem. i congratulate the rapporteur and support this report.
i would like to make an oral amendment to amendment no 22 and to the original french text, instead of 'est subordiné' it should read 'devrait être subordiné'.
in writing. we abstained from the compromise vote, which was agreed by the two largest political groups in the ep (epp and pse), because we believe that it does not meet the legitimate rights and concerns of consumers, small and mediumsized enterprises, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment. we believe that the necessary balance between the protection of workers' health, the protection of the environment and industrial development has not been fully achieved. the rights of consumers were not properly safeguarded, with the restriction of the right to information, the right to health of workers, by not making available information on the potential harmful effects on health of the materials they handle. it also fails to take due account of micro and smes, by inevitably increasing the costs of registration of substances without adequate support, and even of large companies that have already expressed a desire to replace hazardous chemicals. however, we welcome the shift in the burden of proof to industry, which was the origin of the reach objectives, and which has been achieved. but we regret that some of the amendments tabled by our group were not accepted, including the possibility for member states to introduce more restrictive measures if they so wish.
in writing. five years on, the european union finally seems ready to legislate on this important matter. after all this time it is clear that the option of voting in favour of a compromise, even if not fully supporting it, is necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, we must follow the interests of consumers, for they are as concerned with maintaining a competitive industry as with protecting the environment. our vote in favour is therefore justified. that said, there's another note to add: five years is too long. we sometimes waste time on matters that do not have the size and significance of this issue, and we sometimes lack the time to apply our commitment to what is most important for our economy. this is, i believe, a point we should bear in mind when we discuss the problems of the european union.
in writing. the new chemicals regulation aims to establish a system for the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals with which we come into contact on a daily basis. this new proposal seeks to fill serious gaps in our current knowledge of chemicals on the market, while at the same time trying to boost european industry and provide greater protection for human health and the environment. although animal testing cannot be avoided, measures have been proposed to ensure the minimum possible increase, such as the one substance one registration (osor) system, which will avoid unnecessary duplication of testing. as regards red tape and costs for smes, the quantity produced/imported approach ensures a lower level of requirement for smes, the submission of a replacement plan should give companies sufficient time to adapt and prepare for the change, the most dangerous chemicals have been phased out and intellectual property has been properly protected. the maintenance of the principle of substitution, even if by means of a plan, is the guarantee that in the near future we will have a world, or at least a europe, with fewer dangerous chemicals. the psd meps therefore support the report by guido sacconi... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of the sacconi report on the amendment of directive 67/548/eec on dangerous substances (reach) at second reading, because i consider the common position adopted by the council to be a good agreement, which will benefit the citizens of the european union. i think this is a moderate legislative proposal which has sought to strike a balance between safeguarding the legitimate interests of industry, particularly smes, and the necessary protection of the environment and public health. the reach regulation will ensure, as from june 2007, that substances of very high concern from an environmental and public health point of view are replaced wherever possible by safer alternative substances or technologies.
in writing. the low budgetary implementation of the structural and cohesion funds is one of the reasons for presenting this amending budget for 2006. the commission is proposing to cancel eur 2.5 billion in payment appropriations under these budget lines: eur 1.5 billion for the erdf, eur 500 million for the esf and eur 500 million for the cohesion fund. regardless of the situation underlying the commission's proposal to cancel cohesion policy appropriations for this reduction, we find that this is a common practice. it is therefore important to look seriously at the reasons for this reduced budgetary implementation and not to allow this proper assessment - for example, on the impact of the nominal criteria enshrined in the stability pact on public investment in the different member states, as well as on the reduction of member states' contributions to the community budget - to be used as an argument for reducing the funds provided annually in the community budget for the structural and cohesion funds.
in writing. the aim is to amend this directive on the grounds of the evolution of television, but the question is how to guarantee the profitability of private television stations. there are several studies that show that people see fewer and fewer ads, since they can change channels, and therefore the times when the advertisements are broadcast are increasingly coincident across the various channels. thus, advertising revenue is not as high as it used to be, since the channels cannot guarantee the audiences to those who pay, and everything on television is measured in percentage of audiences. so we have to reinvent advertising to keep it profitable, such as through product placement, split screen, telemarketing, virtual advertising and interactive advertising. the same applies to the programme time at the end of which advertising may be broadcast. there have also been several proposals concerning advertising of high-calorie food and drink when children's programmes are broadcast. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. by resisting all regulation, all imposition, all control, the european parliament has been able to make a positive contribution to this proposal for a directive. of course, in the search for balances and compromises, some relevant aspects have been left behind or have been less well regulated - in the case of non-linear services, i believe that more is being done than is necessary at this stage of knowledge and experience on the subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the case of broadcasting, the power of the consumer is increasing. which, as a positive fact, should be taken more into account. the rule should be to make the facts clear to the consumer and then let him act. in the light of these observations, i believe, however, that the interests of consumers and industry have been duly safeguarded in the main, and that the vote in favour is therefore fully justified.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will undoubtedly be a valuable financial instrument to respond at european level to the loss of jobs resulting from the opening up of markets and the increase in international competitive pressure. one of the main adverse effects of (economic) globalisation, in addition to the recognised benefits. i regret, however, that the purpose of the establishment of the egf, as proposed by the commission, is to enable the community to provide targeted support for the reintegration into employment of workers who have lost their jobs only because of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it does not, therefore, grasp the phenomenon of globalisation. it ignores that, in addition to the liberalisation of world trade, the liberalisation of capital movements and the deregulation of markets - which are also factors driving this phenomenon - may also be at the origin of the redundancies associated with globalisation. i have therefore tabled several amendments to the proposal, as part of the opinion of the committee on regional development, which is chaired by mrs jamila madeira. the report in question, while maintaining the scope of the egf, introduces a number of amendments to the commission proposal which significantly improve, complete and clarify it. that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. unfortunately, the proposals we have put forward to improve the eligibility criteria and, above all, the possibility of granting aid in the event of relocation outside the european union have not been adopted, which could create a feeling of injustice among workers made redundant as a result of relocation or restructuring within the european union. the rejection of our proposals has made it clearer that by creating this fund the european union wants to give the impression to workers that it is committed to combating the negative effects of globalisation, but in reality it is a symbolic measure with no solutions. its budget is limited and the eligibility criteria are restrictive. the commission itself estimates that between 35 000 and 50 000 workers could benefit from this fund, but only up to 2005 the number of workers made redundant as a result of restructuring exceeded 57 000 and the majority of these were restructuring within the european union, which, according to the fund's criteria, are not eligible. we therefore abstained from the final vote.
in writing. the proposal we voted on today provides for the revision of the current emission limits for motor vehicles and also for the inclusion of vehicles running on biofuels. new technologies and scientific discoveries allow us to aim for a high level of environmental protection, which allows us to bet on these new segments of the automobile market. we cannot ignore the environmental challenges we face today, nor should we ignore that there is a new market developing in the area of clean fuels. for these reasons, information to consumers about the least polluting vehicles or about vehicle repair and also about new products that manufacturers put on the market are important measures for protection and investment in the society of the future. once again, the functioning of the internal market, the promotion of environmentally sustainable development and the improvement of the living conditions of citizens are at stake. i therefore voted in favour of mr groote's report.
in writing. the commission proposal, as amended by this report, deserves my full support, because its objectives, reinforced by the amendments introduced, are: - to maintain community banana production, the main agricultural activity in some of the producing regions - particularly in the outermost regions - in which it plays a key socioeconomic role; - to safeguard the incomes of community producers and the economic situation of the banana sector, in particular following changes in the external regime; and - to enable banana-producing member states to manage the granting of aid to producers with a view to more effective use of the aid in accordance with the priorities and specificities of these regions. i therefore voted in favour of the report. however, disagreeing with the intention to maintain the requirement of membership of a recognised producer organisation in order to receive aid - in fact, both from european banana producers (members of the apeb) and from the authorities of the ors and the producing member states - because i considered it contradictory and contrary to the latter objective, i proposed an amendment to leave it to the decision of the relevant member states whether or not to require such a requirement, in line with the commission's proposal.
in writing. we are against the decoupling of production aid and this is the essence of the commission's proposal for reform of the banana sector, which aims to end compensation for producers and promote the liberalisation of the sector within the framework of the wto. although the present system is insufficient, we would prefer it to be maintained or reformed in such a way as to really address the problems of banana producers, concentrated in the eu's outermost and most disadvantaged regions. we welcome the adoption of our amendments to ensure that (1) the system of annual advances on aid is maintained for the whole period and (2) that there is an evaluation report on the impact of the regulation on producers' incomes. we regret the rejection of our amendments proposing (1) a one-year transitional period for the entry into force of the regulation and (2) the reduction of the reference period for the calculation of aid from 2005 to 2004. we believe that the report improves some substantial aspects of the commission's proposal by proposing the partial untying of aid and the maintenance of aid to producer organizations. finally, we consider it unacceptable to advocate the application of the system of decoupling of aid to all the other sectors not yet 'reformed'.
in writing. we voted against this resolution on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2007 because it insists on the continuation of the same neoliberal policy, with the disastrous consequences we know of, namely the growth of poverty and social inequalities, when what was needed was a break with these policies and a change of background, as was advocated in many points of our group's resolution. among the proposals we have put forward, which unfortunately have not been adopted, we stress the need to insist on the immediate suspension of the current process of liberalization of public services and the need for a firm commitment to achieve the reduction of working time without lowering wages in order to create new jobs. we also regret that the commission's work and legislative programmes ignore the situation in the middle east, just as we consider it unacceptable that the european union's financial cooperation with the palestinian authority is not being re-established. we also criticise the commission for not proposing initiatives to improve social policy and for insisting on liberalization in various sectors, particularly in services and the energy market.
in writing. the commission's proposed legislative programme for 2007 also reveals how the lack of political leadership in many member states is making life difficult for the european union. it is true that the commission is the driving force behind the community institutions, but it is also true that when the member states are entangled in their internal problems, in their difficulties, energy is lost. that said, it must be admitted that by placing the emphasis on economic issues (as well as, more specifically, on the technological and, equally strategic, energy issue), this commission shows that it has understood what the priorities should be, without giving the institutional dimension more importance than it actually has. on the other hand, the continuing commitment to better regulation also shows an understanding of the need to simplify the legislative environment. let us hope that 2007 will be the year in which the political carcass of europe is unfurled, so that the idea that there is a mobilizing project for europe and the political impetus to make it a reality is not taken for granted.
in writing. russia, because of its commercial and economic importance and also because of its obvious historical and cultural affinities with the countries of the european union, deserves our particular concern. the fall of the soviet dictatorship gave rise to genuine hope that it might have entered the path of democracy and freedom. unfortunately, the recent tragic events of the deaths of anna politkovskaya and alexander litvinenko are clear signs that it is still far from acceptable standards in the most elementary of fundamental rights. in addition to the armed actions in its geopolitical sphere of influence, i cannot but also criticise the trade and energy mechanisms used by russia as a means of putting pressure on its neighbours and which constitute genuine discretionary sanctions. i believe that the union must continue to establish close cooperation with russia, both on the international scene and in our common neighbourhood, but this partnership cannot be achieved without sacrificing our constant demands and critical thinking. for its own stability and security, the european union obviously needs a prosperous, free and democratic russia. i hope that the russian people will find a safe way in that direction.
in writing. the resolution adopted by the majority of the ep today, among many other things, is worth noting that, intentionally and not naively, it does not mention the advance of nato towards eastern europe and the strategic installation of new military bases around and threatening russia, promoting the militarization of international relations and a new impetus in the arms race. the same applies to the destabilisation manoeuvres being carried out in the caucasus by nato-linked forces using georgia as a foothold for chechen rebels. how can we forget the thousands of people of russian origin who are discriminated against in the baltic countries, which are members of the eu, and who are denied citizenship rights? the resolution's tone, on the other hand, is one of carrot and stick, i.e. while promoting political interference and pressure on russia - and other countries in eastern europe and the caucasus, including belarus - big business in the eu is seeking full access to russia's vast energy resources.
in writing. the report includes very negative aspects regarding eu enlargement, in particular when it insists on the fabricated 'need' to complete the so-called 'constitutional process' as a (false) condition for any future enlargement. however, there is another aspect of the negotiations with turkey which deserves our clear rejection and which needs to be stressed. the report 'deplores' the fact that the finnish presidency's efforts to 'find a solution to end the current impasse on the full implementation of the additional protocol on the one hand and to alleviate the isolation of the turkish cypriot community living in the north of the island on the other hand have not been successful'. in other words, the report seeks to: - to ignore the fact that the isolation of the turkish cypriot community is caused and caused solely by the illegal turkish military occupation of 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus; - to link, as the turkish authorities intend - with the support of some countries, including the eu - the application of the additional protocol to the de facto recognition of the (illegal) turkish military occupation and the self-proclaimed 'turkish republic of northern cyprus'; - to exploit the cypriot question, in the face of the contradictions surrounding turkey's accession, by secondary to the un resolutions on cyprus.
in writing. the term 'accommodation' will have to be part of the community lexicon if we are to think properly about the needs arising from the extraordinary process of enlargement in 2005 - and from future enlargements. after a year and a half, we have to see that our societies, our economies, our institutions and our mindsets have not yet fully accommodated this fact. which is understandable, since our plasticity is not limitless. the importance of 1 may 2005 is too great for the first impacts to have dissipated in just 18 months. that said, we must not mistake difficulties for impossibilities or even for inevitabilities. we can do more and better to make this process more normal, accommodating. we must also prepare for the next phase, in the logic that enlarging the eu is advantageous both for those who arrive and for those who are already there. and that's how it has to be understood. that is, i think, one of the most important aspects. this is one of the reasons why the institutional dimension needs to be adapted to the situation in the eu, but it cannot be concluded that this is the main difficulty in the coming years. accommodation is social, political and economic, before it is predominantly institutional.
in writing. the proposal, which has been submitted for second reading, differs from the legislation in force in this area in three fundamental respects. the proposal is to provide annual data instead of monthly data. recent studies have shown that monthly data submitted up to six months after the reference month are of little use for day-to-day market monitoring, whereas annual data can be used for medium- to long-term market analyses and reduce the workload of national entities in submitting the data. it is also intended that the reporting of data should be made by flag (or nationality) of the vessels responsible for landings. this requirement, as opposed to the current submission of data by eu, efta and other vessels, will allow for more detailed data analyses, but will not significantly increase the workload of national authorities already collecting data at this level of detail. finally, the proposal for a regulation aims to give a more flexible approach to the use of sampling techniques for estimating total landings. national bodies will be allowed to use an appropriate level of sampling techniques for data collection, provided they justify their use and analyse the quality of the resulting data in a methodological report.... (short voting statement pursuant to rule 163 (1))
in writing. as we are used to, the majority in the european parliament approves a report which is based on the idea that enlargement of the eu should be made possible by ensuring and even deepening federalism, that is, by ensuring the dominance of the great powers in the eu decision-making process and, in this way, the imposition of the interests of its major economic and financial groups. the report begins by making the demagogic premise that institutional reform is necessary to ensure the 'effectiveness' and 'functioning' of the eu institutions. after a list of reforms, it is not surprising that he ends up where he wanted to be: defending the incorrectly named 'european constitution'. the report also clarifies what the real purpose of resuming the so-called constitutional process is: insisting on the content of the draft treaty which has already been rejected. this is why the usual panoply of measures aimed at centralising power in supranational bodies dominated by the great powers is introduced: a new weighting of votes and the end of the rotation of the council presidencies, the extension of the 'qualified majority', the 'minister for foreign affairs', the end of one commissioner per country in the commission or unanimity in amending the treaties. this is unacceptable!
in writing. you don't take home someone who doesn't have a home to take home. if by 'absorption capacity' is meant, then i am - as i have said many times - in complete agreement. the union, as it enlarges, must be able to absorb new entrants and accommodate the changes that follow. that is the sense in which i am voting in favour of this report. worse than disappointing the expectations of those hoping to join the community, it would be to disappoint those who are joining and those who are already there. let us look at our capacity to accept new member states before each enlargement. but they do not count on our support to twist this concept into something it is not: a euphemism to keep out. finally, i would like to reiterate what i have said: the eu's capacity to enlarge will obviously be limited; but the ability to produce the same effects would be better off not. the first is our neighbours on the mediterranean coast. if we are not able to absorb them logically, we are able to "integrate" them into our space in a new and much broader sense of the term.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this good debate and for the comments and requests that the presidency has also received in the course of this debate. in my opening speech i did not go into the enlargement debate, and i will not go into it now, because we discussed it in this chamber quite thoroughly this morning. it is one of the main subjects of the european council, but we have already dealt with the details earlier in the morning. the issues of a social europe have been raised in a number of speeches. i would remind you that the lahti informal summit was accompanied by a social summit and, as president barroso mentioned, this autumn a decision was also taken on the globalisation fund. we in finland are always reminded that wealth must first be created before it can be shared, and that is why the finnish presidency has focused so strongly on innovation and competitiveness policy. the european union is making a specific effort on immigration issues, and the european council debate at the end of the week is intended to confirm that we are working towards a comprehensive approach to immigration issues. global in the sense that it is not just a border control issue, not just a question of illegal immigration, but it is also a huge opportunity for legal immigration. we have organised two conferences on this subject with our african partners this summer and this autumn, in order to look in particular at the root causes of illegal immigration and to tackle them in the long term. strengthening the work of frontex is a good thing, but it is only a small part of an overall immigration policy. as far as galileo is concerned, the european council has no decision on the location in sight and is not planning to discuss it. i would remind the representatives of the new member states that sometimes it takes a long time to get eu agencies. finland has been a member since 1995 and with the chemicals regulation adopted by the european parliament today, the first european union agency is now coming to finland after more than ten years of membership. i thank parliament for that. mr president, i shall now return to the debate on the constitutional treaty. it should be recalled that the bilateral consultations under the finnish presidency are based on the conclusions of the european council last june, which gave germany the task of reporting on the state of play of the constitutional treaty to the european council next spring, but the report must be based on very close consultations with the member states. we have now gone through the first round of consultations. it has been done in a very confidential spirit, which is why very little information has been and will be given to the public, because the intention is that on the basis of our in-depth analysis the german presidency can continue to work and then report to the european council. as this discussion has shown, everyone seems to have a sense of what others think. we all seem to know very well what is thought in different countries. one of the aims of our consultation round has been to discuss directly with governments specifically about how they see this situation and to look for possible ways forward. but it is not yet the time for decision, not even for negotiation. this has been a round of consultations and the conclusions drawn from them are only preliminary. if i had to describe this situation in one word, as one of the honourable members has said, i would describe it in one word: reform. we have a broad consensus that reform is necessary and we are now considering how and to what extent we can proceed. mr president, as this is my last speech in the plenary, apart from the question time which will soon follow, i would like to thank the honourable member for his very detailed, multifaceted and good cooperation, and on behalf of the presidency. (applause) i would like to thank the
president of the commission. it was certainly a debate which, despite natural differences, drew strong lines of consensus and i wanted to highlight them because some of them are important. we are trying to build a new consensus on enlargement and, let us be frank, the question of turkey is a sensitive issue that divides public opinion in our countries very much. the fact that the commission proposal, supported by the finnish presidency and always formulated in close cooperation with the finnish presidency, has received unanimous support from the member states through their foreign ministers is very important, because we could be facing a very serious difficulty today. it was possible, on such a sensitive and delicate issue, to reach a position which seems to us to be a balanced, credible and fair one. a position which has received the support of the overwhelming majority of members who have spoken here today and a position which now allows us, i hope, to have a real strategic discussion on enlargement. i would like to stress what mr alexander stubb, for example, said, which i think is very important. it is essential that european leaders at all levels, not only heads of state and government, but also the european parliament and also leaders with national responsibilities, seriously discuss this enlargement issue. whether or not europe should see enlargement as a great opportunity, what does enlargement mean politically, economically and culturally, i would even say historically, for europe. and for that it was important to unpick this debate from the more difficult issues that were on the table so that we could focus on what is essential. i hope that the european council will reach this new consensus, we need it and we need it after we have had the courage to discuss with our public what enlargement means. i was in berlin today on a very popular german television programme, where i was interviewed by chancellor merkel, and on those programmes we were asked questions from the audience about the damage to germany resulting from enlargement, companies that would be leaving, etc. i had to show that, for example, germany is gaining a lot from enlargement, that enlargement is creating jobs in germany, that germany has gone from 17 billion in exports in 1994 to what are now the new member states to about 80 billion this year, that germany exports more to the new member states than it imports, that enlargement is creating jobs in the europe of the fifteen, it is not destroying jobs. enlargement has been a positive development for the european union, and i believe that this will perhaps be the main contribution of the european council. we will work to achieve a new consensus on enlargement and i will not now repeat the other issues that have been so well underlined by mrs lehtomäki. i would of course like to thank the finnish presidency for the good cooperation we have had and i would add, because this issue was not raised in my initial speech but in response to a question, if i am not mistaken, from mrs sarah ludford, that the european commission strongly condemns the so-called holocaust conference in tehran. if it wasn't tragic, it would be a farce. we cannot offend the memory of so many victims of the holocaust in this way. we must also take a principled stand on this issue!
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
it is clear that, as the social problems in the european union are growing, there is increasing pressure to move forward with the development of neoliberal policy, with the disastrous consequences that we know of, unemployment, precarious work, poverty and social inequalities. on the contrary, what is emerging is the emphasis on immigration policy, the attempt to extend the application of qualified majority voting, on the grounds that it facilitates policies in this area, but in fact to apply more security mechanisms. the same applies to institutional questions, with the aim of moving towards a revision of the european constitution. it is symptomatic that in our meetings with the representatives of the future presidencies, especially germany, the institutional question comes first, followed by the completion of the internal market and energy. the way in which they devalue social and environmental issues is also symptomatic, and there is no thought of revising the statutes and guidelines of the european central bank, despite the serious consequences of its policy on the weakest economies, households and micro and smes.
just two comments out of 200 possible words... perhaps the most important aspect of enlargement is to reaffirm the need to respect and implement the un resolutions on cyprus and not to exploit the cyprus issue in the context of the contradictions surrounding turkey's accession to the eu. as for the so-called constitutional process, the aims are clear, the contradictions persist. while reaffirming the need to recover the 'european constitution', the idea of a 'less' ambitious (but guaranteeing the fundamental) consensus emerges. there is talk of a name change and a (pseudo) 'mini-agreement' with an emphasis on institutional issues (under the pretext that the eu needs to function, i.e. to ensure the dominance of the big powers in the decision-making process) and the so-called 'eu role in the world' (i.e. its militarisation and external interventionism). some even say that by 'selling' the idea of this (pseudo) 'mini-treaty' it could be avoided that referenda are held in some of the member states. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft treaty on european union. finally, another attempt and test to (re) impose the rejected treaty. the portuguese presidency of the council is being given a particularly unacceptable role in this attempt in the second half of 2007.
question time is now closed (b6-0448/2006) the following questions were put to the council.
question no 1 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0956/06) subject: action by the finnish presidency on behalf of children and their families what progress has been made by the finnish presidency in improving the well-being of children and families in the european union?
question no 2 by manuel medina ortega (h-0959/06) subject: strategies for immigration and the right to work in view of the scale of migration movements worldwide and the demographic and ageing problems in the countries of the european union, what strategies does the council intend to adopt to regulate immigration to europe in the immediate future?
question no 3 by claude moraes (h-0961/06) subject: council's project for the year of equal opportunities (2007) and the year of intercultural dialogue (2008) can the council state what plans it has for promoting the year of equal opportunities (2007) and the year of intercultural dialogue (2008)?
question no 4 by sarah ludford (h-0964/06) subject: the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the european union subject: counter-terrorism strategy in the area of the common foreign and security policy the european council adopted a european union strategy to combat terrorism in november 2005. neither the strategy nor the action plans on terrorism were consulted with the european parliament despite its repeated requests to do so. the counter-terrorism strategy does, however, include a section entitled 'democratic accountability' which promises a high-level political dialogue on counter-terrorism involving the council, the european parliament and the commission once per presidency 'to ensure interinstitutional governance'. does the presidency consider that a last-minute invitation to the chairman of the european parliament's civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee to attend the may 2006 high level dialogue meeting reflects the commitment to genuine dialogue, effective democratic accountability and effective 'interinstitutional governance' in this vital area of eu activity?
since the author is not present, question 5 is inadmissible. question no 6 by danute budreikaite (h-0973/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy prospects in lithuania among the new member states, lithuania is among those most dependent on russia for its energy supplies, which it uses for political purposes. lithuania can only cover its internal energy supply needs in terms of electricity, 80% of which is produced by the ignalina nuclear power plant, which is due to be closed in 2009. decision no 1364/2006/ec oj l 262, 22.9.2006, p. 1 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2006 laying down guidelines for trans-european energy networks provides for the construction of a link between poland and lithuania (elk-alytus). however, the town of elk in poland has no developed energy infrastructure and no high-voltage power line connecting it to the western energy grids. this link does not solve the problem of lithuania's connection to the eu energy system. in addition, it will not be possible to build a new nuclear power plant in lithuania before 2014. the absence of a common eu energy policy and common energy networks (electricity and gas), coupled with the lack of solidarity among eu member states, increase the risk of lithuania being isolated from electricity suppliers. lithuania has signed protocol no 4 on the ignalina nuclear power plant, annexed to the act of accession to the european union, in which it undertakes to definitively close unit 1 of the plant by 2005 and unit 2 of the plant by 2009. without prejudice to the undertaking given, the safeguard clause referred to in article 37 of the act of accession shall apply until 31 december 2012 in the event of a disruption of energy supply in lithuania. in view of the uncertainty of this situation, can lithuania not invoke article 37 of the act of accession to extend the operation of the ignalina nuclear power plant for as long as safety rules allow and until the country's energy problems are resolved?
the rules of procedure allow only two supplementary questions for each question. but, exceptionally, i allow the use of the word.
question no 7 by avril doyle (h-0974/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of pesticides in the light of the recent cop12 meeting, the conclusions of the environment council meeting of 23 october 2006 and the conclusions of the agriculture and fisheries council meeting of 24 and 25 october 2006, does the council not agree that all post-2012 agreements should include the prevention of deforestation?
question no 8 by richard corbett (h-0976/06) subject: composition of the commission when does the council intend to adopt a decision pursuant to article 4 (3) of the protocol on the enlargement of the european union annexed to the treaty of nice? have they started any preparatory work on this?
question no 10 has been withdrawn. question no 10 by mr bernd posselt (h-0981/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: statute for kosovo how does the finnish presidency of the council explain that, contrary to the expectations of the active leader of the un negotiating team, martti ahtisaari, it has not been possible to resolve the question of kosovo's status by the end of the year? what is the council's view of the chances of successfully resolving this issue next year?
question no 11 by mr bastiaan belder (h-0983/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: late-term abortions at the ginemedex clinic in barcelona the council is aware of the danish report on the ginemedex abortion clinic in barcelona, where abortions are performed up to the 30th week of pregnancy, provoking international outrage and repudiation for this flagrant violation of human life. report from the danish television channel dr 1 on sunday, 29 october 2006? can the council confirm that the clinic has been used by citizens of other eu member states for abortions up to the 30th week of pregnancy, thus escaping the criminal law of those member states? does this evasion of national criminal law and this attack on human life give rise to concern and attention on the part of the council? to what extent does the council intend to make efforts to reach agreements between member states which will enable national criminal law to be applied and prevent the exercise of the right to free movement of persons from prejudicing the rights of viable foetuses?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
we are confident that tomorrow's vote will confirm the completion of the legislative procedure on the adoption of a european driving licence. i would like to begin by congratulating mr grosch on his excellent work. he has conducted this long process with the qualities of dialogue and efficiency that enabled him to reach a compromise which, while not reflecting the views of the various countries and the community institutions, has managed to maintain consistency on a matter which affects, as he has rightly recalled, about two thirds of europe's adult population. my main concern was that a good idea would be undermined by excessive regulation without any benefits for road safety. however, the consensus reached on the main points of the directive allows us to look to the future with optimism. the text seems to have generally achieved its objectives, while taking account of the principle of subsidiarity and respecting many of the practices which are legitimately established by the member states. this positive idea will enable european citizens to be guided by clearer and more uniform rules which favour mobility and road safety, prevent fraud by the misuse of false cards and enable more effective control of offenders. the new directive will thus reach its intended audience in a simple and easily understandable way (i hope) and we can expect citizens to adopt it without any great difficulty. it should be clear that our aim is to make life easier for citizens and the various operators in the sector and at the same time to promote safer road traffic. finally, i refer to the controversial issue of a phased and progressive access to motorcycling and the imposition of a minimum age of 24 for the most powerful motorcycles in the absence of previous experience. i recognize as a motorcyclist (i am an old motorcyclist!) that age is not the only indicator of maturity and a sense of responsibility on the road, but combined with experience it is the best indicator the law can use. the truth is that there are motorcycles on the market that can achieve performance close to that of a formula 1 car. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i, for one, would never make them available to a child of my own age. i therefore express my support for the solution found in the name of protecting the most vulnerable motorists, who are the youngest and youngest citizens.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that sis ii is an important instrument. commissioner frattini has just reminded us. the free movement within the community and the absence of internal borders oblige us to strengthen the security of the union's external borders, and this can only be done by sharing information between all the members of the schengen area. commissioner frattini also said, and i agree with him, that sis ii is not just a new generation of the schengen information system. we can say that it is a new schengen information system: it has new functions, it has new users, it imports new data. beyond the technical issues of building a new system there is a political issue. this political issue has to do with the legitimate ambition of the new member states to join the schengen area as soon as possible. for the new member states this is a key issue, whether or not they can offer their citizens the opportunity of free movement within the community area. to be in the schengen area you need to enter the sis. as we know, the sis is not a sufficient condition, that is, it is not enough to enter the sis to be in the schengen area. there are a number of other requirements that must be met. but it's a necessary condition. we cannot be in the schengen area without being in the schengen information system. the creation of sis ii must therefore be a priority for us, and that is why - and commissioner frattini is a privileged witness because he has always stood by parliament in this endeavour - we have endeavoured to conclude, at first reading, the adoption of the legal basis for sis ii. it was so that, because of the legal basis, we would not have a longer delay in sis ii and i would like to thank you once again for the crucial cooperation you have given us in achieving this objective. the mandate given to the commission by the council for the development of sis ii will end in a few days' time, on 31 december 2006. the commission proposes to extend it to 2007. the commission itself admits that the system will not be operational until 2008. proposing an extension to december 2007 is an optimistic version. i was very pleased to hear vice-president frattini say that in february 2007 he will present the final timetable to parliament and that he expects only a delay of six to eight months. i must say that this forecast is much better than the information that was circulating and that we were worried about. it is still a delay, but it is a much more comfortable delay than the one we had feared. i hope you are right, although some people think we may have to face longer delays. in any event, the commissioner will know that parliament never relinquishes its powers of control. we want to monitor the implementation of this process and, if there are delays, to know exactly what the reasons were for them. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups, in particular mrs mastenbroek and mr lax, and i would like to publicly express my gratitude to the members in my group who have followed this dossier closely, who have always encouraged me and who have always expressed great concern about the pace of implementation of sis ii, in particular mrs edit bauer from slovakia, mr mihael brejc from slovenia, mrs kinga gál from hungary, mr panayiotis demetriou from cyprus and, of course, mrs barbara kudrycka from poland, who will be speaking on behalf of the epp in this debate.
in writing. it could be said that history is repeating itself with regard to the 2007 budget, but in the face of previous situations, its significance is more serious. the ep, after criticising the budget ceiling proposed by both the commission and the council, endorses a budget in which payment appropriations amount to 0.99% of community gni, below the level agreed just a year ago in the 2007 financial perspective, about 1.06% - a cut of around €8 billion. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. the reduction in the financial compensation for portugal attests to this. a budget which, among many other examples, aims to support the implementation of the neoliberal policies of the lisbon strategy - such as the liberalisation of the labour market and the internal market or the financing of large capital - to promote the dismantling of many fishing vessels, the decline of family farming or the militarisation and interventionism of the eu. hence our rejection!
in writing. the scale and importance of illegal immigration in the european union cannot overshadow the relevant issue of refugees, in particular political refugees. the right to asylum is first and foremost a fundamental value in any society that wishes to protect democracy, dignity and human rights. and it is also the living proof of the solidarity of a community. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. and for this reception capacity to be fully developed, this fund is necessary and very welcome.
in writing. maritime safety is of the utmost importance to the european union, not only because of accidents such as the prestige and their socioeconomic and environmental consequences, but also because of the need to prevent further tragedies, which result in threats to the sustainability of our seas and territories. the measures proposed in mr le rachinel's report are of the utmost importance in ensuring the clarity, consistency and stability of community provisions. the oil tanker sector also needs maximum stability and clarity in the community legislative and legal framework. only this can ensure and preserve the efficiency and transparency of economic and commercial relations in the maritime sector. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected and that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied. the socioeconomic consequences of this measure have been thoroughly analysed and it is clear that it is reasonable and that it is necessary to continue to align community measures with the objective of maximum maritime safety for our ships and our ports and territories.
in writing. one of the most important issues in immigration policy is the question of integration. the ability to integrate immigrants and to integrate themselves is the key, or at least one of the keys, to overcoming the risks of conflict and tensions between different communities, which is a very topical issue today. as i have said many times, the first note on immigration should be to recall the enormous advantage that is for the host countries to welcome men and women who go through the greatest trials in order to achieve a better life. they're the people who make our communities richer. the recognition of these facts does not mean that we ignore another dimension, that of the difficulties of integration. in seeking to answer this question, with funds to finance programmes that facilitate and promote integration, the fund can play a very important role. it will all depend, of course, on the political vision underlying its use. but this is primarily a matter for the member states.
in writing. this is an old demand of women's organizations which the european parliament has supported, but which has been difficult to achieve. finally, following the commission's proposal to set up a european institute for gender equality, the ep adopted its position at first reading on 14 march 2006, adopting 50 amendments to the commission's proposal published on 8 march 2006. however, the council adopted its common position on 21 september 2006, taking into account 35 amendments from parliament. but in view of the need to ensure that the office could start its activities in 2007, amendments were negotiated with a view to reaching a swift agreement at the second reading. that is the commitment we have made in our agreement, which includes 13 amendments to the common position. this agreement includes the abolition of the bureau provided for in the common position and the reintroduction of the expert forum, a consultative forum composed of experts in the field of gender equality, which is the aim of both the commission and parliament. the council reviewed its position and agreed to replace the bureau with an expert forum composed of one representative from each member state, two members appointed by parliament and three representatives of the social partners.
in writing. i congratulate my colleagues lissy gröner and amalia sartori on the timely report produced on the recommendation for second reading on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european institute for gender equality, which i support, in particular as regards the replacement of the bureau by an expert forum in the institute's organ. the objective, shared by all the institutions, of having this institute start its activities as soon as possible in 2007 made all the institutions work together to achieve this objective. the speed and the way in which this whole process has been conducted is commendable.
in writing. the decision to create a fund for the union's external borders comes at a good time. while it is true that the borders of each state are within the strict limits of national sovereignty, the truth is that when these borders are also the external borders of the european union, there is a dual nature which must be recognised and treated accordingly. in a time of increased risks - whether it is the threat of terrorism, illegal immigration or economic crime - the need to strengthen borders is imperative. it is not, however, the building of walls around europe or the construction of a fortress continent. this is a matter of sharing a part of a burden whose cost is partly the result of being part of the european union. it's only fair. let us hope above all that it is effective.
in writing. the sakharov prize laureates are, by definition, men and women whose lives have been given up for the cause of freedom of expression, democracy, freedom and human rights, always with a huge sacrifice for their lives. it is not surprising, therefore, that some of these men and women are prevented from receiving this prize by the regimes or repressive powers of their countries. it is not surprising, but that does not mean that we should be indifferent to this fact. it is therefore to be commended that the european parliament has decided to keep the pressure on these regimes and powers by deciding to set up a follow-up mechanism in cases where sakharov prize winners have been prevented from receiving their deserved prize or from returning to the european parliament, as is the case with oswaldo payá. this is the case of aung san suu kyi, who is still under house arrest in burma. and the case of the cuban regime of fidel castro, which prevents the award of the prize to the ladies in white, winners of the sakharov prize in 2005. by preventing the winners from receiving their deserved prize, these regimes prove how deserved their award was, just as it is necessary to continue the struggle for the most basic freedoms, both in burma and in cuba... (declaration abridged pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. we must ensure the protection of personal data and prevent their misuse. everyone has the right to privacy and to his or her identity. the increasing cooperation between judicial and police authorities in combating transnational crime is increasing the flow of personal data. we have called for these exchanges of information to respect fundamental rights such as respect for private life and the protection of personal data and to strengthen mutual trust between the competent authorities in the police and judicial fields. we want a framework decision that is close to what is established for the first pillar. it makes no sense that our union has a high level of protection of personal data in the first pillar and legislates substantially differently in relation to the third pillar. a high level of protection should be ensured, taking into account the specific nature of police and judicial work. this matter has been dragged from one presidency to another and the council has unfortunately shown itself to be unable to reach a decision. the council should be aware that this framework decision is linked to several proposals currently under consideration by the ep, such as the vis, although it believes that these should not be held hostage to the adoption of the framework decision.
in writing. this report, which has been adopted, is unfortunately in full accordance with the commission's proposal, expressing what they understand as a 'european energy strategy': liberalisation, control of sources of supply and supply and the threat to the sovereignty of the people. the commission's proposal is to set up a european energy market, which would be a market for energy, and to set up a european energy market for energy, which would be a market for energy, and to set up a european energy market for energy. in the absence of a genuine policy to overcome energy dependence on fossil fuels and excessive energy consumption, the 'market' appears as the solution. we also consider it unacceptable that the solution to pollution problems should be an emissions trading system, since it does not contribute to the reduction of 'greenhouse gases'. it only serves to facilitate more gains for those who can afford them, exacerbating inequalities in development. the path indicated for a common external energy policy is also a new threat to the sovereignty of the most dependent states, the contrary... (abbreviated explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy is the basis for the action plan for the european energy strategy, to be presented in early 2007. this document is of great importance as it plays a key role in issues such as combating climate change, environmental pollution, the misuse of natural resources and the security of energy supply. the report sets out very clear objectives: a 20% share of energy produced in the eu from renewable sources by 2020 and 50% by 2040; a 30% reduction in european carbon emissions by 2020 and a minimum of 60% by 2050. the objective set by the green paper on energy efficiency of reducing european consumption by 20% by 2020 is also recalled. in the field of renewable energy, the focus is on marine resources (waves, tides and the enormous potential of offshore wind) and solar energy. the commission is also asked to undertake an independent analysis of the potential and the shortcomings of nuclear energy and its generating stations. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. despite its shortcomings and even some contradictions, there are positive aspects in this report, particularly in the area of the defence of alternative and renewable energies. however, we insist that it must be borne in mind that biofuels are not in a position to solve the serious problems of energy dependence in a lasting way, as they have a localized technical interest and a limited impact. moreover, the production of biomass and biofuels should not replace the main function of agriculture: food production. the devastating effects of the production of various oilseeds in third world countries are recalled, in particular with the destruction of vast areas of forest, oilseeds which constitute the raw material for the production of biofuels in europe. we therefore do not support the excessive emphasis on the promotion of energy crops which are the basis for obtaining biofuels, since such crops use scarce production factors such as water and soil, as well as various fertilizers. we therefore consider that the most important thing would be community support for the promotion of biomass and biofuels produced from various types of organic waste, such as forestry waste, waste from waste water treatment, solid and municipal waste and edible oils.
author. as is well known, there are complaints of children being subjected to rape and prostitution by un peacekeepers in haiti and liberia, which follow similar scandals including acts of paedophilia by un personnel in the democratic republic of congo and human trafficking in kosovo. these are acts which shock us deeply and which we therefore condemn and we want measures to ensure that such acts are not repeated. it is unacceptable that there should be such acts of abuse and sexual exploitation or other forms of criminal behaviour by un personnel, in violation of human rights and in flagrant contradiction and betrayal of the humanitarian and peacekeeping mission of the organisation itself. as the resolution we support points out, we know that something has been done with investigations and disciplinary sanctions. but as recent cases have shown, the countries of origin of the troops must also act to avoid repetition and to avoid tarnishing the meritorious work of the majority. we also call on the un to take measures to ensure the protection of vulnerable people, including women, children and refugees in areas where its troops are operating. but we also call on the commission and the member states to also support initiatives that guarantee the rights of women in conflict and post-conflict areas and to take economic and social measures that make them less vulnerable to sexual exploitation.
i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency on the serenity of its performance, which was a record well suited to the tense international context. the council naturally dealt with very important subjects and the report presented here by the council presidency and the commission presidency has highlighted these subjects. however, i was surprised that no particular attention was paid to the conflict in the middle east in view of recent developments, in particular the escalation of violence that has been felt and the possibility of early elections. i also have to say a few words about the conclusion reached by the council on the european union-africa summit, which i believe represents a major step forward in europe's relations with africa.
