mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for my country, slovakia, and for the other new member states of the union, the question of labour and student mobility is very important. i do not want to talk about the introduction of transitional periods and, therefore, the considerable reduction in the number of workers by the other member states of the european union, but as a member of the committee on culture and education, i would like to ask austria, the country currently holding the presidency of the council of the european union, to make it possible to amend the relevant legislation again - the admission of foreign students, including students from slovakia, to austrian universities - and to abolish the so-called numerus clausus and respect the principle of equal opportunities. in my view, this could be achieved by introducing entrance examinations or probationary periods. it would be a step in line with the european-wide intention to base our society on knowledge.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to the question of the situation in the middle east. i would like to take this opportunity to express my unreserved appreciation for the efforts of the united states of america in the fight against global terrorism, and for the joint action of the united states of america and the european union in the search for those who organize and carry out terrorist attacks against civilians. on the other hand, there is no justification in our democratic societies for not taking action against attacks that kill civilians in countries, especially when they are women and children.
i would like to thank mrs christe prets for the report she has prepared. trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, is one of the worst forms of organised crime carried out by international criminal groups. these groups target people from the most disadvantaged social groups, offering jobs as waitresses, bartenders, cleaners or au pairs. most of the women who are lured come from regions with poor economic and social conditions and high unemployment. since trafficking in women is an international crime committed by well-organized transnational groups, the fight against this phenomenon also requires coordination at the transnational level. commendably, a number of international institutions, such as the united nations, the council of europe, and finally the european union, are addressing this modern-day form of slavery in the 20th and 21st centuries. the result of the activities is a number of conventions and conventions, of which slovakia is also a signatory. but i think it is important that these conventions are also monitored.
ladies and gentlemen, i would recommend that you do not approve the three reports on the so-called sugar reform. this reform is contrary to growth, rural employment and the economy of the most backward regions of the european union, and therefore also contrary to the lisbon strategy. even the good amendments in mr frutau's reports cannot improve this reform sufficiently. by reforming in this way, the european union has also missed a unique opportunity to take the lead in liberalising agricultural trade within the wto. it is a great pity, because a leadership position would have enabled us to achieve our aims in the negotiations on the liberalization of non-agricultural trade. in particular, instead of using natural market forces to address the previously over-bureaucratized regime, the reform uses a new range of non-market, unverified and complex administrative constraints. for example, trade in more important commodities such as flour and grain is not regulated by either quantity or price. the need for a different reform is also being driven by a major shift in the bioenergy economy. for these reasons, i have set out the principles of such market regulation at the competent level. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is consulted on the draft budget. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in advance for your support.
i only have room for a standard brief. the european parliament will reject the council's position on the long-term financial perspective for 2007-2013 this afternoon. at the same time, parliament will signal its willingness to negotiate the financial perspective under the austrian presidency with a view to reaching an agreement. this may create the conditions for the adoption of this budget by parliament's plenary at the end of march. the austrian presidency will thus spend half its term seeking a budgetary agreement, unless a crisis situation arises within the institutions of the european union. the finalisation of the budgetary perspective and the reflection of at least part of the european parliament's ideas can also help to achieve the partial objectives of the austrian presidency. but it can also help to meet the expectations of european union citizens in areas such as education, job creation, labour force flexibility or cohesion policy.
colleagues, when we joined this honourable and respected association, which the european union is without doubt, almost two years ago, we assumed that we would be equal and equal members and that the citizens of our countries would be equal citizens, just as it was when austria joined the european union. however, some countries seem to have trouble exercising all the freedoms on which the european union was founded. i would like to ask mr schűssela, as well as commissioner ferrero waldner, as austria's representative to the european commission, to correct these extremely discriminatory measures during the austrian presidency. i am a member of parliament from slovakia and i believe that the citizens of the slovak republic, mr chancellor, as well as the citizens of all the other member states which have recently joined the union, should have the same rights as the citizens of the other eu member states.
in writing. homophobia means the phobia of one's "similar". this is not a critical or malicious attitude: a phobia is a neurosis of extreme anxiety in the presence of the anxious source, which requires appropriate treatment: deconditioning, chemotherapy, analytical cure. i voted against this resolution which does not deal with homophobia. any form of violence against any person is to be denounced. there are no different categories of citizens. the right to life, the right to liberty and security, and respect for dignity apply to all human beings. the law guarantees these rights. the right to respect for private and family life, freedom of thought, conscience and religion are fundamental rights protected by international treaties. member states must respect the right to marry, which states that, from the age of marriage, men and women have the right to marry and to found a family in accordance with the national laws governing the exercise of this right. the european union has no competence in these areas and cannot judge the constitutions and national laws of its member states, which, having all signed the european convention on human rights, are accountable to the strasbourg court of human rights.
rapporteur of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, requested for an opinion. mr president, mr winkler, commissioner, we rarely talk about more important issues than right now. thanks go to the rapporteurs who have taken the initiative in bringing this up after a wide debate. the future of europe is our common problem, which is equally important for young and old, for men and women. european citizens generally have no problem, as ms wallström pointed out, with the decision-making mechanisms of the european institutions. the problem is that they have a vague vision of their future, of their life prospects, of their security, of new challenges to which they are still struggling to find an answer. it was uncertainty and fear of the future that were probably the main reasons for the vote against the constitution. we all have a responsibility to find a way out. we in the european parliament must also be aware of the message we are sending, the signals we are sending, when we decide on cohesion instruments, the transfer of pension rights, or when we give priority to third-country migrants over citizens of new member states. the governments of the member states, too, have a responsibility, often acting as if european affairs, such as the lisbon objectives of reconciling work and family life, were not even their concern. the fundamental question remains whether we find a common vision that is sufficiently attractive and whether our european values are strong enough to create adequate social cohesion. mr president, more than half of the european citizens, the european voters, are women. they have their own special problems that require a sensitive approach and appropriate solutions. the women's voice in the following discussion should therefore be taken sufficiently seriously. mr president, in conclusion, i would like to stress that the committee on women's rights and gender equality is of the opinion that one of the worst outcomes of the search for a way out would be to divide europe again into nuclear countries and others.
thank you, mr. duff, for the good news. in the eyes of many european citizens, the european union is negotiating about bananas, the shape of carrots, the amount of sunlight, and not about things that really affect the daily lives of european citizens. seven out of ten citizens in slovakia know very little about the european union and its structure. the european union is seen by its citizens as being far removed from their daily problems. it's more than shocking that more people voted in the big brother contest than participated in the european parliament elections. the media play an important and crucial role in informing european citizens. citizens are interested in the european union and want information about how it works. but the media must start reporting on the work of the european institutions and the impact of their decisions on life. but they need the right conditions. i understand that a journalist has difficulty explaining a legislative proposal with a thousand amendments, especially if its text is published only a few days before the vote, and not in all languages. in order to inform citizens objectively about the work of the european union, the media must focus on the work, not on 'tricks' or 'affairs'. on the other hand, we must create better conditions for informing citizens, we must remove the complexity of european legislation and limit negotiations behind closed doors.
thank you, charles, for an excellent report which talks about the european union's neighbourhood and creates a 'ring of friends' around the european union. by helping these neighbors, we are actually helping ourselves. the ring is composed of countries that have no aspirations to join the european union but have an eminent interest in close cooperation with the european union, as well as other countries that are interested in future membership but do not yet meet the criteria required for candidate status. it is commendable that association agreements and action plans have been signed with these countries and that these countries are taking all steps to enable them to participate in the european union's internal market and to approximate their legislation towards that of the european union. however, after years of reviewing the implementation of these agreements, it appears that some of these goals were ambitious but less realistic. the european union provides substantial financial support to countries that fall under the neighbourhood policy. however, another clause in these treaties needs to be checked, namely respect for human rights. their infringement may lead to interruption or suspension of financial assistance. it seems that these clauses remain only clauses on paper, and countries receive financial aid despite the obvious human rights violations. i therefore call for better monitoring in this area.
ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy is an excellent document, but, as the president of the european commission, mr barroso, said in the european parliament, it is not very realistic. this is why i welcome the report and would like to thank its author for addressing gender equality in her text. today, as we are in the second half of the lisbon strategy process, do we want to set ourselves targets in this area? it seems a little late. in point i of that report, the honourable member refers to the beijing platform fraction. it is to the detriment of the matter that, apart from me, no representative of the european union attended the 10th evaluation of the beijing platform for women's rights in beijing, where the implementation of this document was evaluated in practice. i am afraid that this report will be one of those that accurately maps the situation and status of women in the member states of the european union, whether it is employment, social status or, ultimately, health, but in the end its content will not be translated into practice. we hope that the report will not be destroyed, and this is what the austrian presidency is giving us, which has included women's health among its priorities. but here again we are faced with another problem, namely that the health systems of the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity, are in the hands and decision-making of the member states' governments. as we know that healthcare in the member states of the european union is currently going through a very difficult reform period, health protection should be coordinated within the european union. for a woman to be able to hold her place in society, to be an equal partner in the workplace, to be a good mother, she has to be a healthy woman. it is the protection of women's health in the context of an ageing population, whether it be screening for breast cancer, cervical cancer, the causes of premature births or increasing infertility, that should be one of the main objectives of the lisbon strategy.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mrs estrela, the shadow rapporteurs and the other members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality for the work they have done on this own-initiative report. on the basis of mr wim kok's report, we are convinced that the lisbon strategy needs a thorough review, including in relation to the gender perspective. we must not forget the competences of women and the specific nature of their important role, not only in the economies of the member states. the reconciliation of family and working life must respect women's specific social mission in improving europe's demographic situation. we must not forget the formally unrecognised and hitherto unpaid work of women. to this end, a methodology, its evaluation and statistical reporting should be prepared. i am convinced that the social and financial value of this work will greatly improve the economic and social situation of women. let me remind you of one of the conclusions and objectives of the european council of march 2000: full employment in europe, in a new, emerging society better adapted to the personal choices of women and men. it's not enough that all the people have jobs. in the communist period, there was 100 percent employment, and we know what the economic level was. it is not enough for all citizens to know how to use computers and to use the information available effectively. the lisbon strategy is primarily economic, but it will only succeed if it also contributes to raising europe's cultural level. the cultural level of europe also includes equal opportunities and equality between men and women. europe will have credit if its women, men and children do not live in extreme poverty and social exclusion, if its citizens are able to think critically in their daily lives, to understand social phenomena and to communicate well, that is, humanly with one another.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let me thank the rapporteur, mrs edith estrela, for her owninitiative report. the report's recommendations call on countries to take immediate action to achieve the lisbon objectives in favour of employment, quality of employment and social inclusion of women, bearing in mind the great economic potential of greater employment of women. to meet the lisbon target of 60% female employment in the union by 2010, it is essential to start putting these measures into practice very quickly. the attention of the member states and the commission should continue to be focused on taking effective measures to promote growth, especially in the poorest regions of europe, where the lack of employment opportunities forces women in particular to take up jobs offered predominantly by large retail chains in many member states of the union, including those with poor working conditions, unfavourable working hours and very low wages. i know what i'm talking about, because i live in the peripheral prešov region of slovakia, where the average unemployment rate is around 23 percent and the average salary is around 12,000 slovak korunas, which is about 300 euros in translation. it is very important to create a favourable business environment, to promote the entrepreneurial spirit of women and to ensure the availability of micro-credit for them to set up their own businesses. in countries where micro-credit systems are in place, the position of women has changed significantly. furthermore, women need to be provided with better access to post-university study and lifelong learning, as well as access to new technologies and the information society, in order to be able to withstand competition in the labour market. in order for eu enlargement to be a catalyst for improving gender equality policy in the new member states, the level of implementation of legislative measures in national legislation needs to be improved in order to eliminate inequalities between men and women in employment, remuneration and, where appropriate, political representation. i am convinced, mr president, that women are key to achieving the lisbon objectives and therefore deserve the attention of the european institutions and the governments of the member states.
in writing. the conclusions of this report do not respect the current situation in the european union: how can we say that the ratification of the european constitution must take place in 2009 and that the treaty of nice is completely useless? how can we talk about a 'period of reflection' when the current draft constitution has been definitively rejected by two of the union's founding states? the current treaty is certainly not enough, but it is useful to us. it must be progressively improved by other treaties and agreements, which could include some elements of part 1 of the constitution. at this stage of european reunification, is a constitution not premature? it is now more necessary than ever, in the interests of the member states and their citizens, and in the european interest, to get closer to the concrete realities experienced by the citizens of the new member states and not to ignore them, otherwise we will only exacerbate the democratic deficit. can we give new countries the confidence to believe in the european project? let us not draw conclusions from the standpoint of the citizens of our member states.
the situation in cuba is very serious. people are increasingly being denied basic human rights and the number of political prisoners is increasing. europe could be an example. as a member of the european parliament who, together with my colleagues from palestine and wales, adopted a cuban political prisoner, i am very concerned that the pressure of the world public on fidel castro should increase. i want to believe that one of the first decisions under the pressure of public opinion will be the release of political prisoners who are exposed to ill-treatment and inhumane conditions in prisons. i therefore support the motion for a resolution on the position of the european union towards the cuban government, where paragraph 9 refers to the re-imposition of sanctions against cuba by the council of the european union. i do not know why they were temporarily suspended on 31 january 2005, when paragraph 1 of this motion clearly states that cuba has not achieved any significant improvement in the field of human rights since 2003. was it a reward for ignorance, or perhaps some other interest? i want to believe that the council will reimpose sanctions, this time more effectively. to do that, you have to work together. ideally, especially with the un and the us government. i know that reaching a consensus at the un is almost impossible, but sanctions coordinated with the united states, possibly canada, could bring about the desired result. mr president, the european union and its institutions cannot and will never be indifferent to the fate of millions of people living in captivity and many suffering in horrendous prisons.
the situation in cuba is characterized by two events in december 2005: the women in white have been awarded the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. they were denied travel by the cuban authorities and were not allowed to receive the prize in person. free thought is not rewarded in cuba. it was strong evidence that the prize had been awarded in the right hands. the sakharov prize was awarded to the wives and mothers of cuban political prisoners whose only crime was free thought. the main demand of the women in white movement remains the release of all political prisoners in cuba. in an age when violence, war, and terror are rocking various parts of the world, it is very encouraging to see the moral pressure that a group of unarmed women can exert by nonviolent means. as a resident of a region where only a few years ago a communist regime ruled and where people were also imprisoned for free thought, i can attest to the great importance of support from democratic states. i therefore call on the european institutions, which are based on democracy, to use all peaceful means to put pressure on the castro regime to release people imprisoned solely for their independent thinking. waiting and giving in to one of the most democratic regimes in the world only prolongs the suffering of the people and the violation of human rights. by supporting the democratic opposition in cuba and by continuing to put pressure on the castro regime, europe should be able to achieve the implementation of democratic principles in that socialist country. if the union's efforts to bring about democratic change are to be successful and have the desired effect, we must formulate a clear position on how to achieve them and in what form democracy will be established in cuba.
let me thank you for all your expressions of regret and condolences for the tragic events that shook the slovak public two weeks ago. as you know, on january 19th, a slovak military plane crashed with 43 soldiers and military personnel on board. unfortunately, only one of them survived the crash. the plane was flying from pristina, kosovo, where slovak soldiers were participating in the nato peacekeeping mission in kosovo alongside other soldiers of the international community. january 23 was a day of national mourning for slovakia. i would like to thank the president of the ep for having decided on that day to fly the slovak flag at half-mast in front of the parliament building. for the slovak public, these speeches of participation mean a lot. it was not only the loss of outstanding military professionals but also of young men at the beginning of their professional and personal lives, the loss of sons, husbands and fathers of 36 surviving orphans. honor their memory!
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs carlshamre, for her report, which highlights very important aspects of the fight against violence against women. i agree with her, and i think it's very important that we all adopt a zero tolerance policy for all forms of violence. when they say that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, it seems that our society is weak because it cannot protect the weakest link in the chain, which is children. feminist movements have exposed violence against women and have always fought for women's rights. as we see the age of victims moving ever lower, society must have the courage to prevent violence and abuse against young girls. but the discovery of the culprits is sporadic and usually happens when it is too late. sadly, the tragic story of violence is good merchandise for the tabloids to sell, which increases profits. sadness is a tragic reality for the victim. girls are often denied the chance to survive childhood, and violence causes them to become women and, often, mothers before they are ready. and that's why i'm raising my voice today to call attention to this phenomenon, to advocate for the effort to prevent the violence that we know exists in society, but we rely on someone else to fight for us. i think it's very important to pass laws, recommendations, regulations, but we should also take care of their strict implementation and compliance in the daily lives around us. even in the vicinity of the european parliament, we see a young woman on the street with one or two babies and a cup in her hand, begging. but since she is a woman of a different ethnic group, we pretend that this does not concern us, throw her a few cents, and move on.
first of all, let me thank our committee's rapporteur, mrs marie carlshamre, and all the colleagues who have contributed to this report. violence is the abuse of power by one party, but i have to say that violence is also the failure to prevent violence. our basic stance must be characterized by zero tolerance for any violence that is committed against women. the solution depends in particular on education in respect for the human person and on intensive cooperation between governments, parliaments and ngos. they should jointly develop procedures to combat this phenomenon. statistics are necessary, but our success depends above all on effective prevention methods. moreover, every act of violence committed within families affects children and is passed on to the next generation. we must also take into account communities and ethnic minorities with different cultures, where specific forms of violence occur. each european union country should adopt comprehensive and effective legislation on domestic violence, which will make it possible to classify some of its forms as a criminal offence. cultural practices and alcohol should not be considered as mitigating circumstances. we must make it clear that violence in society is unacceptable. mr. president, i believe that domestic violence is a disgrace to our democratic and developed society because it is a violation of human dignity. preventing and intervening against violence against women should be the business of all of us.
violence against women is a phenomenon that has been present throughout human history. to develop effective strategies to eliminate this serious social problem, a thorough knowledge of this phenomenon and its national specificities is required. especially in the post-communist countries, including slovakia, there has been a long silence on this subject. strong traditionalism confined domestic violence to the intimate family environment. the aggressiveness of some types of violence also played a negative role. thus, the victim often did not report the attack, mainly out of fear of the perpetrator, fear for the children, or out of loyalty to the family. these countries were characterised by low levels of reporting of sexual assault. the number of actual cases is estimated to be five to ten times higher than the number of reported cases. women were very often reluctant to talk about violence, either because of the trauma they had experienced or because of a sense of shame. they didn't believe they could be helped. others had no idea that violence was involved. for these reasons, i agree with the rapporteur, mrs carlshamre, who in her report stressed that the priority solution to this problem is to raise the level of information throughout society. this report is a call for action by governments and parliaments in the member states to break the silence on violence against women. violence cannot be a private matter, but it must become a public matter, a problem for all of us. only true data collection on violence will be the right way to describe the nature of this serious problem and help to guide efforts to eliminate it. the contribution to this can be made not only by active ngos, the media, research and educational institutions, but also by all of us who do not intend to tolerate this serious social problem which is an obstacle to the development of a democratic society. in conclusion, let me thank the rapporteur for her work.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. it often seems that there is nothing new to be said about equality between men and women. we often just go through repetitions. unfortunately, that's not a sign that we're done talking about this topic. rather, it means talking about the same problems over and over again, because in practice progress is relatively slow, and progress is sometimes followed by setbacks. the fact that there have been many directives and recommendations on equal opportunities for men and women since the treaty of rome is a clear indication that the situation is not changing very quickly. the report (which i congratulate) again points out that the directive 75/117/ec, which was adopted just 30 years ago, prohibits the differential between men's and women's pay, but it also mentions that the latest data show an average of 15% between 4% and 25% between men's and women's pay. the question is also how many countries have implemented and enforced the latter directive 113/2004 to a satisfactory degree. or look at the fate of the commitments adopted by the council in barcelona in 2002 to reconcile family life and professional careers. these are both indicators of higher female employment and may also be a turning point in the demographic crisis. the european union's legislation is becoming irrelevant. rules can be broken repeatedly without consequence. the authority of the eu institutions is diminished when their commitments are only on paper. i trust that the commission will monitor more closely the implementation and enforcement of the legislation.
the citizens of the new member states were very positive about the courage of the united kingdom, ireland and sweden, which opened their labour markets immediately after the enlargement of the union in may 2004. the report presented by commissioner spidl confirmed that the three countries did not suffer from the opening up of labour markets, but that on the contrary, people from the new member states helped fill unattractive jobs for domestic workers and thus contributed to the economic growth of these countries. i believe that, on the basis of a positive report from the european commission, the other 12 member states will follow the three countries mentioned and lift the temporary restrictions on the free movement of workers on the labour market for euro coins. i am sure that austria and germany will also understand that it is better to remove the existing obstacles to the free movement of workers from the eastern states than to relocate entire german and austrian companies to the east. i am pleased that the commission has received significant support from the european social partners. the umbrella employers' organisation unice and, surprisingly, the european trade union confederation have also spoken out in favour of ending the transition period. only the german and austrian trade unionists were against.
rapporteur of the committee on regional development, requested for an opinion. as a member of the committee on regional development and rapporteur for the recently adopted report on state aid for regional development, allow me to say a few words in terms of the possible effects of the state aid reform on economic, social and territorial cohesion. as the commission rightly observes in its document, the granting of state aid is an important factor in ensuring balanced regional development and thus in supporting one of the fundamental economic pillars of the european union. i'd like to take this opportunity to highlight the regional bonuses. it seems logical to me that in our efforts to achieve the lisbon parameters we must invest more in the regions which are lagging behind, so as not to create only advanced, competitive enclaves which will inevitably drag behind them the backward regions and thus tie the hands of the european union's overall expansion. i would also like to stress the need for simplicity of procedures and transparency of the whole system of granting state aid. maximum transparency should be the alpha and omega of the state aid awarding/approval process. all applicants for such aid must be absolutely convinced that if they did not receive state aid for their activities, it was for objective reasons. they must also be informed about who has been helped and why, because only by creating a spirit of trust will we enable citizens to believe in a single system for the functioning of the european union. national governments are an important element that can both support and undermine this system. if they are to be given more responsibility for state aid decisions, their decisions and actions must be an integral part of the transparency of the whole system. i hope, mr president, that on the basis of the reform of the granting of state aid we will all be able to conclude that the system has been improved, perfected and will clearly and objectively contribute to the balanced development of the european union.
let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr hökmark, for an excellent report which is very well balanced and provides sufficient information for a thorough assessment and implementation of state aid policy. on the one hand, we are naturally interested in ensuring that state aid granted in individual member states does not distort the natural competitive environment. on the other hand, i am very pleased that the commission, in its action plan for state aid reform, takes into account the need to strengthen the european union's economy by developing the knowledge-based economy that we have been calling for for so long. in my contribution, i would like to highlight the area of innovation, research and development, which is closely linked to access to risk capital. these are precisely the areas where well-targeted public resources can be invested with a high rate of return in the form of sustainable development and increased competitiveness of the european economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. the public-private partnership model for the creation of research and development centres, technology incubators, high-tech centres with a significant university status, but also local and regional authorities and third-sector institutions, can make a significant contribution to greater transparency in the use of public resources, while making full use of the scientific, technological and innovative potential in individual member states. the same applies to venture capital funds. without public resources, it is almost impossible to establish the seed capital funds so necessary for innovative start-ups. state aid policy should certainly not hinder their development, but on the contrary, stimulate and attract sufficient private capital. i believe that the state aid reform will fulfil these conditions.
i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur edit herczog for her detailed analysis of the impact of globalisation on the internal market and for accepting my amendments in the preparation of this coherent report. i agree with the rapporteur that if the phenomenon of globalisation is to be perceived positively, it is necessary that the widest possible range of stakeholders, including small and medium-sized enterprises, should be able to benefit from it. what must the european union do to compete with america and the large, fast-growing economies, especially those in asia, in the future? first, investment in education, research and development must be a priority, because only then can the european union compete with high added value in its goods and services. as the knowledge economy cannot be realised without an appropriate strategy and adequate funding, the incomprehensible reduction in expenditure on education and research, which threatens such important activities as the 7th framework programme, must be reviewed before the financial perspective for 2007-13 is adopted. this is also the point made by the european university association, a major academic association of national rectors' conferences and universities in europe. secondly, we must support in particular start-ups, smes, as they form the backbone of the entire economic system, and improve their access to risk capital at an early stage of their development. third, the 12 member states of the european union must embrace the message of the european commission that closing down labour markets is unnecessary. fourthly, it is necessary to remove barriers to the internal market by agreeing to the amended and improved draft services directive by the imco committee. ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is both an opportunity and a great challenge for europe. if we don't use it, we lose the competition.
i want to thank mrs. roth for the excellent report. in europe, there are only a few regions in a few countries that have set successful strategies and embarked on the path of renewable energy production. this divergence is not based on different options but on different policy frameworks. the only way forward is to set common, and i stress this, common, ambitious objectives and to monitor their achievement. i would like to stress that incentives for investors who go the renewable route are essential. one of the proposed incentives, also mentioned by mr březina, will allow the use of a lower vat rate. it's a good incentive, but it's not going to motivate countries that have a flat tax, for example. i believe that the future of europe will not be a path of equal taxation, but we must expect that the countries that have introduced it will not want to give it up. to conclude, one example: in the city where i have been mayor for the last seven years, we now produce 15% of our energy from renewable sources. in two years' time, it will be 50%, thanks also to the structural funds, for which i want to thank you.
the european parliament has rarely been in the spotlight as much as it was when it decided on this important directive. the european commission, the council, smes and trade unions are waiting for the outcome of our vote. it is a welcome result of democracy and the acceptance of the representatives of the european citizens. but it does involve a great deal of responsibility. we will decide on the services directive, which is a breath of fresh air, a new dynamic for the revised lisbon strategy. the services directive will directly benefit smes in particular, in particular by simplifying and facilitating the provision of services in other member states. for the new member states, full liberalisation of the services market is particularly important. that is why i am in favour of bringing the articles on posting back into the directive. i would like to highlight the work of the shadow rapporteur, malcolm harbour, who, by agreement between the right-wing and liberal groups, has managed to maintain the country of origin rule called freedom to provide services, with member states having the possibility of reserving the service provider for reasons of health and environmental protection. however, i have a problem with the compromise amendment, which includes a reservation on grounds of consumer protection or social policy, in that it allows the authorities in the country of destination to block access to a service provider from another member state at any time and thus negates the principle of the country of origin. it seems to me that the public debate on this directive has been too much oriented towards criticism of the principle of country of origin. very little has been written so far about the major contribution of the directive, which is to simplify administrative cooperation, to create a single point of contact or a single electronic form. in conclusion, let me thank rapporteur evelyn gebhard for her hard work in preparing this report.
an hour ago, it was reported in this chamber that only trade unionists from the old member states had come to strasbourg to demonstrate against the directive. in fact, their colleagues from the new member states also came and, if you listened to them carefully, you would find that they were not opposed to the directive at all. ladies and gentlemen, you will remember very well that we recently rejected by a large majority the proposal that the council agreed to when it adopted the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. we put the european interest before the partial selfish interests. we were able to unite in the interest of the whole european union. i was proud that we had not been swayed and that we had found a consensus on the floor of the european parliament. with a document as important as the services directive, compromise is very important. i think the reporter did a good job. i think we've reached a number of acceptable compromises. i therefore believe that our vote will support a european path that has no losers and is the best solution for both the old and the new member states.
i believe that the problem for the reasonable and peace-minded people of the world is not iran. iran is a country where people like us live, with their daily joys and worries. our problem is not the country and its citizens, our problem is one person, mahmoud ahmadinejad, who happens to be the president of iran, and his religious fundamentalism. everything else, whether it's the resumption of the nuclear program, the brutal verbal attacks against the state of israel, or its primitive and reprehensible disregard for the holocaust, the greatest horror and genocide in human history so far, it's all just the consequences of the diseased brain of one fanatic. so i think it's important to separate the two and not to identify the president with the country. but the sad truth is that sick minds have been able to bring wars into our history, not just their own nation and country, but many times entire regions, and twice even the whole world. that's their biggest danger. ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious, but not hopeless. but fundamentalism will never be defeated by any other form of fundamentalism, and that's my message to our friend george bush. we have a responsibility and we must be considerate so that one day future generations will not blame us for not having dealt with this grave situation.
we have experienced the current situation in belarus in our country for forty years, since the so-called victory february in 1948. the state apparatus controlled by the communist party brutally suppressed not only any opposition but also all manifestations and signs of a free democratic society and the rule of law. it is difficult to appreciate the consequences of dictatorship unless one has experienced it firsthand. we are concerned that the repressive measures taken by the belarusian authorities against civil society in belarus are steadily escalating ahead of the upcoming elections in the country. the violent liquidation of the independent press and ngos continues. by decision of the supreme court of belarus of 6 february 2006, another non-governmental organisation in the country, the belarusian union of youth and children's associations, was dissolved. it is right that the european union is increasing pressure on belarus. i appreciate that it has not been limited to statements of concern about the crackdown on independent media, ngos and religious organisations, and some educational institutions in this country. in particular, i welcome the commission's decision to provide financial support for independent radio broadcasting in belarus. the radio station deutsche welle also deserves credit. i hope that the original decision to broadcast in russian has been changed and that belarusians are listening to their native language on these waves, which is especially important now before the elections. according to my contacts with representatives of the democratic forces of belarus, a russian-only broadcast could have the opposite effect. the european institutions should also aim to pursue a common approach to achieving concrete democratic changes in the country before the elections.
the community strategic guidelines for rural development for the 2007-2013 programming period are a good and necessary document. i support the amendments of our committee on agriculture and rural development because they improve on the proposal submitted by the council. i respect and appreciate your good work, ms. mcguinness. the strategy calls for rural development to accompany the implementation of the new market-oriented common agricultural policy and to support the first market pillar of that policy. it's all right. however, there are legitimate concerns about the real benefits of rural development from the proposed budgetary restrictions of the common agricultural policy in the financial perspective. further concerns arise from the course of the wto negotiations, where it is shown that european farmers could be harmed in competition with the rest of the world. however, there are also risks from the restrictive nature of ongoing reforms, such as the sugar reform, as well as other reforms in preparation. the analyses also point to the risk of weakening the rural economy by the transition to the single payment per farm, etc. of course, all these risks are greatest in the new member states. for example, in my country, slovakia, the transition to the single payment per farm is expected to reduce agricultural production by a further 17%. these are dramatic figures, since, in particular as a result of the discriminatory effect of the common agricultural policy in the new member states, we have increased food imports by half in two years and the export-import balance in agricultural trade in slovakia has deteriorated by a full one third. the typical rural regions that suffer the most are the most backward, and their backwardness is becoming more and more visible. all eu commitments are to ensure that our policies contribute to the recovery of the regions lagging behind. according to the findings of the slovak ngo rural parliament, the slovak countryside is completely dependent on the prosperity of agricultural enterprises for its rural development. where farmers thrive, the countryside thrives. where rural entrepreneurs fail, the whole village fails and there is no rural development. the new member states are thus clearly rural economies in short supply, due to the uneven operation of the market pillar of the common agricultural policy.
when i voted on the evelyn gebhardt report on the services directive, i abstained on the grounds that it did not pass amendment 250, which was tabled by the meps from the new member states in the epp-ed group and which they considered to be a key point for the new member states. this amendment was intended to add article 35a to the directive, replacing articles 24 and 25 on the posting of workers, which were excluded from the commission's proposal during the imco vote. this is a simplification of the procedures for posting workers, as the posting of workers directive does not provide for administrative cooperation between the country of origin and the country of destination. i am glad that the directive was approved in the european parliament at first reading, but i am sad that the meps from the new member states were not supported again.
for more than five years, financial authorities, including financier george soros, have warned and urged governments around the world to take action to ensure stability and transparency in financial markets. the proposed european parliament resolution on the strategy for the revision of the international monetary fund therefore rightly points to the part of the mission of this global institution which is financial stability. the draft resolution also correctly points to the weakening of this role due to the lack of global and transparent attention to the standardisation process in the financial markets. the consistent implementation of this task by the international monetary fund would undoubtedly have a positive impact on the stability of financial markets. the increasing pressure on financial markets is also due to the ever-increasing volumes of derivatives trading, in which the united states is the leader. the volume of derivatives transactions has long exceeded the volume of transfers in the real productive economy. developments in these derivatives markets can therefore be a time bomb for the world financial markets and the world economy in general, and i believe that much more attention should be paid to this in our report. for that reason, i support the resolution proposed by rapporteur hamon. i thank him for his work.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking today as chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in this parliament. i also speak as a woman who stands in solidarity with women forced into prostitution. it's not acceptable for a woman to be forced into prostitution, it's not acceptable for her to sell her body. indeed, ladies and gentlemen, never has the news been so sad. in the german capital, near the olympic stadium, a 3,000-square-meter mega-restaurant has just opened its doors to accommodate 650 customers at a time. more than 40,000 poor girls will be "imported" from the east to satisfy the post-match football world cup spectators. the fight against trafficking in women and the fight against forced prostitution is a priority for women politicians too, and certainly also when one is called angela merkel. let us invite her to join us in our voice! we have privileged tools at our disposal, elected politicians of all stripes. let us reject this decadence, let us make our voices heard here in the european parliament, but also in our member states, in the council of europe and in all the forums where we can make our voices heard. let's make ourselves heard, loud and clear. this is not the first time that the various agencies of the united nations, the council of europe and the institutions of the european union have used sport as a vehicle to convey a message of civility and progress. the authorities want us to believe that this is an unfortunate coincidence. but the lawyer for the group that built this "pleasure palace" said that "football and sex go together". how is it that, in the highest levels of football, this doesn't seem to scandalize anyone? the incitement of young men to organised bestiality with young women does not seem to shock anyone, the lack of prevention and protection of victims against this organised degradation does not scandalize. fifa president joseph blatter wrote to the women's rights committee that his organization was not responsible for what was happening outside the stadiums. uefa, but also the heroes of the national teams are not saying a word. uefa has set itself the goal of promoting football in europe in a spirit of peace, without any form of discrimination. the world of football is a world of men: the reality in the stadiums proves it. it's the men who ask for the prostitution and abuse the women. that is why i am also addressing the men, my fellow politicians and all the influential men. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would point out that we can already count on public support from men to combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution. i would like to thank our colleague christopher heaton-harris, a professional referee himself, for making the sport intergroup a voice against trafficking in women and forced prostitution. i thank our colleague simon coveney, who is here chairing the action of businessmen against human trafficking and the campaign stop the trafficking. finally, i invite you all to support the impressive work of the council of europe, which launched the first 'convention on combating trafficking in human beings' in warsaw on 16 may 2005: to date, only 11 of our member states have signed it. none of them have ratified it yet. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all possible legal instruments and political measures must be used to prohibit women from being used as sex workers, not only in berlin but throughout the world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: human trafficking is undoubtedly a fundamental violation of human rights and one of the most shameful phenomena of our time. the modern slavery we are witnessing simply does not belong in a civilized society. the enormous scale of this phenomenon means that europe will suffer a mass of 100,000 victims. it is estimated that women and girls used for forced sexual services account for 85% of the victims. i would like to comment on two questions in this context. the european convention against trafficking in human beings exists in relation to legal instruments. the council of europe website states that 13 european countries, member states of the european union, have not yet signed the convention and no country has ratified it. even the european community did not sign this document. what does mr frattini, as commissioner responsible, intend to do about this? secondly, i would like to express serious doubts about whether it is possible to combat trafficking in human beings effectively if we ignore the demand side with only minor exceptions and tolerate the use of services. analyses show that europeans spend billions of euros on such services each year, and demand is driving this booming business. i look forward to the strategy presented and the promised announcement of action plans against trafficking in human beings, which i believe creates the appropriate space for us to discuss further these important issues and to address this problem.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join those who thank and appreciate the work of mr papadimoulis in drawing up this report. the european union has recently experienced an increase in the frequency of natural, but also technological and industrial disasters. i agree with the idea of combining prevention of these disasters and rapid response to the consequences of these disasters, and i fully support it. the two actions are inseparable. prevention can only be used if we can identify a potential disaster before it occurs. many disasters, however, are unpredictable. so in this case, there can be no prevention, and then we're just dealing with the consequences of the accident. i am pleased that my amendments to this report have been accepted. the main objective of this regulation is to protect people, but it is also necessary to specify protection, and in particular the protection of public health and safety of people. it is also appropriate to involve third countries in this process, in the framework of the principle of solidarity, since we must be aware that natural, technological and industrial disasters, as well as terrorist attacks, know no borders. however, i must point out that it is also necessary to protect the community's financial interests and therefore i recommend that article 12 of the proposal be amended to read as follows: 'if the beneficiary of financial assistance is unable to substantiate the use of the assistance in a satisfactory manner and, even after an additional call, is unable to demonstrate the use of the financial assistance in accordance with the regulation, we must have mechanisms for reimbursement. the commission must, and cannot, cancel the financial aid and recover the funds granted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i read with interest the european commission's report of 8 february, which clearly shows that the mobility of workers within the european union has positive effects. migrant workers have helped to eliminate labour market gaps, helped to expand the shortage of skilled labour in a given environment, reduced the potential for illegal work and, overall, contributed to better economic efficiency in europe. a month ago we debated and adopted a report on the opening up of the services market in the european union at first reading. i mention the services directive because at some point it may have a strong link with the freedom of movement of workers. the critical moment may occur when, on the one hand, the services directive enters into force and, on the other, the country concerned continues to impede the free movement of workers. these workers will be limited in their willingness to change employers, even if such a change would be beneficial not only to them but also to the target country. the country can eliminate this risk by abolishing the transitional periods. ladies and gentlemen, of course, free movement of workers alone is not a solution to the sustainability of a particular state's social model. models that are not efficient are not sustainable in the face of the growing strain on public finances due to globalisation, technological change and population ageing. but the free movement of workers is not and cannot be the cause of their problems. european legislation cannot prescribe to its member states whether or not to abolish transitional periods. in any event, these countries should address the root cause of their economic problems. then they too will see the free movement of workers as an asset and not a threat.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my deep gratitude to lissy gröner and amalia sartori for their excellent teamwork in the committee on women's rights. i would like to ask the iconoclastic question: could we do without a monitoring centre dealing exclusively with the differences in treatment between men and women? for thirty years, despite all our european directives, the persistent inequality of treatment between men and women in all economic activities has been an insult to our democracy. the demographic issue is not resolved. in the interests of fathers, mothers and children, we urgently need to achieve reconciliation between family life and working life. the lisbon strategy is far from a success. who is serious about creating human capital for future generations? who takes solidarity between generations seriously? these economic, informal and non-monetary activities represent hard work and are mostly done by women. the role of men in the process of gender equality is also completely ignored. i therefore believe that it is not unnecessary to promote ways of monitoring and denouncing the unacceptable differences in the treatment of women compared with men. any initiative that objectively denounces these injustices, far beyond the political divisions, will be welcome.
ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a european institute for gender mainstreaming, this longstanding crucial role underlined by the treaty of amsterdam and positively influenced by the process following the fourth world conference on women in beijing, has become a topic of political debate for both its proponents and opponents. i am one of the supporters of the common line of the rapporteurs, mrs gröner and mrs sartori, who have succeeded in finding a common solution on behalf of the two largest political groups in the european parliament. i appreciate their work on this report and, in particular, their patient explanatory campaign in favour of establishing this institution as a coordinator with the role of technical support for the implementation of the european union's gender policy, a catalyst and partner of the existing institutions, a disseminator of information and a provider of visibility on gender equality issues. i do not support the amendment to include it in the european union agency for fundamental rights based in vienna, because this issue would be turned into a partial agenda, which in no way meets the european union's ambition to strengthen its policy of equal opportunities. as recent reports show, the gap between men and women still exists. the existence of inequality is a matter of society as a whole, not just women. the establishment of the institute is an essential building block of the newly adopted roadmap for the implementation of equal opportunities policy. financially, the institute will not be a significant burden, as the financial security is based on resources already in use today. its added value is also in its action outside the european union, especially in enlargement, where equal opportunities is also and will be a topical agenda. in conclusion, i believe that the establishment of this institution in one of the new member states will be in the interests of a uniform decentralisation of institutions in the european union.
i thank the rapporteurs for the preparation of this report, which should culminate in the creation of a european institute for gender equality. the institute will be responsible for collecting and analysing data on gender equality in the countries of the union, as well as organising conferences and campaigns. i think it would be very wrong to call into question the establishment of the institute and in this context i also object to calling into question the slovak republic as its possible future seat. my fellow officers. i'm not going to list all the institutions that are located in the territory of the old 15. i respect that when the union was founded and for its further development it was necessary to set up such centres in the framework of the coordination of common procedures. so i urge you all to cast your votes to create this institution. the institute for gender equality could act as an ombudsman for women, which should be an intermediary between the government and ngos in eliminating injustices such as the elimination of discrimination in employment relations. after all, it is well known that the lowest wages are in so-called women's professions, in education and health care, and the highest wages are in male professions, such as the military and the police. is the health and education of the next generation less important?
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my vote on mr matsakis' report on the community strategy on mercury was such that i abstained. i want to tell you why. i am a dentist by profession and i know that proposals to phase out amalgam from dental clinics in the short term are not realistic, especially in the new member states, mainly for economic reasons, as dental fillings which are not made of amalgam are up to three times more expensive, which would lead to an unreasonable burden on health insurance companies. at the same time, the evidence on the harmfulness of amalgam use is not clear and is not sufficient. there is a clear need to improve the collection of amalgam waste in dental clinics, but not to seek to eliminate mercury amalgam from dental practice. moreover, i believe that the legislation in question should be left to the member states. these are the views of the slovak dental chamber and the reasons why i did not vote in favour of the report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. president horst köhler said this afternoon that many people do not understand the europe of today. when you see the enormous energy that europe is putting into re-shaping its migration policy, i believe that you have to be very confused about the problem of child poverty in europe. while we talk about the lack of highly skilled migrants, we are also talking about the inevitable and enormous losses that child poverty causes, and that future generations will rightly demand from us. the report on social protection and social inclusion which you have before you is therefore not by chance focused mainly on child poverty, because while 15 per cent of europeans are at risk of poverty, for children it is 19 per cent, and in 12 of the 25 member states, according to 2004 data, the risk of poverty for children is at least 25 per cent higher than for the adult population. i want to emphasize that this is not an emotional or possibly legal issue, because the international convention on the rights of the child contains an obligation to do so. europe also faces the fact that in the coming decades, as a result of the population crisis and the ageing of society, it will need 50 million new migrants to maintain its current employment levels. child poverty, the associated exclusion, and the high rate of early school leaving call into question the possibility of designing a knowledge-based society in such a way that new and new social strata are not created. the committee rightly gives priority to the problem of child poverty, but we see that we do not have accurate data, we do not have comparable data on child poverty. this situation obviously needs to be remedied urgently. in my report, i wanted to emphasise that social inclusion is an added value to the lisbon process. european social policy needs a new solidarity between generations, since the damage caused by child poverty and the associated lack of human resources training in the future should not be underestimated. i am sure that many problems could be raised in the report, and in the absence of time i would perhaps mention one more. the exclusion of older workers from the labour market. although there is a valid anti-discrimination policy, discrimination still exists, although it is more difficult to enforce. i am convinced that the commission has chosen the right path when it set clear and traceable objectives for the modernisation of social protection. last but not least, i would like to thank the secretariat of the committee on employment and social affairs for their excellent cooperation and for the amendment proposed by my colleagues. not least of all, of course, that you're here and participating in the debate.
the revision of the community's 'financial bible' has implications not only for the institutional framework of the european union but also for its citizens. the rapporteur, mrs grässle, has dealt very well with the commission's proposal and we now have a good proposal on the table. i focus on the points i consider most important. we need to define clearly the role and co-responsibility of the member states in the management of community finances. in relation to the structural funds, in the interests of transparency, reliability, efficiency and the good name of the european union in the eyes of its citizens, we must ensure transparent and rapid administrative procedures with clearly defined responsibilities for each actor. the same applies to public procurement. here too, we often encounter ambiguities and unnecessary delays in procedures. as a former mayor, i have had some negative personal experience with this issue. i believe that by adopting the document we will contribute to a better functioning of the financial system in the european union and thus to a better understanding of the european union by the citizens.
ladies and gentlemen. this is yet another example of intolerance between two states that we respect but which do not respect each other. attack on prison and attack on political prisoners is never and nowhere accepted with understanding, nor has it ever been in history. even a political prisoner has the right to be in prison, but not to be threatened with a sentence without trial. today's attack on the prison is also reminiscent of the execution of a certain sentence. of course, this will cause further reactions and tension on both sides and it will be, as you might say, a never ended story. i was sincerely looking forward to the palestinian authority president's speech here today, both at the press conference and at the joint lunch, and i expected that we would also hear the visions that palestine would bring to the negotiating table and that would allow peace to finally be secured for the ordinary lives of people in this part of the world. i had hoped, and perhaps expected, that the european parliament would take on the role of moderator of some sort. i would very much like us to offer this help, because both these parts of the world need peace now.
ladies and gentlemen, let me also thank mr trakatellis for his excellent report. i fully support its idea of dividing it into two parts, one for health promotion and one for consumer protection for the period 2007 to 2013. i myself contributed to the report with a number of amendments, and i am pleased that some of them have been adopted. in particular, the one which is most important to me, namely the proposal on the new member states. there are marked differences between the healthcare systems in the member states of the european union. the new member states are the worst. the new member states face significant health problems and have less funding to improve the situation. the lack of investment in healthcare in these countries is a major obstacle to their development, as well as to the growth of the european union as a whole. it should be emphasised that there is a possibility of financing programmes which are aimed at health purposes from the european union's structural funds. for the new member states, this information can also be an opportunity and a hope to improve the quality of services. it is a mistake to think that health care is not a european union competence but is subject to national legislation within the framework of subsidiarity. i appreciate the effort to include patient safety in the report. the complexity of access by european union citizens to health services in another country is an obstacle to the realisation of free movement. it is necessary to define more precisely the ambiguous rules concerning reimbursement of medical services, since the current provisions and decisions of the european court of justice are also unclear and incomprehensible to the european citizen. it may be appropriate, in the interests of the patient, to establish a database of information on healthcare providers in the territory of other member states. it would certainly be a positive thing for patients, perhaps eliminating long waiting times for certain procedures. the media can also contribute to improving the health of the population. it would be appropriate to replace the various 'reality shows' and to address in a catchy way the problems of nutrition, which ultimately contribute to obesity as well as cardiovascular and cancer diseases. media involvement in health issues is also important in the current period from the point of view of national security, as the possibility of terrorist attacks by spreading infectious diseases has emerged. thus, when an epidemic occurs, the population has basic knowledge of how to defend itself against these diseases. the health sector needs more attention and a bigger budget, as we must realise that without a healthy population it will be impossible to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
my fellow officers. people in belarus began to light candles in their homes on the 16th of every month as a silent protest against the continued dictatorial regime in their country. in the context of the upcoming presidential elections on sunday, i therefore ask you, also on behalf of my colleagues peter szczesny and milan galya, to light candles in your homes, apartments and offices at 4 p.m. today, as a sign of solidarity with the belarusian people, and thus express your support for the democratization of belarusian society. the light of the candle symbolizes the hope for a new life, a new beginning, freedom and democracy. it will be a beautiful sign of european solidarity with belarus.
my fellow officers. first of all, i would like to thank mrs marianne thyssen for her work on this report, which was not an easy one. i fully support the rapporteur's reasoning that an action programme for consumer protection cannot be integrated into a programme for the protection of public health. by separating them, the two policies, which are very important to citizens, will be given greater weight. although the original union and the new member states have taken better care of consumers, the current situation cannot be satisfactory. the level of consumer protection support, particularly in the area of consumer organisation funding, is inadequate, even alarming, in the new member states. for example, in slovakia, the subsidy is less than a tenth of the similar aid in the surrounding countries. scheduled payments arrive very late, and even very small grants are often cut, threatening their survival and the independence and creativity of the activities. i am convinced that a joint action programme would exacerbate these negative consequences. consumers are the cornerstone of a market economy. being a consumer is becoming increasingly complex and complex in the wake of the enlargement of the union. we, 450 million european citizens, are directly affected by a range of issues, from the safety of the products we buy, to trust in the trade, to online shopping and advertising. since many of these problems transcend national boundaries, we need intensive and preventive discipline that will equip us with the confidence to avoid becoming a plaything in the hands of corporate firemen. these reasons must also be relevant to the commission in order to approve a specific action programme for consumer protection policy with a sufficient financial package. the community action programme in the field of consumer protection for the period 2007-2013 is an important framework for achieving a balanced functioning of the internal market, which responds to consumer needs and requirements and which establishes balanced and correct relations between the consumer and business spheres. independent european consumer organisations, which educate the future european consumer, expect a major turnaround and certainty in funding. they expect the european union to have a clear vision, rules and to remove bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. however, special attention should be paid to assistance to the new member states and accession countries. the announcement of this report is being made on a symbolic date, as 15 march is world consumer rights day. by adopting this report, we will send a clear signal that the european parliament's priority is to create a decent and fair european society for consumers.
in the context of the european union's geopolitical strategy, i would like to highlight an important (though well-known) fact, which is the complete dependence of most of the new member states on oil and gas supplies from russia, in contrast to most of the old member states, where energy supplies are more diversified. in this case, it is probably not even necessary to recall the recent negative experience with this addiction in relation to ukraine. the new member states are particularly sensitive to the security of energy supply. in the quest to catch up with the old member states as quickly as possible, the issue of security of supply is even more pressing. in particular, in the area of electricity supply, several new member states have an energy mix dominated by nuclear power generation. i personally agree with the principle of subsidiarity in the development of this type of energy, but i cannot ignore the principle of solidarity, which will enable individual member states to develop this type of energy at least without external negative interference. i welcome the commission's initiatives to promote research in this area with a view to obtaining even safer forms of nuclear energy, such as research into recycling or fusion technologies and the like. however, i must stress that it is precisely for this research that the new financial perspective does not provide sufficient financial resources. the green paper on energy strongly favours the role of renewable energy sources. i have no major objections to that. however, the commission must accept responsibly the fact that some member states want to continue developing nuclear energy, mainly for two reasons: firstly, the potential for the development of renewable sources in these countries is low and their long-term sustainability cannot be counted on, and secondly, they have very good experience with energy that is safe, environmentally acceptable and, when using new technologies, also sustainable in the long term.
the known outcome of the presidential elections in belarus was to be expected. the closure of the elections is the result of violence, fraud and arrests of citizens, or a gross violation of the basic rules of free and democratic elections. what can follow this election? it seems that a chapter in the struggle of democratic forces in belarus has been closed, but it is not possible to wait idly. citizens have been protesting in the streets of minsk for the fifth day. what can we, the european parliament and the european union, do? first of all, we must not recognize the election results. and it follows that we must reject, ignore and isolate the president of belarus from the world. secondly, the european union and the european parliament must now explicitly support only democratic opposition forces and civil society organisations, or society as it has come to be known. and not just morally, but specifically and financially. the integration of belarusian opposition parties into european party structures can also be an effective step. a good example is the activity of the hungarian coalition party in slovakia, which last year signed an agreement with the belarusian national front and the united civic party and is also the epp's manager on this issue. as a result, both parties will be admitted as epp observer members at the congress in rome next week. thirdly, the european union, or more precisely the commission, should develop a clear, more effective and coherent new strategy. we must not allow eu financial support to be provided through a lukashenka administration with uncontrollable outputs. the slovak republic is in favour of a more stringent and tougher procedure. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must not let lukashenko rest and return to the concept of 'business as usual', because so far the eu, as the most important economic partner, has actually contributed significantly to maintaining this regime.
in my speech, i would like to highlight some of the ideas that emerge from the resolution on the state of the energy economy in the context of the wider economic policy objectives for 2006. without making any unnecessary fuss about the slowdown in economic activity in europe, these points strike at the heart of the problem. first of all, miracles don't happen by themselves. i therefore agree with the need for a deeper analysis of the structural reform policies of the last decade. this is intended to clarify the reasons for the persisting slow growth and lack of productivity. the challenge of a smart growth strategy is also important. it is intended to consolidate the different approaches to the economic policy of the european union into a coherent strategy. the aim is to strengthen the european union's potential for a new generation of products and production methods, while integrating information and communication technologies. i also support the call for the member states of the european union to support private investment. the reorientation of investment expenditure, both public and private, towards investments that increase overall economic performance and productivity will also be important. however, this approach will also need to be promoted and implemented in the structure of the use of european union funds, as it is true that the darkest part of the day is always under the lamp.
first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, mr garcia-margallo, on his very accurate and balanced report. one of the serious problems facing the european union today, and one which is repeated often in this report, is the underestimation of the need for more robust structural reforms in most member states. paradoxically, as a natural consequence of the rejection of these reforms, some member states replace the loss of competitiveness by additional safeguards for their markets, thus exacerbating the problem. it must therefore be stated that the internal market is not fully functional without the possibility of labour mobility and the free provision of services. the consequences of such an approach are highly unfavourable. companies relocate their operations to areas with cheaper labour, in some cases using outsourcing, which also results in job losses. one of the serious macroeconomic effects of such policies is then low economic growth and, naturally, with the unchanged structure of public finances, their growing deficit, often beyond the terms of the stability and growth pact. if we deduce from this the low level of investment in research, technological development and innovation and add the high energy dependence of most member states, it is difficult to expect a more significant increase in the competitiveness of the european economy compared to major global players such as the usa and china. the response to these challenges must be to move as quickly as possible towards a fully functioning internal market free of any discriminatory and unnecessary regulatory measures. the harmonisation of european legislation must promote a competitive environment, not hinder its development. the attempt to harmonize corporate income tax is, unfortunately, one example. the application of the principle of subsidiarity must be a major factor in the whole range of commission initiatives to increase the internal competitiveness of individual member states and thus of the european union as a whole. in this context, i also welcome the action programme on state aid reform, which creates scope for further investment in research, technological development and innovation for smes. the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy should also be welcomed.
the free movement of persons and access to labour markets has undoubtedly become a sensitive political issue. the rapporteur, mr őry, has very happily tackled this subject without dividing the member states. on the contrary, its report is based on the real effects of access by citizens of the new member states to the labour markets of the old 15 and on the premise that the real problem for european competitiveness is not that the member states are competing with each other, but external competition such as india and china. the report is based on the facts that: firstly, workers from the new member states do not exceed two per cent of the domestic population anywhere; secondly, internal migration within the old member states is four times higher than internal migration within the fifteen; thirdly, migration from third countries significantly exceeds the total internal migration within the eu. there is no doubt that alongside the german, austrian and french views on transition periods, there is a different view in the new member states, as transition periods are also gradually becoming a sensitive policy issue there. we adopted transitional measures in the accession negotiations as part of the 'deal'. however, over time, as the issue becomes more sensitive in the policies of the old member countries, they are increasingly perceived as discriminatory. the discussion on the services directive also showed that absurd situations are created in combination with transitional periods, and directive 109 shows that a legal conflict with the preferential rule clause is created. the fear generated by job insecurity and prejudice is undoubtedly political capital that can be used immediately. but instead of spreading this myth, which is a dead end, it is the responsibility of politicians to speak the truth.
in my meetings with internal market stakeholders, i often encounter criticism of current european legislation. the poorly drafted wording of legislative texts often makes it difficult to transpose them into national law. the participants in the public hearing on this subject, with commissioner verheugen, also confirmed to us that it is often the ambiguity of the text that causes legal uncertainty, or distort competition and fragmentation of the internal market, which weakens the ability of consumers and businesses to fully benefit from it. i therefore welcome the recommendations in the rapporteur's report that the commission should continue to consolidate, simplify and codify community legislation in order to improve its legibility. of course, the rule must be that improvements in legislation must not lead to a weakening of environmental, social and consumer standards. i can also, from my experience in the preparation of my report 'financing european standardisation', agree with the rapporteur that only good, clear and above all simple internal market laws will benefit citizens, consumers and businesses and help the european union to gain a competitive advantage in the global economy. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that better regulation will be the basis for the european institutions' efforts to create jobs and economic growth in the european union, in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy. in conclusion, let me thank all four rapporteurs for the new architecture of better legislation for a europe closer to the citizen.
let me give you two examples. europe is and will be in energy distress. however, due to pressure from the european union and a weak national government, slovakia must close two units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant by 2008. these could have operated at least until 2015 due to safety parameters. slovakia will receive only a fraction of the funds needed to shut down these blocks from european union funds. this year, two new car manufacturers of european significance will enter slovakia. the transport system will have serious problems in ensuring the needs, supply and disposal of production. however, the european union is cutting the transeuropean networks' funding by €20 billion in the long-term financial perspective. this image will certainly not increase the confidence of slovak citizens in the european union's policy.
the free movement of persons and access to labour markets is one of the pillars of european integration. if we do not respect this principle in line with the community's fundamental values, even if america were to come to us, we would not be able to catch up with it and we would not be able to slow down the train coming from asia. i believe that the concerns of some eu-15 countries are unfounded and it is only to their detriment that they do not accept the recommendations of the european commission's report drawn up under the accession treaties. on the other hand, it is worth highlighting the decisions of those countries which open up their labour markets during the european year of workers' mobility. for these reasons, the öry report is not a scarecrow, but a simple guide to the progressive achievement of the objectives set out in the revised lisbon strategy. it is an attempt to bring the old and new member states on an equal footing in a united europe, which is why i voted for this report.
mr solana, commissioner, i have selected from what has been said here the words of mr solana, who defined the situation in both palestine and israel. and from those definitions, you can compare two of these basic pieces of information. while in palestine there is a hamas government which is not willing to accept the basic principles of international law, in israel there may be a government after the elections which will want to deal with the socio-economic aspects which are the most important from the point of view of all people living in democratic societies and which governments should deal with. nevertheless, the european union faces a very difficult task. that role is that, regardless of how we view hamas, and i'm sure most of us view it as a terrorist organization, you, as our top foreign relations officials, must find a way to work with the hamas government. i would just like to ask you to bear in mind that any future funds which the european union will give to the palestinian government and which it will support must be granted only on condition that the palestinian government respects the existence of the state of israel. and i ask you to find out from mr. kofi annan what the palestinian minister of foreign affairs said about the existence of israel in a letter he addressed to him.
i don't think anyone here doubts the undemocratic nature of lukashenko's rule. i also greet mr milinkievich and i also join in supporting the belarusian opposition. however, verbal support is not enough, so i think we should also take other measures. some measures can be taken by the commission, some by the council and some by us as members of parliament. such measures would certainly include starting to look at ways of improving the awareness of the population in belarus, because an informed civil society is a society that is then able to make an important change on its own. as a member of parliament from the slovak republic, where we have been confronted with something similar for many years in the past, i can certainly confirm this. i also think that we need to be very sensitive about the visa requirement, because if we prevent belarusians from travelling to our countries and getting to know another face, as mr lukashenko presents them through his media, we will not increase their awareness.
we are facing a complicated situation after the presidential elections in belarus. we need to make people aware that lukashenko feels like a winner. in the years to come, he will try to consolidate his power even more vigorously. in this connection, we must not forget a very important factor: the russian relations, the close cooperation between the lukashenko system and the russian federation, the economic and energy dependence of the lukashenko system and belarus on the russians. it follows that if the european union is to find an effective solution, it must, not least, put this problem on the agenda of its bilateral negotiations with russia. international pressure must also be increased. the nato communication of 31 march is noteworthy in this respect. we must isolate not only lukashenko, but all the representatives of his administration as much as possible. the conditions for the various grants must be clarified and strictly controlled, and we must be consistently careful not to become accidentally part of the success of the lukashenko system, its consolidation. our priority is to provide not only moral but also thoughtful and concrete financial support to the belarusian democratic forces and civil society organisations led by alexander milinkevich. first of all, the belarusian people must be awakened, informed - on television, on the radio, on the internet and by other means - that this is not what a real democracy, a state of law, looks like. it was an excellent initiative to invite two representatives of the belarusian opposition, alexander milinkevich and the imprisoned vincuk viachorka, to make the dictatorial regime feel clearly that we are all clearly behind them. i hope that you will all support the motion for a resolution which has been tabled.
world health day is observed on april 7 every year. this year's is dedicated to health care workers and it actually kicks off the decade that is dedicated to them. while the world is suffering from problems like health care shortages in developing countries, malaria, hiv, we in the european union also have big health care problems, especially the new part of the european union. the ten new member states have experienced a so-called brain drain and mass migration of doctors and nurses to western europe since joining the eu, thus causing a shortage of doctors in the new member states. we lost mainly young multilingual people who, because of the more attractive conditions in the western part of the union, chose to work there. the chances of them coming home are minimal. the sad fact is that even in these days when we commemorate world health day, a big strike is announced in one of the largest hospitals in slovakia, and more hospitals are gradually being added. this strike is actually about the intolerable conditions under which doctors and nurses work. the salary of a doctor is between eur 350 and 500 per month, the salary of a nurse between eur 250 and 300. so in these conditions, it's not surprising that our highly trained medical staff stay at home. they get 2 euros for an hour of night duty, which is a real shame, and we have to make sure that these people are adequately paid.
the debate in plenary, with the participation of mr milinkevich, was a demonstration of the european parliament's solidarity with the belarusian people in their struggle against the totalitarian regime for freedom and a new tomorrow. in its resolution, the european parliament is clear about the rigged presidential elections. it is a wake-up call against the actions of the dictator who has suppressed by military force a peaceful demonstration of the belarusian people. they have stopped being afraid, even though it is not clear what awaits them. the european parliament's attention is focused on the arrested opposition leaders and calls for their immediate release. the resolution commends the tremendous commitment of young people who are being kicked out of universities. they need to be given a helping hand, for they hold the future of their country in their hands. slovakia is already among the countries that have promised to help such students - they will be able to finish their studies with us. by voting in favour of this resolution, i too wanted to show the need to hold new elections in belarus as soon as possible. lukashenko, even though he won the election by fraud, he didn't win. his loss will be his personal isolation. in conclusion, let me express my conviction that my call to the european parliament to light a candle on the 16th of every month at 4 p.m. as a gesture of solidarity with the belarusian people will not go unheeded and that each of us will do so with love on this date. i believe that the spark of solidarity will never die in the european parliament.
the parliamentary elections in ukraine are a major milestone after the consolidation that started with the orange revolution. the ukrainian people have shown in them that they honor the freedom won in the squares. it has clearly stated its desire to become part of the european union on the basis of its fundamental principles and criteria. it is commendable that the european parliament has not only maintained its support for the orange revolution, but is also continuously monitoring developments in ukraine through its observers. parliamentary democracy is not a given. it must be built up and cared for. slovakia, as an immediate neighbour, is very interested in ukraine's success. it will help ukraine get where it belongs - into the family of european union member states. of course, this will not be immediately, and therefore the european union must find a form of partnership that will develop ukraine's european perspective. this joint resolution demonstrates the political maturity of the european parliament, its ability to find political agreement in a broad consensus and to send a clear signal to the ukrainian people. that is why i voted for him.
ladies and gentlemen, let me also begin by thanking mr salafranca not only for his report but also for the constructive approach he took in the negotiations between the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean which took place in the first days of this week. i also commend mr borrell, president of the european parliament, for his leadership of these negotiations in bregenz, which culminated in the adoption of a joint final declaration. the european union is a key partner for latin american countries, not only in the economic, industrial and scientific-technological fields, but also in helping them democratize their societies. cooperation has reached a stage which requires institutionalisation, and i therefore welcome the proposal to set up a transatlantic euro-latin assembly, which will strengthen and deepen the exchange of information and provide a proper framework for legislative action in the mutual relations. globalisation is closing information gaps and speeding up the transfer of information, and for this reason it requires deepening the human dimension in economic correlations. i want to thank you for including my remarks concerning the situation and status of women in these countries. the trafficking of human beings, the exploitation of women and children for prostitution and the under-representation of women in society are issues that need to be addressed not only in europe but also in latin american countries. i support, commissioner, the creation of a bi-regional solidarity fund, which will be primarily devoted to education, the eradication of illiteracy and the promotion of social cohesion. but please, let this money go where it should go, to the citizens, the students, the future generation, and not to regimes that have problems with democracy. i wish you success in the negotiations in vienna.
after the chernobyl nuclear reactor 4 accident exactly 20 years ago, a radioactive cloud not only hit the territory of the former soviet union but swept across europe. i personally experienced the fear of ignorance, because because of the totalitarian regime in the former czechoslovakia, even we, living in the immediate vicinity of the ukrainian border, were not informed about what had happened, what was threatening us, and how we should protect ourselves. the true extent of the tragedy was not revealed until days later. violations of safety regulations, human error and consequent ignorance have resulted in the unnecessary loss of life of many people, including those in my own neighborhood. the devastated environment and the plight of people suffering from incurable diseases are a warning to us. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to remember in silence the victims of the chernobyl disaster who were not allowed to live to see this day and who are still suffering the consequences.
i look forward to our debate at this late hour, ladies and gentlemen, because small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the whole european economy and deserve our attention. they are the guarantors of innovation, they are flexible and they account for two thirds of total employment. almost every major company started as a small business. examples include volkswagen, microsoft and google. this is proof that supporting innovative business ideas with a good corporate strategy benefits the whole society. a globalising economy, trade liberalisation and common business rules are already bringing new challenges and opportunities to the lives of many business entities. in order for opportunities to be translated into concrete products and services, it is important that conditions exist that stimulate entrepreneurial activity. in my earlier report on the effects of globalisation on the internal market, i had already pointed out the need to create a healthy environment for smes and to ensure their access to financial instruments, in particular access to risk capital at the early stages of their development. i would like to thank the rapporteur, in 't veld, for drawing attention in her report to the use of venture capital as an external long-term source of financing for businesses. access to risk capital is important to foster innovation. state aid should be used for this purpose, which, as a complementary instrument, must be temporary, transparent and targeted. this can improve the competitiveness of national economies and the european single market as a whole. this report is an important signal to the business community that the european parliament is keen to create a stimulating business environment for start-up smes with a unique idea and a lack of financial resources to realize their ambitions, thus ensuring a promising future for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on culture and education, i would like to say that this committee has succeeded in promoting the european legislative framework in the areas in which it has political competence, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and taking into account national interests. these include standards adopted for europass, the european city of culture, key skills reports for lifelong learning, the european qualifications framework, digital libraries and many other areas. this is also the case for the report by mr manolis mauromatis on measures to promote multilingualism and language learning in the european union - the european indicator of language competence - to whom i would like to thank for his work. the report pursues the common objective of the knowledge-based society set out in the lisbon strategy. i see language skills as an integral part of the lifelong learning of the citizens of the european union, and so the report presented by mr maurommatis is another piece of the european education mosaic that fits right into existing schemes and programmes in the field of education. the topic of language learning is important both in terms of facilitating the communication and mobility of students and staff in the european union and in terms of evaluating the skills acquired during citizens' lifelong learning. as rapporteur for the committee on culture and education on the creation of a european qualifications framework, where the main objective is to create a reference structure for the transfer and recognition of qualifications, i consider it important to establish reliable systems for measuring progress and verifying language skills. as there is currently insufficient information to properly assess the language skills of european union citizens, i believe that the proposed european language proficiency indicator should be one of the key criteria used by individual european union member states.
i would like to thank mrs poli bortone for her efforts in producing this report on nutrition and health claims which is before us and which is going to the second reading. at a time when europe is experiencing an increase in obesity and diseases that would not have to exist if we ate healthier, this directive is of paramount importance. the emphasis should shift to consumer information, i.e. non-discriminatory labelling of food. it is necessary that the labelling of a food as 'low calorie' is based on truth and does not mislead the consumer. at the same time, the recommendations of so-called individual doctors or experts are very often merely a commercial trick and are not based on truth. it is unacceptable to label as healthy a product that contains a high amount of calcium, which promotes bone growth, but is full of sugars and fats. low-fat yogurt cannot be recommended as being beneficial to health if it contains 100 g of sugar. chocolate bars cannot be labeled good for children just because they are full of vitamins and minerals. consumers read what is in a food and often base their choice on what is written on the package. consumers must be informed, not misled, by nutrition and health claims. i'm not saying these foods should be banned from the market, but they can't be promoted as healthy based on misleading health and nutrition claims. this will stimulate innovation and force manufacturers to produce more foods that are truly healthy and thus to try to reduce the amount of fat, sugar or salt. i also agree with the rapporteur in amendments nos 28 and 31 that special attention should be paid to children's food, where the supervision of food labelling must be the strictest.
mr. president, i have to ask you... january 1, 2007, is fast approaching, but uncertainty is constant. in romania, despite the commendable efforts of the current government, many serious problems still need to be solved. the copenhagen criteria apply equally to all candidates, as in the past. the regulation of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as respect for human rights and the guarantee of legal security for minorities, raise doubts. in the latter field, there have been a number of positive changes, to which the political representation of the romanian hungarian community, the presence of the rmdsz in the legislature and the government, has contributed significantly. however, the assessment is wrong, as the minister olli rehn has stated, that the rmdsz's membership of the government is a sufficient means to guarantee the legal security of minorities. the political party representing the hungarian community will never be in the majority, and only depending on the majority of romanian political representation, its willingness to compromise, can a result be achieved. the consequence of a lack of sound political will is that some fundamental problems are still waiting to be solved. why is the minority bill so long? furthermore, the provision of university education in the native language of the indigenous hungarian community in the form of an independent hungarian higher education institution has not been solved. a similar unresolved issue is the restitution of church property. the current electoral law discriminating against national and ethnic communities should also be amended in a european sense. ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the minority problem be given proper weight in the commission's report. in these circumstances, when romania has already received a promise from the council that it will become an eu member state as of 1 january, what is the right decision? the sensible solution is to apply a strict control system for three years. of course, only if we specify the necessary sanctions and the conditions for enforcing the protective order.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a great example of a great european union. why do we just put office paper in an envelope? why does a sim card work on every phone? why would it be beneficial to have the same electrical outlets in the european union? these are things that, when they work together, we take for granted that we don't think about them anymore. but there is someone who has to think about these seemingly simple things to make things in our lives take for granted. this 'someone' is the european standardisation system, which includes three european and 29 national standardisation organisations and over 60 000 experts. they prepare european standards which are agreed by consensus and are based on a voluntary basis. since common european standards have an important role to play in removing technical barriers to trade and in promoting the internal market, standardisation policy must be regarded as one of the union's fundamental policies for achieving the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy. european standardisation, mainly through the 'new approach' directives, has been bringing about a significant simplification of european legislation for 20 years. the guidelines developed in the context of the new approach address only the essential requirements for safety, consumer protection and environmental protection. the technical requirements are specified in detailed technical standards. commissioner verheugen, this is the way to go for good european legislation. as an architect by profession, i have often worked with standards that have been my support in designing, assessing and approving buildings. this was one of the reasons why i accepted the task of drawing up the european parliament's report on the commission's proposal on the financing of european standardisation. the objective of this decision is to provide a consolidated legal basis for the financing of european standardisation. despite the fact that european standardisation is essential for the functioning of the internal market, there is as yet no legislative basis at european level to explicitly regulate its financing. at present, the community's share of european standardisation funding is 2%, the share of national organisations is around 5%, and 93% is contributed by enterprises, mainly through the provision of experts. the member states have a responsible role in the field of technical standardisation and must ensure that european standards are transposed into national systems. i am pleased that my country, slovakia, is one of the countries that is transposing european standards most rapidly, thanks also to the slovak institute for technical standardisation. i am convinced that european standardisation is one of the tools that helps to create a favourable business environment. representatives of businesses, as well as other stakeholders, are increasingly aware of the benefits that technical standardisation brings to the business world. the european parliament's priority task must be to enable small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular micro-enterprises and craft enterprises, to use european standards effectively. it is in the community's interest to contribute financially to the translation of standards into all official languages, which will allow fair and transparent access to standards, in particular for small enterprises in the new member states which do not have sufficient financial and human resources to translate professional standards. the development of user manuals to explain and interpret the standards will be beneficial for smes. the almost seven-month process of negotiations between the european parliament, the commission, the council and other interested organisations has convinced me that this issue has its place in community policy. in the approval process, i supported all the amendments that helped to improve the commission's proposal. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their valuable assistance, in particular the shadow rapporteur, ms edit herzog, and the rapporteur, mr paul rübich, of the itre committee, who was asked for an opinion. at the same time, let me thank the representatives of the council and the commission for their exemplary cooperation and for the effort made from the outset to reach a consensus so that the financial framework for european standardisation could be adopted at first reading. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i am confident that my report and its support in the european parliament will also ensure that european standards are adequately funded and that they contribute to a simpler and safer life for all european citizens.
first of all, let me thank my colleague, the slovak mep zita plešťinska, for her work on this challenging report. european standardisation plays an important role in removing technical barriers to trade and thus promotes the development of the internal market of the european union. technical standards replace detailed legislation and simplify rules, ultimately leading to an increase in the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. by defining mandatory essential requirements, they also guarantee a high level of consumer, health and environmental protection. standardisation is essential in sectors such as health, transport, telecommunications, electrical engineering. for example, in the healthcare sector there are around 10 000 different devices and european standards play an important supporting role for legislation in this area. on the one hand, they define in detail the requirements for ensuring high patient safety and, on the other, they encourage innovation. more than 80% of firms in this sector are small and medium-sized enterprises, and i therefore appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur to ensure that these market players also have a fair access to european standards. since 1985, when the so-called new approach to european standardisation was introduced, more than 15 000 standards have been developed. the european community contributes only marginally to the overall funding of european standardisation, but as studies have shown, the benefits to the economy far outweigh the costs. it is therefore important that the community finances the visibility of the whole system not only within the european union but also at international level.
common rules for the common understanding and implementation of technical standardisation are very important tools for creating and securing the conditions, policy implementation and competitiveness and sustainable development of the community, as underlined in the revised lisbon strategy. technical standardisation can be seen as a key component of development in various fields, such as science, industry, the economy, health and others. first of all, the public interest, because it serves everyone, even if it's not obvious at first. we are especially aware of its importance when something does not work as it should. i remember, it wasn't that long ago, when the new member countries had to rebuild their technical base. in the slovak republic, this meant revising more than 25 000 technical standards, abolishing almost half of them without compensation and incorporating 15 000 state technical standards into the remainder, which required considerable financial costs. in this process, the internationally highly regarded and stable state office for standardisation of the slovak republic has a great deal to be commended. we now face the important task of improving the financing of european standardisation to support the competitiveness of european industry as a whole and european policies in global competition. this decision is therefore of immense importance. building, coordinating and developing a complex, multi-pronged technical standardisation mechanism for dynamic operation requires clear, rational and sufficient financial security. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the meritorious and constructive work of mrs palestrinska, who succeeded in finding a general compromise on this important subject.
the agreement reached on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, including the agreement on the financial framework for 2007 to 2013, is undoubtedly a step forward. on the other hand, even reaching an agreement does not remove the points of conflict and improvisation in the adoption of the annual or long-term financial frameworks of the european union. patiently, it will be necessary to continue to seek forms of ongoing communication, in particular between the council and parliament. in other words, communication between members of the european parliament and national parliaments and governments needs to be further deepened. however, the reform of the european union's structures as a budgetary financing body will be a much more complex and urgent task. it is sufficient to mention the notorious need to make agriculture more efficient as the largest recipient of european funds, or to reduce the dispersion of the channelling of funds from the structural funds, where the effectiveness of programmes is often doubtful, the method of financing difficult to control and corruption and clientelism are likely. the starting point could be a gradual shift towards strengthening and more concentrating resources geared towards building trans-european networks. this would create the conditions for the growth of europe's global competitiveness and the european parliament as the guarantor of such national activities would undoubtedly increase its political prestige.
the rapporteur of the committee on foreign affairs, requested for an opinion. i would like to invite my colleagues to consider their position on the legal basis of the proposed regulation. it is necessary to maintain the dual legal basis and thus ensure that the committee on foreign affairs has a role in the development and economic cooperation process in the future. with article 179 as the sole legal basis, this process will be in the hands of the development committee and our committee will lose its competence. many of you have been talking about human rights, but they are in afet's portfolio. i would also like to point out that i have been informed that the dual legal basis is allegedly weakening the powers of the european parliament. this information is incorrect, as article 25 of the opinion of the ep's legal affairs committee states very clearly that if there is a dual procedure, namely articles 179 and 181a, the co-decision procedure, namely codecision, which gives parliament the greatest powers, applies. with a single legal basis consisting of only article 179, programmes such as erasmus mondus or other school exchange programmes or student scholarships are in danger of disappearing. article 179 is not able to cover the broad scope of development and economic cooperation, for example it cannot cover sectoral cooperation in some areas such as transport and energy. not all types of cooperation can be subsumed under the term development cooperation. moreover, article 179 only applies to developing countries, with the eu not having its own definition of developing countries but borrowing it from the oecd. article 181a, on the other hand, refers to third countries and is therefore less restrictive in its definition. if article 181 were to be deleted, some countries would simply drop out. if we adopt this directive with a single legal basis, colleagues, it means that article 181 is no longer justified in the treaties and we have thus signed a blank cheque to the commission.
the classic said, "if you can't change things on principle, at least take a principled stand on them". i expect that many opinions of principle will be expressed on the draft 2007 budget during the approval process. on 3 may the european commission adopted the preliminary draft budget of the union for 2007. it has thus taken the first step towards establishing a budget in the first year of a seven-year, but hopefully not a seven-year, financial framework limited to the years 2007 to 2013. if the commissioner for the budget has described the proposed budget as minimalistic, she must be agreed. on the other hand, it is difficult to accept that this budget will make a major contribution to promoting european economic competitiveness. it's more like a budget close to the standard budget. however, the hard-won compromise on the budgetary ceiling of the financial framework for 2007 to 2013 does not leave much room for manoeuvre for the commission. this is also reflected in the overall increase in payments compared to 2006. the overall increase in payments of 3,9% is rather very slight. taking into account the expected inflation rate of around 2% in 2007, the real increase in resources to cover european policy needs is 1.9%, compared to 2006. and that is the union will be enlarged in january 2007 by 30 million citizens of bulgaria and romania. there are changes in the structure of the budget which i regard as positive trends. expenditure on natural resources and agriculture is growing by only 1.2%, while funds for competitiveness and cohesion policy for growth and jobs are increasing by over 12%. the key issue, however, will be the efficiency of the use of these funds. the transfer of knowledge in the economy should be supported by additional resources allocated to competitiveness and innovation programmes, the development of trans-european networks and lifelong learning. the new element is a €500 million globalisation fund to provide assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of industrial restructuring. but again, the question will be how efficiently these resources are used. we can certainly discuss whether in the draft budget it is possible to add some resources and to reduce some. however, the commission's proposal set a rather strict, but not unrealistic, bar. it will be difficult for the european council to push this budgetary bar down a little bit and for the european parliament to push it up a little bit. the 2007 budgetary anabase will therefore probably take place very close to this threshold.
mr verhofstadt, that was a great performance. if i were a figure skating referee, i'd say, very good artistic impression. it's worse with technical stuffing. you asked and raised the question why the citizens of europe do not trust the european union. i will say this for the slovak republic and the new member states: we had to meet a cruel condition for our full membership. two years we've been full members, look how the ideals of the european union are being fulfilled. limited free movement, transitional periods limiting employment opportunities, no services directive adopted, insufficient and full access to health services, etc. how could one of the founding states, france, not support the constitutional treaty when strasbourg is the seat of the european parliament, when former president valéry giscard d'estaing presided over the convention which drew up the constitutional treaty? these are all questions where citizens see the duplicity of our thoughts and fulfillments. have you considered the real situation in the implementation of the lisbon strategy? prime minister, please wake up! we're halfway through this period when we should have had results. it's too late to say what we didn't do. at least say in the final word what needs to be done, what needs to be done tomorrow, what needs to be done in a month.
as i am not from lithuania, i would like to comment on the problem of lithuania's entry into the euro area in the context of the report under discussion. lithuania has been achieving favourable economic performance for several years, which would be exceeded by the vast majority of euro area countries. lithuania has been experiencing massive economic growth of close to 10% of gdp for a long time. in the long run, it respects the maastricht criteria for government budget deficits and general government debt, as well as the level of longterm interest rates, with considerable reservations, unlike several euro area countries. in the one criterion, despite its long-term compliance, lithuania exceeded the reference level of 2,6% by one tenth of a percentage point in the last period under assessment. my friends, joining the euro zone should not be like an athletic race where one tenth can decide the procedure or the expression. postponing lithuania's entry into the eurozone is a non-sensitive decision. it'll be a cold shower for the other candidates.
for the ppe-de group. it is difficult to write a balanced, unbiased report on roma issues and roma women. the author of the report succeeded, and i congratulate her sincerely. the report addresses the serious problem of the situation of roma women. it should be recalled that the current estimate of the number of roma in the eu is between 7 and 9 million, and that this figure will increase by between 2 and 3.2 million after the accession of romania and bulgaria, according to undp estimates. this already means one medium-sized eu country. the discrimination which is evident in this case creates a very complex social and cultural phenomenon where cause and effect are very difficult to identify, if they can be distinguished at all. the solution to this problem, which is a serious and growing problem for europe as a whole, will probably be found through education, employability and employment and through changes in living conditions. given that a satisfactory solution is beyond the capabilities of any one country, taking into account also the free movement of persons within the eu, the european commission should, in my view, continue with a specific, financially supported but appropriately controlled and more effective programme to address the situation of roma and especially roma women, including the use of the open method of coordination to disseminate good practice. on the other hand, what mrs ferrero-waldner says is true. there is anti-discrimination legislation in the eu, but in my view the commission should require far more rigorous compliance with these directives, because there is a clear violation of these directives in the case of roma, whether it is direct or indirect discrimination.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i'd like to thank mrs. de keyser for her excellent cooperation. but ms keyser's report on the role of women in armed conflict goes beyond the stereotypes that are considered dominant in public opinion on this subject. the fact is that in armed conflicts, women are overwhelmingly passive victims and often victims. they are more vulnerable, they are the ones who protect the children, and they are also the ones who are often the victims of violence. but the situation is changing rapidly and significantly, and women are now part of the armed forces, they are present in peacekeeping forces, but they are also on the side of the perpetrators of violence, as this report highlights. the rapporteur clearly sees that women are neither better nor worse than men, nor do they necessarily have a greater role to play in the creation of peace and democracy than men. of course, they usually have less of an opportunity to do that. the positive aspect of the report is that it avoids the simplification that is offered at first sight, since it is indisputable that women have a different attitude to the value of life because of their biological nature. the report looks at european values and what women can do to prevent conflict and restore peace. it not only highlights the fact that the role of women has changed, but also - and i want to emphasize this in particular - that mass rape has become a tool of war, and i can only support the proposal that mass rape be treated as a war crime and be effectively punished. and as a result, perhaps, we could reduce this kind of violence that is so utterly inhuman and degrading, that it is perhaps only comparable to genocide. experience shows that after armed conflict ends, high levels of violence persist, and are directed against the weak, women, children and the elderly. so the need for more women in peacemaking, in diplomacy, in law enforcement units, to give victims the attention and help they need, and perhaps ultimately to reduce the number of victims, cannot be underestimated. thank you again to the rapporteur for her excellent report.
let me also express my deep concern at the efforts of the new dutch political party, tolerance, freedom and diversity, to legalise zoophilia and paedophilia in its platform. i would like to join the majority of the dutch public in their criticism of this initiative and call on the dutch government, the european parliament and other relevant european institutions, including interpol, to take all necessary measures to eliminate the preparation of such criminal activities against children and young people. these disgusting, perverse, criminal schemes, which are far beyond the bounds of human nature and dignity, must not be tolerated in the slightest and must be clearly outlawed. the human rights that we so gladly invoke in other cases are seriously threatened in this case of child abuse.
last week, dangerous river floods hit eastern slovakia on the banks of some rivers. they have been very relevant to our region in recent years. these are flash floods caused by heavy rainfall in a certain location, in this case in the area of eastern slovakia. the european union is trying to help with the consequences of floods and other disasters with the solidarity fund. however, the lowest possible threshold is around 0,6% of the gdp of the affected country or eur 3 billion, which in many cases is too high a threshold despite the significant extent of the damage caused. i therefore advocate a reassessment of this limit in the sense of a reduction. floods are a phenomenon that must be prevented, and i am pleased that we are discussing at this meeting the report on the assessment of floods and flood management, which sheds new light on how to deal with the consequences of this global problem, especially at the level of prevention.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, forced prostitution is now an integral part of the sex industry on a global level. that is why we have decided to question the european commission again by asking the oral question which was forwarded to you. i would also like to emphasize three aspects. the first argument is semantic. to speak of forced prostitution is an understatement. this formula suggests voluntary prostitution by women who would like to be exploited and sell their bodies. but the words hide the reality. even if decriminalized, forced prostitution remains a crime against women and against all humanity. forced prostitution deserves to be openly condemned. mr blatter, the president of fifa, did not understand this, nor did other influential men and women. why did they not support the condemnation of forced prostitution at the football world cup? i would like to emphasize, however, the excellent cooperation shown by the members of the committee on women's rights. crossing political divides, our collegial collaboration has been driven by the deeply human intuition that no woman can be exploited. i would like to emphasize that we had sent a visible signal together during the demonstrations on 8 march, with the "red card against forced prostitution" action. i call on all of you, commissioners, representatives of the council and members of the european parliament, to draw up a red card against all those who promote forced prostitution by their silence, by their lack of action or by their direct or indirect involvement. secondly, since trafficking in women, like the sex industry, is a global phenomenon, we must fight it on a global scale. i would like to emphasize the remarkable work done by our elder sister, the council of europe, which is setting an example for us. the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings was adopted by the committee of ministers on 3 may 2005. all governments should sign and ratify this convention. women forced into prostitution will be victorious when the member states and the institutions of the european union cooperate effectively with the council of europe. thirdly, our oral question also calls for more resources to be devoted to the establishment of equality for all, while preserving the respective roles of men and women so as not to create a gap between them. but who speaks of the man, who is a customer, consumer, solicitor of prostitution? we cannot fight forced prostitution and trafficking in women without understanding the relationship between the prostitute and the client, without asking questions about the demand for prostitution, without analysing the motives of men. in truth, the prostitution of poor women would be impossible without the rich men. the fight against prostitution requires more than a social or criminal condemnation of the clients, because paying a prostitute is part of the dominant culture and enjoys almost universal acceptance, hypocritical and complacent tolerance. the phenomenon of forced prostitution, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, sheds light on a fundamental aspect which is very close to my heart as a woman who stands in solidarity with women forced into prostitution, but also as the chairwoman of the committee responsible for this parliament. respect for otherness will not be achieved until men are convinced that the improvement of the condition of women leads to an improvement in the welfare of society as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is well known that in germany prostitution is legalized and regulated by law. however, experience shows that legal prostitution is not an obstacle to trafficking in victims of forced prostitution. according to expert estimates, between 30 000 and 40 000 prostitutes are expected to attend the world cup and there are legitimate concerns that many of them will be victims of human trafficking, as has been reported on several occasions, victims of modern slavery. the question to the commission is therefore of particular relevance: what has been done to apply the human rights-based, victim-oriented approach to trafficking enshrined in international conventions, whether the un or the council of europe and its protocols? according to the unequivocal opinion of europol, the only source of reliable information is the testimony of the victims. commissioner, i would like to know whether the german authorities will not treat the victims as illegal immigrants, that is, whether they will not deport them instead of, on the one hand, giving them the protection to which they are entitled as victims under international law, but on the other hand, preventing the detection of those who traffic in human beings, while making billions in profits. commissioner, i am very pleased that you have stressed the importance of demand. it is well known that without demand, this business would not flourish. i firmly believe that your attitude will help to break down the barrier of general tolerance of demand.
ladies and gentlemen, i also thank mrs christi klaß for her report, because i share her view that the existing legislation on groundwater protection does not clearly set out qualitative and quantitative parameters. we are all aware that the quality of water in many parts of the european union is poor. i think it's important to focus on prevention, but in addition we have to focus on cleaning up groundwater sources if they've been polluted. i think that member states have been given too much leeway to set values for assessing good water status. experience shows that enforcing member states' obligations, especially on environmental policy, is often lengthy and often involves proceedings before the european court of justice. as groundwater knows no borders, it would be more efficient for member states to have a single standard for qualifying the chemical status and quality of water in general, rather than each state having its own standards. as groundwater moves slowly in the subsurface and underground layers of the earth, the impact of human activities on groundwater quality is significant. inefficient landfilling, illegal dumping of often very hazardous waste, industrial activities, agricultural activities and unconstructed sewerage systems all threaten the quality of groundwater and, consequently, the health of the population. the simplest solution is to adopt binding european legislation by setting groundwater quality standards. at the same time, however, the implementation of this legislation would need to be monitored by effective monitoring by the european environment agency. in slovakia, too, there are major problems with the supply of drinking water to the population. about half of the territory is supplied by groundwater sources, but the rest by surface drinking water. however, this is where the pollution is most pronounced, since this is the area where the sewer system is not in place. with no or no sewage system in some parts of slovakia, especially in the east, it is possible to say that citizens drink water that has been polluted. this polluted water is the source of a high incidence of gastrointestinal and infectious diseases. money that could be better spent on building a sewer system is actually spent on expensive treatment and vaccinations.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. i consider the proposed proposals for the seventh framework programme to be well formulated. as a farmer, i am pleased to note that, in comparison with the sixth framework programme, much more attention is paid to the wider societal impact of agriculture in this programme. however, i would like to draw attention to the unfavourable situation regarding the participation of the new member states in the fifth and sixth framework programmes. if we look at the map of the participants in the sixth framework programme's networks of excellence, we see nothing but white spots in the east. this is not the way we envisage a united europe. ongoing analyses also show that, relative to the size of the new member states, they should receive three times as many projects and perhaps ten times as much funding. the commission and the governments concerned therefore have an urgent task to promote greater involvement of the new member states through specific instruments in the work plans of the technical sections and the challenges of the framework programme.
first of all, let me thank mr buzek for the really excellent work he has done on this report. i personally believe that, despite the reduced budget, the seventh framework programme has the potential to significantly strengthen the research potential in all the member states of the european union without diminishing the importance of the principle of excellence. the european union's economy is in a position where it cannot afford to neglect research potential which is not concentrated only in large research centres, but which represents a sufficient critical mass to achieve parameters of excellence. many regional universities, corporate research units and technology centres generate considerable research potential in the form of young researchers, who often seek opportunities outside the european union. the main challenge to developing this potential is the lack of r&d infrastructure, which is a prerequisite for training and retaining scientists and researchers in these remote regions. on the other hand, not all large research centres automatically represent a level of excellence. we should not confuse the principle of excellence with the centralisation of research in large research centres. better use of research potential across the european research area can, on the one hand, enhance mutual cooperation, and, on the other hand, create the conditions for much-needed internal competition between each other, which can significantly help to increase the competitiveness of european research at global level. i therefore believe that a financial contribution to the improvement of research infrastructure from the resources of the seventh framework programme and the structural funds in the so-called cohesion regions with good research potential will be an effective investment and will create a sufficient synergy effect to meet the lisbon objectives. and in conclusion, very clearly: the european union should not fund embryonic stem cell research. many reasonable reasons in support of this higher principle have already been mentioned in the course of this discussion.
i would like to start by congratulating mr buzek on his excellent work in helping to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i agree with the rapporteur that science and research are a multiplier for economic growth and that there is therefore a need to involve the business sector more in research. i welcome the commission's proposal to more than double the eu's research budget in the next financial period, to improve the regulatory and administrative environment, in particular through the transparency of the evaluation process and the minimisation of project preparation costs. we need new technologies in the environment, in transport, in energy. research must also advance in health, with priority given to cardiovascular and infectious diseases, transplantation and new medicines. however, i do not agree with the original proposal on the funding of research which is prohibited in some member states and which is contrary to the protection of human life and dignity from conception to natural death. i mean, for example, destructive research on live human embryos, the harvesting of female oocytes for research purposes. i am convinced that the 7th framework programme can provide better conditions for scientists, university students and extend their cooperation with high-quality professional teams. this will also speed up the resolution of many scientific problems that affect the quality of life of eu citizens.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in the last 8 years, the inhabitants of the slovak republic have been regularly threatened by floods. for slovakia, the so-called river floods on large river flows are dangerous, but for many regions, especially for the region of eastern slovakia, flash floods are current, as we experienced last week, caused by intense rainfall in a certain location. the main causes of flooding are natural phenomena and, ultimately, climate change. the damage levels caused by flash floods are largely influenced by human activities such as upstream deforestation, inadequate drainage practices and, in particular, extensive construction in high-risk flood zones. i very much appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur of the directive, the european commission, to produce and complete flood maps and indicative maps of flood damage. coordinated planning, action in the river basins and sub-basins of the member states of the european union will ensure that the interests of all the partners involved are duly taken into account, as well as the best use of resources. cooperation at community level represents a significant added value and an improvement in the overall level of flood protection. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, influenza is one of the diseases with serious health, social, economic, but also defence and political consequences. mutations in the h5n1 avian influenza virus could lead to a new subtype of influenza virus transmitted from human to human with a progressive spread to epidemics and pandemics. transmission of avian influenza virus from birds to humans is rare, but according to the world health organisation, 185 cases of infection and 104 deaths were recorded between 2003 and march 2006. the number of these human victims should be considered a crystal ball that cannot be ignored. public debate in this area has revealed new problems, with pandemic committees and pandemic plans linked at european level being established in the member states. member countries communicate with each other because no country can cope with a pandemic flu outbreak on its own. an interest in antivirals as the first pillar of medical prevention and intervention has increased. the approach to vaccine production has been modernised, and there has been renewed interest in accelerating vaccine development, production and deployment. ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report is based on two communication materials from the european commission on this subject. it emphasises the adoption of the necessary measures and a crisis management plan within 24 hours, including quarantine or the implementation of travel restrictions. calls for better coordination between the european commission, the member states and the relevant european agencies. i see the key action as the creation of a stockpile of antivirals and, where possible, the accelerated production and distribution of vaccines. the solidarity fund could be used for the application of vaccines. being informed is an absolute prerequisite for taking responsible action. it is important that members of the european parliament are kept informed at regular intervals of scientific developments in the field of medicines and vaccines and of the level of preparedness of individual member states. we must not forget to communicate the situation and the necessary steps to the public and the media as quickly as possible.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the fight against discrimination must be fought every day, as is clear not only from the report of mrs ždanoka, but also from the debate here. i would like to highlight one aspect of the report: the protection of the rights of national minorities. in both the old and the new member states, the situation of national and ethnic minorities is rarely problem-free and they are often subject to direct and indirect discrimination. it is clear that the prohibition of discrimination in this matter is not enough. the creation of equal opportunities also requires positive measures, in particular to combat indirect discrimination. i am convinced that the commission could encourage those member states whose legislative environment does not allow them to change this situation. new legal instruments are also needed, as mrs ždanoka emphasises, to put an end to the unacceptable policy of double standards. while the accession countries are subject to the copenhagen criteria for respecting minority rights, they do not have any national legislation. i think this situation is really untenable.
the irregularities in the management of the european union, expressed in hundreds of millions to billions of euros, mentioned in mr herbert bösch's report, are not a pleasant finding for us. i would remind you that the report covers 2004, so the irregularities in the new member states represent only a marginal part of the total. the more of a challenge it should be for us. if the old member states with long experience are not able to work with the public resources of the european union in a completely transparent way, we can undoubtedly expect similar results for the new member states. the figures on the quantity and value of contraband cigarettes and counterfeit brand products are particularly worrying, with the result that the community is suffering major financial losses. one of the most sensitive borders in this respect is the eastern border of the european union, namely the border between slovakia and poland with ukraine and poland with belarus. i therefore call for increased attention to be paid to the protection of this territory and the prevention of smuggling. at the same time, i would point out that these areas are also the poorest regions of the european union and that the extent of smuggling is directly linked to their economic situation. ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a huge increase in damage and irregularities in the area of the structural funds over the period under review. in 2004, this was up by 44% on 2003 and amounted to almost eur 700 million. it's a warning and a challenge. the challenge is to take effective action against the member states concerned on the one hand and to find systemic solutions to protect the community's financial interests against fraud and other illegal activities on the other.
ladies and gentlemen, i express my deep disappointment at the european parliament's attitude to ethical issues. i particularly object to the funding of research on living human embryos for reproductive purposes and research of a kind which is prohibited in some member states and which is contrary to the protection of the dignity and life of the human being from conception to natural death. despite this, i voted for the buzek report on the seventh framework programme because i am aware of its importance for the future of europe and its ambition to become the most competitive economy. i see this programme as the 'chef' of the lisbon strategy and it is my hope that the funding for science and research will help europe to retain the scientific minds that will produce high-quality projects to improve the quality of life of european union citizens in the fields of environment, transport, energy and health. as an example, i can mention slovakia, which is also interested in building a proton therapy complex for a cyclotron centre in the slovak republic, using the seventh framework programme, for the treatment of oncological diseases by means of deep proton therapy, which is a much gentler treatment for patients than conventional radiotherapy. this cutting-edge technology provides highly effective treatment to more than 40,000 patients to date.
in writing. i respect my slovak national legislation, the will of my constituents and my personal conscience. that is why i did not support the legislative resolution. respect for human life and respect for the integrity of women are sacred. it is irresponsible for the rdp to fund projects which exploit women's eggs or destroy human embryos. the rcp is financing research that is banned in several member states, including my own, slovakia, with slovak taxpayers' money. is it not a lie to claim that the european union, and the commission in particular, respects the diversity and sovereignty of the member states when it is about to finance illegal projects? why throw taxpayers' money out the window for a search without a solution when the community budget cannot meet the demands of life? that is why the juri committee and my femm committee have called for a ban on funding or co-financing research which is considered illegal by the member states or which involves the destruction of human embryos, human cloning, the exploitation of women to obtain their eggs, the manipulation of germ lines for eugenic purposes or the creation of hybrid cells such as chimeras.
in writing. any form of human violence must be denounced. the inalienable right to life, the right to liberty and security, and respect for the dignity of all human beings. national laws guarantee these rights. mixing the records of speeches about homosexuals and racism discredits the defense of human rights. punishing offenders is the responsibility of each member state and falls within the scope of the council of europe's european convention on human rights, which all eu member states have signed, making them accountable to the european court of human rights in strasbourg. is a new form of totalitarianism against democratically elected governments emerging? extremism is on the rise on both the left and the right, as the established parties create amalgamations and thus lack credibility and political vision acceptable to families in the member states. the rejection of manipulation and disinformation as expressed in this resolution is a fight against the emergence of extremism and violence, a refusal to foment hatred against the social groups referred to in the resolution. that is why my group has decided not to support the latter.
ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and tomorrow we will be adopting the well-prepared reports on the structural funds for the years 2007 to 2013. as a citizen of slovakia, a new member country of the european union, i am aware of the enormous importance of this structural aid from economically strong member states to the new member states. we sincerely appreciate this assistance from the slovak republic, we are grateful for it and we feel obliged. i would particularly like to acknowledge the fact that the agreement between the european parliament and the council supports the proposals of the new member states in the so-called n+3 measures on vat and housing. this is a good and very necessary solution, since all the members from the new member states voted in favour of these proposals at the first reading in this parliament. for this reason, the report by the greens - the general cohesion fund regulation - is a document that we can do without and i do not recommend that we approve it.
in the first place, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs del castillo, for her report, which covers the whole range of research and innovation development issues and offers enough impetus to improve the current situation. in my contribution, i want to highlight a very important aspect of implementation structures which may have a significant impact on the future success of european support programmes for research, development and innovation, such as the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme. the success rate of these programmes, on which we rely, will depend on how close we get these programmes to their target groups, in particular to smes, universities, research centres and so on. as far as i am aware, the european commission, and in particular the enterprise dg, is working on a new, more efficient model of business support networks, euro info centres and innovation relay centres, with a view to reducing the administrative burden, and is considering restructuring these networks by creating nuts i or nuts ii consortia. i think these steps by the european commission towards greater efficiency - cutting red tape - are very right. on the other hand, i would like to ask you, commissioner, to take account of the need for the closest possible links between businesses, research institutes and universities on the one hand and intermediary institutions on the other. the nuts ii regional level for the creation of consortia is the minimum level for sufficient geographical coverage of the necessary comprehensive services in relation to the successful implementation of our european policy in the area. the decision to use nuts i, or rather the central level, might reduce the administrative burden on the european commission, but it would certainly not reduce red tape at national level and, on the contrary, would reduce the opportunity for targeted entities to access the support programmes in question flexibly, especially in remote regions. the complexity and quality of support services should be an equally important aspect in the creation of the consortia under consideration. the creation of consortia on the basis of a common network of euro info centres and innovation relay centres is in favour of conditions of complexity and flexibility in the provision of services, thus fulfilling their original mission and achieving the necessary synergy.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the european commission. innovation, research and economic growth as a whole represent the greatest challenge for the european union. i therefore appreciate the rapporteur's optimism and her commitment to continuously seeking ways of achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, also in this own-initiative report. if europe is to compete with the us and japan, which are leaders in the use of information and communication technologies, it must create high credit for scientific careers, incentives, attractive conditions and awards that inspire students to start research at university. the emphasis is on member states to stimulate investment in research and innovation and to facilitate and expand public-private partnerships, in particular with universities. the key to a successful europe is viable smes, which account for 65% of european gdp. they are the ones most in need of support in the field of innovation and research, as the development of services and markets based on new technologies depends on their innovative capacity. a prerequisite for the establishment of a framework for a good business environment is a sufficient amount of resources from the budget of the european union. for example, promoting the use of risk capital is an opportunity to accumulate financial resources to support creative ideas to ensure the competitiveness of a company from the very beginning of its business activity. we must not forget the formation of an entrepreneurial spirit from an early age, which pays homage to innovation and increases demand for innovative goods and services among citizens. it is essential to make research and innovation information available to the wider business community, and information centres should therefore be developed and supported also at regional level. these can contribute to deepening cooperation across national borders as well as in cross-border cooperation. in conclusion, let me just say that 2010 is approaching by leaps and bounds, so it is clear that the european union must put the objectives of the lisbon strategy into practice as quickly as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. i very much welcomed the fact that the european parliament decided to set up a temporary committee to investigate the alleged abduction of prisoners and violations of their human rights. i got involved in this work with great enthusiasm and interest. i have attended the vast majority of the meetings of this committee so far. i've listened with interest to all the relevant guests invited. we don't have the ability to cross-examine witnesses under oath as we do in court, and our goal was to make sure that the cia was actually using illegal techniques in the fight against terrorism. the key was to believe that the detainees were tortured during interrogation and that they were transferred to third countries against their will. but i must say that the witnesses' testimony was very unconvincing, sometimes not even directly, sometimes it was more like a lawyer, a lawyer, sometimes it was a british diplomat, showing signs of ill-concealed anger at the british government for having fired him from the diplomatic service. senator marty didn't convince me either, and his answers were at the level of newspaper reports that could prove nothing but suspicion. i think he was very bold in denouncing the polish government, for example, even though the polish government has repeatedly denied that there are detention camps on its territory. as a member of parliament from a new country, i am primarily interested in the dimension of human rights, justice, and therefore i was wondering if there were any illegal installations on the territory of my country. so i was very pleased when the highest authorities, the government and the minister of justice, and the director of the secret service did not confirm to me that there were such camps in slovakia, or that secret cia flights to slovakia or over slovakia were being carried out. we in the european people's party are critical of the approach of a rapporteur who would like to see ready evidence behind suspicions. it is impossible to escape the impression that in the work of the committee, especially the left-wing meps (i will finish here) have confused the search for demonstrable truth with the slander of the united states, which is the main actor in the fight against terrorism. if the left does not accept realistic amendments which serve the truth in a fundamental way, i will consider whether i can support such a report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of the slovak republic, i would like to condemn and apologize for the recent attacks on citizens of minority nationalities, but at the same time i would like to emphasise that the government of the slovak republic is very thoroughly investigating all the incidents that have occurred on the territory of the slovak republic, the minister of the interior of the slovak republic has appeared before the parliamentary committee and presented the progress of these investigations, and i would also like to assure you that the government of the slovak republic in its programmatic statement very clearly declares and emphasises that it will respect, promote and extend all civil rights and the rights of national minorities.
the new government in slovakia has created a tense situation which is detrimental to the values of the union. there's physical violence, there's openly nationalist signs just because someone speaks hungarian. because he's of another nationality. prime minister robert fico only belatedly and inadequately distanced himself from xenophobia and anti-hungarian attacks. but the way he did it is shocking. he attacks, he judges politically, he seeks scapegoats. and you will find it in the legitimate representative of the hungarian voters in slovakia, the hungarian coalition party. what is the cause of this condition? our concerns have been confirmed. the decisive mistake was made when an extremist and primarily anti-hungarian party became a member of the government. that opened the floodgates and gave the intimidation credibility. what lesson can be drawn from this situation? the fact that the highest organs of the union should pay more attention to what is happening in our member states and, if necessary, react immediately, act, so that we can suppress the disorder and lawlessness in its infancy.
as i, like many of my colleagues, travel by air every week, i would like to express my gratitude to the british police and intelligence services, who, in cooperation with the intelligence services of other countries, uncovered an attempted terrorist attack on transatlantic flights in early august. these terrorist attacks would have devastating consequences for the lives of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of citizens. the revelation was shocking and inconvenienced passengers on other flights, which had to be cancelled for safety reasons. i would also like to thank the passengers and airport staff for their cooperation and disciplined behavior in the situation. i think we all understand and appreciate that in the end, this kind of discovery was made and the police subsequently apprehended and prosecuted the suspects today. it gives us a sense of security into the future that was shattered on september 11, 2001, and actually persists today.
let me first of all warmly welcome the delegation of women from lazio, italy, who are in the stands watching our debate. first, i want to recall the success we've achieved together. thanks to close and good cooperation between parliament and the commission, the two parts of the same community programme - the fight against violence against women and the fight against drugs - are now separated. this is how we emphasize the enormous importance of each of these two matches. i would like to thank commissioner frattini and his team and especially our rapporteur, mrs gröner, and all my colleagues on the cooperation committee for their excellent work. i'm proud of that. but daphne will lose its effectiveness if men do not actively participate in the programme, both men in the home and men involved in politics and society. in this respect, i appreciate the activities of the austrian and finnish presidencies, which speak openly about the role of men in gender equality policy. third, since 1946, dozens of documents have been accepted, and yet we still talk about rising violence. i hope that this document is not just another one of them, as administrative actions and funding of short-term and one-off campaigns against violence against women and children alone are not the solution to this problem. dealing with the consequences alone doesn't lead to success. we must focus on prevention, we must pay attention to systematic education in respect, in dignity of the human being. only this will bear fruit. the focus should be on treating the perpetrators as soon as they develop such tendencies, otherwise the funds spent on daphne will be ineffective or even useless. in conclusion, i would like to draw attention to the violence against children, which is also part of the daphne programme. as we are discussing this issue, in the netherlands, the pedophile party is promoting its program, which aims to legalize pedophilia and the sexual abuse of children, if they agree to it. almost everyone is silent about it. who knows why? unless our legal tools allow us to prohibit the abuse of minors in a democratic way and with the support of politicians, we will never win the fight against violence against women and girls.
in writing. by mistake and inadvertently, i pressed the wrong button on my voting machine. that is why i immediately corrected my final vote by roll-call on the legislative resolution by applying the procedure provided for that purpose. it is not possible to vote against a programme which combats violence against women and children and which promotes the dignity of all human beings. from the outset i fought for the commission's original proposal to be divided into two parts: 'drug/addiction' and 'violence against women'. we in the women's committee have every reason to be proud of our work and to welcome the good cooperation on such a fundamental subject.
the european commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of passenger cars is intended to respond to the wide disparities in the taxation of cars within eu member states and also to the environmental pollution caused by emissions from passenger cars. the european commission is proposing to abolish registration taxes on passenger cars and replace them with taxes linked to carbon dioxide emissions. however, in our country, slovakia, we do not apply registration tax or annual tax on the operation of passenger cars. the introduction of the new tax would thus lead to an increase in the tax burden of natural persons, and in addition, the combination of the carbon dioxide component in the calculation of the annual tax on the operation of a passenger car may not lead to the purchase of new cars with a lower environmental impact. ladies and gentlemen, since tax matters are the exclusive competence of the member states and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which i believe should also be respected in this case, and since the proposal would introduce a new tax in slovakia and thus increase the tax burden on citizens, i voted in favour of the proposal by abstaining.
mental health is not a new phenomenon, and it has been the subject of much discussion recently, especially in europe and the united states. i'm going to look at this problem from the perspective of the work environment, which is one of the causes of mental health deterioration. the drive to improve the economy and prosperity of our regions has resulted in a change in working conditions and pace. teleworking, increased use of communication technologies, changing work habits, increased mobility - all these affect workers' mental health. the demands on flexibility, education, skills of employees are increasing and especially middle-aged and older employees are not able to adapt to these changing conditions the stress that persists can result in mental problems. the economic consequences of the population's deteriorating mental health need to be seen in addition to the medical side of the problem. stress results in reduced participation in work, lower work performance, disinterest, or problems at work among colleagues. as public health issues are in the hands of the states and the european union has only limited powers, it is necessary to focus on the states with the greatest problems and least resources to remedy them. despite the high number of suicides in northern europe or the uk, i believe that in this case our attention should be focused mainly on the new member states. in the european union, five new member states are among the countries with the highest suicide rates. the countries of central and eastern europe, and among them slovakia, have undergone major changes and citizens have had to adapt to changing working conditions, habits and working habits, following the example of western europe. they had to cope with retraining and new more modern procedures extremely quickly, which had a negative impact mainly on middle-aged and older employees. moreover, citizens in these countries suffer from high unemployment, which also has an impact on mental health. there have been suggestions that to really tackle this problem, a new agency needs to be created. i don't agree with that view, and i see how much more effective it is to adapt existing agencies, including agencies that have a direct link to mental ill health.
almost 90% of the territory of the enlarged eu is agricultural land, home to nature reserves with rare fauna and flora and cultural monuments that constitute europe's cultural heritage. however, many policy solutions that concern rural areas do not sufficiently take account of their specific nature and real needs. the slovak countryside, which accounts for 85% of slovakia's territory and 48% of its population, is currently characterised by an outflow of young people, the extinction of rural areas, the threat to cultural heritage and, above all, a high unemployment rate. i consider this report to be highly topical, as it analyses the current situation and looks for solutions to support europe's rural and island regions. it also looks at the future of small traditional communities with a population of less than 1000. it focuses on supporting micro-enterprises, young farmers, traditional crafts and trades, local traditions and customs, which will help to guarantee the attractiveness and quality of rural life and job creation. cultural heritage needs more attention and, above all, more funding. the eu must adopt a comprehensive approach to cultural heritage, so that provisions to promote it are integrated into all policy areas. i welcome the initiative of 'european heritage days' and the exchange of experience in this field through international conferences. the ep's discussion of this report confirms that it is not indifferent to the sustainable development of europe's rural areas.
let me also express my criticism in the european parliament of the proposed postponement of the entry of new member states into the schengen area until 2009. the european commission's statement that the delay was due to technical problems in the creation and launch of the sis ii information database was received by citizens in a time of cosmic technological progress with surprise and at the same time with great disappointment. the schengen agreement is the visible and practical fulfilment of the free movement of persons and goods throughout the european union, and so far, unfortunately, it remains only a promise. i therefore consider it unfair that citizens from the new member states of the european union have to wait longer than the end of 2007 to travel without border checks. i call on the european commission to consider all options to respect the original deadline, or alternatively to temporarily connect new member states to the sis i plus information system currently in use, unless a new one is put into practice. the positive action taken by the european commission to meet the deadline will help to increase citizens' confidence in the european project as a whole.
i must set the record straight on the rumors and lies that have been spread here on september 5th as part of the anti-slovak campaign by hungarian mps. according to them, a woman in slovakia should have been beaten for making a phone call in hungarian. however, the investigation revealed that such an act never occurred. the accusation of insulting slogans at sporting events is also quite wrong, because the slogan "death to hungarians" was provocatively presented by a citizen of hungarian nationality. claims of damage to 800,000 roma are also untrue, with the number being exaggerated tenfold. i completely reject the claim that the government of the slovak republic supports the suppression of the rights of national minorities, because the facts say the exact opposite. put simply, the thief is shouting, catch the thief. unfortunately, the anti-czechoslovak exhibition organized in brussels by hungarian mps was also a manipulation of facts. i'm sorry to hear that.
at the last meeting, some colleagues described slovakia as a country of extremism and intolerance, where citizens of the hungarian minority are persecuted. they cited an alleged example of a brutal attack and portrayed the slovak government as an entity that supports the suppression of the rights of national minorities. they spoke rashly, without knowledge of the facts. the results of the police investigation showed that the incidents widely reported by the media and politicians either did not happen at all or had no national or ethnic motive. the slovak government has repeatedly declared and demonstrated that it will not tolerate manifestations of xenophobia, racism and intolerance and is prepared to take all necessary steps to prevent such acts. i would urge everyone to weigh their words. because lies and misunderstandings can cause unnecessary tension and passion, and that's something i hope no one wants. residents living in slovakia's ethnically mixed areas are often confused and don't understand the tensions some politicians and media are talking about.
i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their work on this important subject. it is a known fact that air pollution reduces the average life span of people by as much as nine months. more than half of europeans live in conditions where the daily concentration limit is up to 35 times the acceptable standard. in the european union, the situation is worst in benelux, northern italy, but also in the new member states. air pollution is the cause of many respiratory and other diseases. since citizens' health is a member state competence under article 152 of the treaty on european community and the european union therefore has only limited powers, ways must be found for the european union to intervene indirectly through other policies and achieve improvements in health. improving air quality is certainly one of these policies. however, if member states, and especially new member states for which european union law is still a new branch of law and which face considerable economic problems, are to implement the framework directive and four other legislative texts, three daughter directives and a council decision into their legal systems, it is clear that implementation will be difficult, error-prone and perhaps incomplete. it will therefore be very difficult for citizens to assess what the mandatory air quality standards are in the european union. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposed amendment simplifies existing legislation by up to 50%. the european union needs long-term objectives and rigorous control and monitoring of whether member states are correctly implementing these directives. on the other hand, the eu must also adopt standards that are transparent and pay attention to limiting emissions by pollutants. the targets we set ourselves in legislation, whether it is pm 10 or pm 2.5 or the date the directive takes effect, must be ambitious and realistic. otherwise, we would run the risk of member states not complying with them. in this context, it is important to remember that even the most precise action of the european union will be ineffective if there is no global cooperation, because then the polluted air will be imported to us and we will not be able to prevent it.
rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, requested for an opinion. i am pleased that the field of lifelong learning and training has recently moved from a marginal position to a centre of interest. one of the main impulses was the revision of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and the need to meet its objectives. an important step was taken in 2000 with the adoption of the education and training 2010 work programme, which aims not only to improve the quality and efficiency of education and training systems but also to ensure that they are accessible to all and to the widest possible extent. a concrete initiative of the work programme is the concept of a european qualifications framework under discussion today. i consider the concept to be a constructive initiative which should make a significant contribution to the transparency of the transfer and recognition of qualifications at european level. it should also stimulate national and sectoral reforms to promote lifelong learning and play a significant role in the field of student and staff mobility. in today's debate, i would like to highlight a new element that the european qualifications framework is introducing, namely the recognition of non-formal and informal learning. this will change the traditional approach to assessment based on the length of education or type of institution and will shift the emphasis to learning outcomes, knowledge, skills and abilities. allow me to thank my colleague thomas mann, rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, for his work on the report on the creation of the european qualifications framework, and the member of the european commission for education, language training and multilingualism, mr ján figeľ, and his team, who were present for the preparation of the concept. the good news is that the european commission, at its meeting on 5 september, endorsed a draft recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning. i hope that the european parliament will approve mr mann's report at this plenary session so that we can soon negotiate a new commission document on the european qualifications framework.
for the ppe-de group. i consider it an important role for the european union to adopt european legislation that ensures the improvement of the formal and informal rules of the business environment. human capital is an important part of it, and therefore the business associations consider the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications to be the most positive measure of the european union in this election period. another important step, which deserves particular attention, is the creation of a european qualifications framework, which should ensure the transparency of the education acquired, regardless of the system in which the qualification was acquired. i also highlight the new element of recognition of non-formal and informal education, such as the acquisition of professional experience. in this context, let me thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs mann, gaľ and zappal, for producing a consistent report. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation to simplify and clarify the eight-level reference scale, which is its essential element. i believe that, although the european qualifications framework is based on a voluntary basis, it will, together with the individual national qualifications frameworks, create a system that will help to tackle barriers to the labour market within the european union. i am confident that the business sector will also appreciate this initiative of the european commission, as the different national qualifications in europe will become more understandable and employers will be able to use the european qualifications framework as a reference tool for selecting high-quality employees on the basis of their education, skills and competences.
globalisation confronts us with more open markets, more competition and faster innovation, and requires greater flexibility and adaptability. for this reason, public services, as one of the components of the social model, must also be constantly adapted to the new conditions of globalisation, democratic changes and scientific progress. the european parliament approved the services directive at first reading, defining its scope. services of general economic interest have been included in the scope of the services directive. the proposal adopted does not include public services, health services or transport services. public services are historically given in the 25 countries of the european union and are based on widely differing regional traditions. i would therefore like to stress the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity unconditionally. according to this principle, each member state decides independently which services will be provided by public institutions and which sectors will be liberalised. in slovakia, local and regional authorities elected and controlled by citizens have proven themselves in the provision of services of general interest and are able to continue to guarantee rights relating to shared decision-making, consumer protection and the public good. competent public authorities must have at their disposal appropriate tools to enforce the application of competition and to ensure consumer protection. strengthening the control capabilities of member states is of great importance in order to ensure the effective implementation of public policy objectives such as affordable prices and quality standards. on the basis of these facts, i am convinced that there is no need to confer additional powers on the european union in the area of public services. i am of the firm opinion that there is no legal basis for the public service framework directive. in conclusion, let me thank mr rapkay for his work.
in writing. globalisation is putting the eu in front of ever new challenges that require every european citizen to constantly improve their knowledge, skills and broader skills in their personal, public and professional lives. the requirement to access key skills that form the basis for personal development, social inclusion, active citizenship and employment is dictated by the development of the knowledge society in the context of the lisbon process and is linked to the placement of the individual in the labour market. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report by helga trüpel on the commission's recommendation, which is a european reference tool for key skills and suggests how access to these skills for all european citizens can be ensured through lifelong learning. this document is an important contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and in particular to the implementation of the education and training 2010 work programme.
i am very pleased that there was a common consensus on both sides, on the part of the bulgarian and romanian governments and on the part of the european union, which was preceded by constructive negotiations on the conditions for the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. as a member of the european parliament representing slovakia, a country that joined the union only two years ago, i would like to express my pleasure at the fact that romania and bulgaria will become members of the european union as of 1 january 2007 and i fully support their accession. i also hope that no one in the union will regard these new member states as less valuable and that their already well-established economies and democratic structures will continue to develop in a healthy way. in the context of the often mentioned shortcomings of these acceding states, i would like to comment more specifically on the new romanian law banning intercountry adoptions. intercountry adoption is a global and ethical issue. the trafficking of children and the use of the pretext that it is in the best interests of these children is unworthy and unacceptable in the european union. a state that trades its future potential, its own citizens, is selling to international organized crime. such a state would have to reevaluate its priorities, not just on paper but in reality. he should give careful consideration to the means he will use to achieve these goals. selling children is a counterproductive waste of one's own potential and a degradation of the support of the family. romania a full member of the european union - should be able to take care of its citizens from birth to death, as the romanian prime minister put it last week. it is necessary to improve social work and to professionalize the staff providing adoption advice in romania, as well as to simplify adoption to national adoption. despite some well-known problems with the implementation of this law, i consider its adoption to be an excellent step forward. this law can certainly be classified as a standard of european legislation. romanian and bulgarian friends, welcome to our midst!
madam president, i would like to introduce a point of order at the beginning of our discussions on mrs breyer's report. my comment concerns the translation into the various official languages of the european union of the motion for a resolution on the prospects of women in international trade. indeed, i have worked with the slovak, english, german and french versions and there are a few paragraphs that are translated in a totally different way. i would be happy if the courtroom department could help me check the quality of the translations.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, commissioner, i thank our colleague hiltrud breyer for her motion for a resolution which was adopted unanimously in my committee. globalization and economic liberalization are not just for the happy. that is why i am asking the question of the place of the weakest in society and the means of promoting a solidarity economy. political and economic leaders must be creative in their efforts to ensure the full development of men and women and to promote the common public good without excessive government interference that would harm national economies. paragraphs 15 and 26 mention the ranking of the member states. it's provoking. however, since 1951 this has been included in the conventions of the international labour organisation signed by the member states of the european union. the paragraphs dealing with relations with third countries emphasize that women, as economic actors, must be recognized in all their activities of personal, family, educational and social development. the recognition of women's unpaid and informal work deserves greater attention in european policies. this resolution also reminds us that we must avoid at all costs any form of western neo-colonialism and respect the cultures of our economic partners, while ensuring the abolition of all forms of discrimination between men and women. i therefore encourage my group to support this resolution in the hope that soon political declarations on equality between men and women will finally be translated into economic life.
like all economic actors today, global trade affects the status of women in society. trade liberalisation has both positive and negative aspects. the benefits to women of trade liberalisation and overall globalisation include in particular new and often well-paid employment opportunities. employment empowers women, gives them self-confidence, improves their social status and makes them aware of their rights. however, in most cases they receive 20% and sometimes 50% less pay for the same work than men. however, trade liberalisation in most cases benefits only large firms. as women entrepreneurs are more likely to be seen at the helm of smaller or medium-sized firms, they can only benefit to a limited extent from market opening. what has the world trade organization done to move equality policy to the wto agenda? the answer is very little. according to the wto, trade is a neutral area, which assumes that trade and market liberalisation are gender neutral, meaning that they are not directly affected by gender equality policy. in this context, i believe that gender equality should be given greater attention by the wto in the future. interestingly, almost all wto member countries have signed the beijing platform for action. however, its implementation is more than formal. it is necessary to recognise the contribution of women in international trade, women and especially educated multilingual women generally have excellent communication and especially negotiation skills and have different managerial practices than men. while the participation of women in the private sector in trade is remarkable, it is necessary to increase the participation of women in international organisations such as the wto, the international monetary fund, the world bank and others dealing with trade and business so that women are involved not only in production but also in decision-making, not only at the lower levels but also in management and managerial positions.
let me thank the rapporteur, mr ransdorf, for his very succinct report, which points out both the shortcomings of the field of nanotechnology development and the enormous opportunities and promising prospects of this sector. the european commission's action plan sets out the basis for further support and calls on the member states to pay greater attention to this sector in the development of the knowledge economy. the fact that nanotechnologies are part of various technological disciplines and will have a significant positive impact on almost every kind of industry in the near future requires the implementation of the said action plan with a high degree of coordination but also of support. let me now point out some of the problems in this important area of research and development. i think that research and development on any scale in nanotechnology is in itself a condition of excellence. in many cases, this formal condition, together with a so-called critical mass of resources, blocks the participation of small university research innovation centres or innovative smes in national and european support programmes such as the seventh framework programme or the forthcoming competitiveness and innovation framework programme. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the need for greater cooperation between small and large actors in the field of research and development on the one hand, and the need to increase the internal competitive environment on the other. the other problem i want to highlight is funding. we continue to see a negative trend in available r & d investment, including in the field of nanotechnologies. it remains to be seen that we are far behind the usa in this area, despite the great scientific and innovative potential we have. beyond the seventh framework programme, risk capital, whose more effective institutionalisation through public-private partnerships is often underestimated, would certainly be a possible starting point, especially for smaller research and innovation projects. i think that the european commission, together with the european investment fund, could play a better coordinating role through the 'jeremiah' programme with concrete and clear recommendations for individual member states to create effective incentives from public resources, and therefore also from the structural funds.
it is a pity that the georgian-russian conflict is not on the agenda, the discussion of this extremely disturbing hostile tension. now would be a good time. things are happening in the caucasus that are shocking at first, but in reality are the natural consequences of a decade and a half of russian-georgian relations. the response and punishment following the exposure of the russian spy group indicates a state of war. it is unacceptable that the russian authorities are expelling georgian citizens from the country on the basis of ethnicity. we are facing a violation of human, civil and civil liberties. it is obvious that the russian federation cannot reconcile itself to the loss of its influence over the republic of georgia. it's hard to take, and it hurts your sense of power. the council, the commission and parliament have a great deal of responsibility. they should be more decisive than ever, negotiating with the russian side. first of all, we should define what territorial integrity of georgia means, because we currently interpret it differently. only peaceful means can be used to find a solution and prevent a renewed armed conflict in this region.
in june this year, the european commission transposed a proposal that envisages the abolition of part of the vineyard area in the european union. the losses and consequences of this move should be compensated by a package of direct agricultural payments of eur 2,4 billion. this represents almost 12% of the vineyard area, i.e. some 4 000 hectares, which are under the control of some one and a half million wine-growing entities. in the case of slovakia, such a move could eliminate wine production, which has experienced a qualitative shift in recent years and slovak wines are becoming more competitive on the european union market. the commission proposal also includes a ban on the use of sugar in the production of certain wines, which has a long tradition in my country, since the wines produced in slovakia have a higher acid content and are typical of that region. i am not opposed to reforming the european wine market, but i think we need other solutions.
today we remember the events of 50 years ago, the 1956 hungarian revolution, the revolution of the hungarian people that shook the supposedly rock-solid communist system. why did the hungarian people fight? for freedom and independence. we hungarians living on the border were watching with concern and anxiety the heroic struggle against the overwhelming power of the soviet power. after the defeat of the revolution, there were dark, cruel years and harsh reprisals. especially in transylvania, but also in slovakia, they have dealt with openly sympathetic to the revolution. we remember with deep emotion the sacrifices of the heroic freedom fighters whose struggle was not in vain. 34 years later, the inhumane system has collapsed and we can now be part of a european community based on democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedoms. the participants of the 1956 revolution, their heroic deaths, fought and sacrificed their lives for these values.
in recent days, the most pressing issue in the new member states has been the threat to our entry into the schengen area on the originally planned date of october 2007. the deadline is subject to the launch of the new schengen information system of the next generation sis2. for this reason, i consider the three legislative reports drawn up by the rapporteur, carlos coelho, to be very important. i would like to commend him for his work, his set of amendments to clarify the commission's proposal and, above all, for the effort he has made to secure consensus in the council at first reading. although these three legislative reports are more technical and do not deal with the much-debated deadline for the enlargement of the schengen area, it is precisely their smooth adoption and implementation that will determine the conditions under which the 2007 deadline can still be met. of course, the delay in the schengen system is associated with an increase in the cost of completing it for slovakia alone, the amount is currently around eur 6 million. therefore, we cannot accept any delay. in the hague programme of 5 november 2004, the european council called on the council, the european commission and the member states to take all available measures to enable border controls at the internal borders of the european union to be abolished as soon as possible. since that deadline is almost 2 years ago, citizens of the new member states do not understand why the european commission is only now pointing out the technical and legal problems in the introduction of sis2 in its explanation. in conclusion, i would like to call for agreement and for the adoption of this legislation in the european parliament at first reading, so that the union's bureaucracy does not cause the european union to lose its credibility in the eyes of its citizens.
the commission's communication on the demographic future of europe states that the working age population of the member states will decline dramatically over the next five decades. the decrease is estimated at 48 million. even on the optimistic assumption that europe will find the strength to sustain further demographic development and will also find the resources to develop labour productivity, europe will not be able to do without a massive influx of new migrants estimates say 40 million. this represents perhaps the most serious challenge facing the european union. the report before us, for which i thank mrs kratsa, shows that the position of migrant women plays a decisive role in this process. this group of women requires special attention not only because they are frequent victims of discrimination, but because they are key to the integration of the second and third generations, and their access to education is therefore crucial. against this background, the need and urgency to establish common procedures for the integration of migrants and to establish common procedures for migration policy are apparent. the differences in approaches between countries lead to unnecessary misunderstandings. the development of trafficking in human beings and smuggling of people also shows the urgency of a clear policy for the reception of legal migrants, transparency, the existence of clear rules and accessibility to the common labour market. the lack of legal options clearly trumps illegal activities, with illegal immigrants being the most exposed to all kinds of human rights violations, leaving them without the help they deserve as victims. however, in further reflection, it is essential to make a clear distinction between asylum policy and legal and illegal migration. confusing these terms is a source of further unnecessary misunderstandings.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here again in plenary to discuss a problem which affects both public health and the lives of women and families in our constituencies: breast cancer. in 2003, the committee on women's rights had already put a question on the same subject to the european commission. mr commissioner, it was your predecessor, mrs diamantopoulou, who took the first steps to respond to the european parliament's requests. today we ask you to report on the progress made. the committee on women's rights is concerned with reducing the mortality rate of women with breast cancer, improving their quality of life, and informing women and their associations, as well as their relatives, about the risk and treatment of breast cancer. in this debate we should also take into account the role of men. husbands, fathers, and their children are also affected by these female-specific diseases. i also think of the many parents who support their daughters who are affected by the disease. in the women's committee we are working on the various aspects of the disease in order to see a europe without breast cancer one day. i am glad that this matter has been of great interest to the committee on women's rights. i congratulate my colleagues on the excellent cooperation we have, which is really worth highlighting. breast cancer is a public health problem of importance to all women in the european union. every two minutes, a new cancer is diagnosed. every six minutes, a woman dies from it. this disease does not discriminate by race, religion, or culture. we have to be honest about all the reasons, without exception, that cause breast cancer. it would be useful to compare growth rates across member states in order to arrive at a conclusive strategy. all women should have easy access to quality early diagnosis and treatment, regardless of their background, social status or education. thousands of lives could be saved. this would be a genuinely positive example of discrimination: it is becoming essential to raise awareness of the risk of the disease in every woman and to increase the resources allocated to breast cancer prevention and screening in the member states. commissioners, you and i know from experience that medical instruments are too expensive for regional hospitals in the new member states. the medical industry is not willing to make a financial effort, they're too concerned with making a profit. i would ask you to consider seriously the possibility of financing breast cancer prevention through the structural funds. efforts by politicians, doctors and scientists to develop the network of synergies in all member states could help ensure equal access to screening and healthcare. only this close cooperation will make it possible to fight breast cancer beyond ideological divides and personal rivalries. (applause) i would like to thank
let me inform you about the results of the meeting of the largest and one of the oldest women's organizations in slovakia, the women's union of slovakia, on 20 october 2006. at this meeting, women addressed the intolerable situation in slovakia, but also in other european countries, associated with breast cancer. cancer is now a treatable disease if detected early. so you could say that this disease is preventable, and women are dying because of our ignorance. and that's why i'm standing here to inform you that on october 20th, an initiative called "don't let us die" was born, and so i'm calling on you -- politicians, doctors, patients, and the general public -- don't let your mothers, wives, partners, or daughters die today from a disease they don't have to die from. today, the european parliament sets standards for nature protection, european highways are being built, but investments in health are being forgotten. the european union is trying to compensate for differences in lifestyles between the different member states. it is doing well in many areas, but there are significant differences between member states in cancer curable statistics, including for example in breast cancer survival statistics. slovak women are 30 percent less likely to survive this type of cancer than many women in western europe. it's just a pity we can't effectively provide the preventive screenings that would increase the chance of survival. it is necessary to ensure that women can also go for preventive visits in the evening or at weekends, and at the same time to ensure that doctors and health workers are adequately remunerated for this extra work. i would argue that most women are aware and responsible, but they need to be given the proper conditions to see a doctor. but prevention is not free either, and it costs a lot of money, so we all have to put pressure on other problems not to take priority. when the budget is adopted, we must think about investing in prevention, not just in equipping hospitals or buying mammographs or ultrasounds, but above all in investing in the human factor so that we have enough workers who know how to operate these machines.
the draft budget of the european union submitted by the european council, on the commitment side, fully corresponds to the equity parameters of the approved long-term financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013. in particular, the share of resources devoted to competitiveness and cohesion in the areas of economic growth and employment, freedom, security, justice and civil society, and the european union's status as a global partner, has been significantly strengthened. in line with the long-term financial perspective, the share of expenditure on direct payments to agriculture decreased and, conversely, the share of expenditure on rural development increased. unfortunately, however, on the payments side, this positive trend is largely disappearing and melting away as a result of the council's efforts to reduce the volume of payment appropriations more significantly. this reflects the council's considerable reservations about the recipients' ability to draw on the budgeted expenditure. since the key to successful resource extraction lies in the hands of the council, i take this to mean that the council is reserved with itself. however, the european parliament's conviction regarding the successful and efficient use of resources is greater than the council's expectations. i will therefore personally support amendments which bring the parameters of payments closer to the long-term financial perspective.
energy security is one of the political priorities of the new financial perspective and the 2007 budget of the european union. it is part of the competitiveness and innovation programme and has a specific research programme under the seventh framework programme for science and research. our objective in this area is to transform an ambitious unsustainable fossil fuel-based energy system into a sustainable system based on diverse energy sources, to improve energy efficiency, security of supply, to prevent climate change, to increase the competitiveness of european businesses in the energy sector and thus in other sectors. the european union strategy and the european budget are important factors that can help address europeans' bleak prospects for sustainable, stable and affordable energy in the future. the 2007 budget, as the first year of the new programming period, is clearly of strategic importance. however, it should be stressed that resources are limited and their efficient use will be of paramount importance.
although there is no single definition of public-private partnership (ppp) that applies throughout the community, there are a large number of successful projects in the european union in the rail and passenger transport sectors, but also in the health and education systems. successful projects are a sufficient reason to bring this subject to the attention of the european parliament, and i therefore welcome the commission's communication on ppps, with the concrete proposals it has drawn up following the public consultation. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, barbara weiler, on her balanced report, which highlighted the need to ensure legal certainty in this area. as private companies provide their know-how to the public sector in ppps, i pointed out in my amendments, which were incorporated in the report, the need to create transparent mechanisms for private investors. they must be given guarantees that their legal and financial interests will be protected throughout the duration of the contract and that the conditions of the public procurement will be maintained throughout its duration. in particular, for new member states which, due to a lack of experience, are concerned about the use of ppps, the knowledge gained from successful projects will help to avoid repeated mistakes and practices that have failed in practice. i am convinced that ppp projects will only generate the capital required if the stakeholders in the member states of the european union are well informed and follow high-quality legislation and transparent community rules. they will help them build infrastructure that is lagging behind due to lack of funding. this form of cooperation can also aim at closing regional gaps and at the sustainable development of europe's poor regions.
any discrimination based on nationality between workers of the member states in respect of employment, remuneration and other conditions of work is prohibited as declared in the fundamental principles of the european union on the free movement of persons and services within the european union. but what is the reality? there are still transitional periods of closure of labour markets in some member states. the posting of workers directive is very closely linked to the services directive and despite intense and well-founded opposition from meps from the new member states, the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to amend the posting of workers directive. the european parliament omitted articles 24 and 25 of the proposed services directive in the internal market at first reading. we considered these articles to be key because the basic concepts of the posting of workers directive are interpreted differently in different member states and workers do not know their rights guaranteed by the directive. i regret to say that the commission's guidelines are also unable to provide solutions to the problems of businesses and workers in the member states as regards the inadequate application of the posting of workers directive in removing obstacles to the free movement of services and workers. i voted against the rapporteur's report because it did not incorporate the key amendments to ensure greater mobility in the labour market within the european union. i am afraid that these attitudes of the rapporteur would create unnecessary obstacles to the creation of new jobs and we would fail to make the internal market in services fully functional.
i would like to welcome and support the european parliament's opposition to the 2006 annual declaration on the eurozone. i would particularly like to highlight the passage which points out that the mechanism of the three best performing member states in terms of price stability, as well as the methods for calculating the inflation reference value, need to be examined in depth. the point is that differences in the inflation rates of the euro area member states do not reflect different approaches to their macroeconomic policies but are rather the result of structural factors. that premise, in my view, is doubly valid in relation to the new member states of the european union. the share of energy and raw material-intensive production in several of these countries is higher than in the euro area countries. a significant part of this production is sent to euro area countries directly or as part of final products, e.g. sheet metal for car bodies. for the structural reasons mentioned above, the new member states are more sensitive to movements in energy and raw material prices, but at the same time they create a buffer zone that cushions price impacts in the euro area. this problem is particularly acute in the slovak republic, for example. the current regime for assessing inflation criteria is therefore not appropriate and may reduce the chances of new member states joining the euro area in the longer term, despite compliance with all other criteria.
i also welcome this report on the presence and limitation of mercury in the environment. we all have to agree that if there is a substitute, then the mercury-containing measuring device must be removed from the environment. the mercury content of just one mercury thermometer is enough to contaminate fish in a 20-year-old lake. it should be noted that some medical devices also contain mercury, but there is no equivalent substitute yet, for example, pressure gauges, barometers or manometers. mercury sphygmomanometers used in the treatment of hypertension or arrhythmia do not yet have an equivalent replacement that would measure with the same accuracy, or the purchase of other alternative methods would be very costly. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that these medical devices should not be covered by the directive, as they will reduce the burden on the environment but will put the lives of patients at risk. however, the priority that we must focus on in this legislative proposal is to reduce the mercury content of municipal waste. it will probably be difficult, especially in the new member states, to require all households to replace thermometers used to measure body temperature, but we can limit this.
the directive we have on the table is only a fraction of the original text, since almost all areas have been dropped, including the main principle of the country of origin. we have excluded health and social services, services of general interest and any reference to temporary posting of workers. these will be dealt with sector by sector, separately. the only question is when and if it will happen. an empty directive cannot therefore do any harm, but it cannot help either. i would argue that the directive in question is completely unnecessary in its current form and does not address any issues. the principle of country of origin means that a bratislava trader can rely on slovak law when serving a customer in vienna. however, the host member state will require the application of its own legislation if this is in the interests of, for example, public policy, public security, health protection, the environment, etc. that wording, in the current version of the directive, leaves the application of the original principle to the discretion of the official. it has been proven that the old member states benefit from the cheap and high-quality workforce of the new ten, and our nurses, au pairs and it experts have proved their worth. however, they fear that a nurse practitioner would be too much competition and they are covering up.... (the president withdrew the floor)
we are now deciding the fate of one of the most important pieces of legislation with the european parliament's clear handwriting. together with the members from the new member states, from the depth of our political sincerity, we did not see the bolkenstein directive as a 'scarecrow', but as a clear opportunity for an enlarged european union. since the beginning of our work in the european parliament, we have been active participants in the heated debates, explaining the need for the liberalisation of the services market to create new jobs, to increase the dynamism of economic growth in the european union and to its ambition to become the most influential player in global competition. we tried to convince our colleagues that the polish plumber is not a threat, but a contribution to the european internal market. the european parliament has adopted a compromise that partly liberalises the market and continues to protect it in a number of areas. while not an ideal solution, one can be satisfied that the key rule from the epp-ed workshop - freedom to provide services - is a guarantee of a balance between social and liberal europe in terms of opening up the services sector, while ensuring functioning procedures for smes, high quality services and consumer protection. i commend the work of evelyn gebhardt, malcolm harbour and all the shadow rapporteurs and express my satisfaction that the commission and the council have recognised the compromise reached by the european parliament in sensitive areas. it is good news that the council's common position is close to the european parliament's position at first reading. ladies and gentlemen, with today's historic vote, the european parliament can become the architect of the european union's common market for services. i expect member states to take up this baton with equal responsibility and to implement the services directive into their national legislation in less than three years. i am convinced that the services directive will be a fitting gift for a jubilant european union.
i understand why mrs. gomes, as a former diplomat and a woman who has been in politics for many years, has brought up this topic. i congratulate her. i fully support the idea that women's equal and full participation in the political process and decision-making should fully reflect the true makeup of society. this participation is important for future generations and for the good functioning of democratic systems. there is no doubt that the equality of dignity and responsibility between men and women fully justifies the entry of women into public office. genuine promotion of women in politics requires that their value as mothers and role in the family, in relation to all other public functions and professions, be clearly recognised. moreover, these functions and professions must be closely interlinked if social and cultural development is to be truly and fully human. let's be honest with each other. women are always involved in life's difficult moments, as they are excellent peacemakers and mediators par excellence. we also have to do a lot to ensure that the conditions of women and mothers do not cause any discrimination in the world of politics. in the future, women will be increasingly involved in serious, current issues. in all areas, the strong social presence of women is proving to be a great rarity, as women oppose societies organized solely on the criteria of efficiency and productivity and insist that these systems be redefined in favour of their humanization. in conclusion, i would like to encourage all women involved in politics to become the spokespersons of a new feminism, one that, without falling into the temptation of emulating the models of our male colleagues, recognizes and expresses the true female talent in all aspects of society. talent to overcome any discrimination within the public administration and political parties.
the reporter. human trafficking is now unequivocally described as the greatest disgrace of our time, the most serious violation of human rights and at the same time the most dangerous criminal activity, the third most lucrative business after arms and drugs, with a turnover of billions of euros and dollars. just today, the holy see issued a statement saying that human trafficking is worse than slavery. experts estimate that about a hundred thousand people are trafficked within the european union each year. the latest results of unicef research show that two thirds of member countries are both countries of origin and destination. the idea that it's not our business is not going to hold. there is no reason to believe that these are just a few thousand prostitutes whose fates are very often extremely dramatic. however, there are also new trends that are reflected in the growing number of people trafficked for forced labour, services, trafficking of children for begging, small-scale illegal activity, but also for illegal adoptions and forced marriages. according to a report by the council of europe, there is also evidence of human organ trafficking in european countries. although the vast majority of victims are women, there are alarming figures that children account for as much as 40 to 50% of the victims. the report aims to map the issue of trafficking in human beings as a whole. this report is not about human trafficking, and it's not about prostitution as such. the report is on trafficking in human beings, where early identification of the victim is of paramount importance. without this, the victim can easily become a person accused of illegal migration or a person who is carrying out illegal activity himself, and before he can be helpful in uncovering a well-organized network of criminals, he is expelled from the country, with a high probability of becoming their victim again. in this context, the importance of the european union's plan, best practices, standards and working methods to combat trafficking in human beings, which are widely regarded as a significant step forward in the fight against trafficking in human beings, should be highlighted. i would like to highlight four areas of concern in this report. first, despite the fact that this is a particularly serious offence, the situation in the member states as regards legislation and law enforcement is far from satisfactory. five member states have not yet ratified the un convention against transnational organized crime and its additional protocol, the palermo protocol, on the prevention, suppression and punishment of trafficking in human beings, especially women and children. as many as ten member countries have not acceded to the optional protocol to the un convention on the rights of the child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings has so far been ratified by only one country, with seven member states not yet having signed it. there are also problems in the implementation of commitments. in one member state, the criminal act of trafficking can be punished by a financial fine, in another, those who traffic children for the purpose of begging cannot be prosecuted, since begging itself is not a criminal offence, and in other countries, legal persons are not held liable for the crimes committed. enforcement is also problematic in cases where member states have all the means at their disposal, such as in the field of labour law, where labour inspectorates exist, and yet trafficking in human beings also occurs in these countries. secondly, we have no shortage of problems in the area of prevention. i would like to mention here the shocking finding of a recent unicef report that up to 30% of children worldwide remain unregistered each year. these children, along with children on the streets, are easy targets for perpetrators. third, protecting victims is not just a humanitarian task. europol's experience is convincing in that without it it is not possible to count on effectively uncovering a well-organised network of perpetrators and intermediaries. instead of protecting the victim, the easier path - criminalisation - is quite often chosen. fourthly, it is clear that an effective fight against trafficking requires deepening cooperation between member states and europol, eurojust, frontex, unicef and other international organisations, including non-governmental organisations. a uniform methodology for identifying victims and defining the crime itself would make a significant contribution to understanding new trends and the depth and scope of the problem. until then, we can only work with estimates, which experts agree are all illusory. by then, even criminals will always be a few steps ahead of law enforcement. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues who have contributed their suggestions to enrich the report and to express my agreement with the view expressed some time ago by helga konrad, former osce special representative on combating trafficking in human beings. the problem of trade is at a crossroads, we know enough about it, it's questionable whether we want to act. many of us feel that the time has come for decisive action to be taken against this particularly serious, dangerous and shameful crime.
i welcome this important report and allow me to thank mrs edith bauer for it. i am glad that i too have had a number of amendments tabled in the subcommittee on human rights, and i believe that these have also contributed to the quality of this report. human trafficking is one of the most sophisticated and best organised, most prosperous forms of crime. it is not just a problem of the third world, but also a problem of the european union. in my amendments i drew attention to the fact that a large proportion of the victims of sexual abuse and trafficking are minors, who are the most vulnerable part of the population. for example, a child's consent to engage in prostitution cannot be considered the consent of an adult who is aware of the consequences of his actions. many international agreements and treaties have been signed to deal with the problem. however, many states have not ratified these documents, and those that have ratified these conventions do not take care to implement them, thus effectively rendering these documents invalid. at international conferences involving states, we all agree that the documents we endorse need to be implemented in practice, but these efforts often end with the last day of the conference and the status quo remains unchanged. in addition to focusing on the customer-victim relationship, attention needs to be focused on employers, especially in countries with a visa-free policy. cooperation must exist between all three elements, i.e. between the source, transit and destination countries. there is a need to control the activity and credibility of employment agencies, including those that are considered to be only agencies for the recruitment of seasonal workers. companies that employ cheap labour acquired through trafficking in human beings must be subject to particularly severe penalties. inspections of sexual establishments are insufficient. it is desirable that administrative inspections be carried out in addition to criminal sanctions. ngos that work on political rights have many times more resources than those that work on human trafficking or women's rights. unfortunately, this also shows the priorities of the individual companies.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to ask colleagues to accept the replacement of amendment 21 with a clearer text as follows: ‘the commission should address the problem of child trafficking in the sports sector in the context of the council framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings, with particular attention to cases where some clubs might consider giving contracts to very young children in order to circumvent the home-grown rule’.
i would like to express my appreciation for the fact that from the very beginning the itre committee has sought to adopt clear rules for participation in the 7th framework programme with the greatest possible degree of transparency. we have also taken the same responsibility in the process of seeking the simplest possible administrative procedures, with particular regard to small entities participating in the 7th framework programme. most of the basic principles for determining the rules for participation in euratom are identical to the general rules for the 7th framework programme. for the sake of brevity, i will not be here to give details of the agreements reached. however, the implementation rules for the euratom 7th framework programme also have their own specificities, which relate in particular to fusion control research. i would also like to acknowledge that in this programme too, agreement was reached and a number of specific amendments were adopted, which will help to implement the iter project more efficiently and to finance other initiatives which are a priority for the european fusion community.
thank you for letting us talk about this. the concept of 'patient rights' in the european union is a purely theoretical one, as there is considerable legal uncertainty in this area. patients' rights in the provision of cross-border healthcare are given exclusively by judgments of the european court of justice, and only since 1998, when the european court of justice ruled in kohll v. decker. it cannot be assumed that citizens will be informed that on 16 may 2006 the court of justice delivered a judgment in the yvonne watts case, which clearly demonstrates that when the waiting period is unreasonably long and the health of a patient is at risk, that patient has the right to treatment abroad and that that treatment must be reimbursed in the home country. the average citizen often does not even know about these judgments. legislation is needed that is binding on states and where patients can find all the details on how to find a specialist abroad, or details on reimbursement of procedures. the commission's communication gives us some hope for the health services directive, but it is too early to say when it will be adopted. i would like to point out that the public can send comments on this notice until 31 january 2007. similarly, the quality of healthcare and the availability of the latest methods and theories vary from one member state to another. it is necessary to give patients the choice of where to be treated, because waiting unduly long can be waiting for death.
although romania's preparedness is lacking in many respects, i voted in favour of the adopted document because it is critical and rigorous. i want to emphasise that, in addition to the most criticised areas, i must not forget such areas as human rights and minority rights. i therefore welcome the provisions which, although very generally, state the need for subsidiarity, at least for cultural self-determination and, in turn, for the financial provision of full education in the mother tongue for citizens of hungarian nationality. i believe that the copenhagen criteria for the rights of national minorities have not been applied rigorously enough, as confirmed by the outrageous report that three teachers were expelled from the babeš-bolyai trilingual university in kluži on monday for promoting the multilingual designation of school premises. it is a very bad signal, especially since romania will be responsible for multilingualism in the union in the commission. once a country joins the eu, its problems will weigh on the union's external and internal security. the introduction of monitoring and systematic evaluation by the commission, with the possibility of applying safeguard measures, is a very rational solution.
we need clear rules on the market for pyrotechnic products, which is why i supported the report by rapporteur joel hasse ferreira. the contribution of the european parliament will facilitate procedures and labelling for professional users of products, such as airbags and car seat belts, which use pyrotechnic technologies. this will help to maintain the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. a single european union directive with harmonised safety requirements will replace 25 parallel national approval procedures and remove the current complex legal framework, which is non-transparent and represents a significant administrative burden for businesses. i am convinced that we have taken the right steps towards the free movement of pyrotechnic articles, with an emphasis on a high level of protection of human health and the safety of citizens.
as soon as the commission announced in october this year that free movement for citizens from the new member states would be postponed until 2009, our protests were heard in the european parliament and we launched a number of activities, starting with questions to the council and the commission and then with the still open written statement no 72 aimed at respecting the originally planned date of entry into the schengen area. for this reason, i regard the european parliament's st nicholas decision last week by its interior ministers, which will allow citizens from the nine new member states to travel freely within the european union as from 1 january 2008, as a major success for the union and also as the fulfilment of our parliamentary interpellations. i would like to thank you for your support and express my confidence that all countries, including slovakia, will meet the strict safety conditions for the temporary variant of the current system, which will be deployed from the portuguese plant within the agreed deadline.
i welcomed the report in which the president of the united states of america, george bush, announced that he would be taking steps to ease visa requirements for the new central european member states of the european union. president bush's decision to launch the program is also the result of long-term pressure from new members of the european union. their leaders have reminded president bush at every opportunity that they are interested in visa facilitation or visa-free travel with the united states so that their citizens can travel to the united states without visas on the same terms as western europeans. in the case of slovakia, it is important to mention that thanks to the reforms of the government of mikuláš dzurinda, the country has made great economic progress and the economic reasons for visa violations and illegal migration to the us are no longer so pressing for slovaks. such travel facilitation and visa waiver for citizens of new countries will also have its toll in the form of compliance with the required security measures. i believe president bush will be able to push this program through the u.s. congress.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteurs, mrs fourte and mr heaton-harris, for their work in producing these technically demanding reports. from the outset, the customs union has been regarded as one of the cornerstones of the european community. the customs code is a practical tool for ensuring smooth cross-border trade and must therefore take into account the new challenges posed by a globalising economy. the creation and subsequent practical application of a modernised customs code is a logical and at the same time necessary element for the effective advancement of the european market. the proposal reflects the efforts to create a customs and trade environment based on increased efficiency of customs procedures through the exchange of information, the elimination of administrative burdens and the facilitation of trade at both european and international level. in an era of technological progress, the electronic system opens up new possibilities for the faster and more efficient implementation of commonly recognised standards. the proposal is a unique opportunity to bridge the remaining differences in the customs systems of the member states, as it will guarantee increased interoperability of national systems, which has so far failed to provide sufficient incentives. the safety issue is now coming to the fore and the proposal does not leave this area unaddressed. it contains specific measures for the security of the external border as well as data protection. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we vote to accept these proposals, by rejecting them we would paradoxically be putting a stop to the free trade we are striving to create.
i also join those who support the council's recommendations and thank the rapporteur for drawing up the european parliament's report on this issue. the basic reason for this report has already been mentioned several times here tonight. every day, 600 people die from accidents or injuries, a quarter of a million a year. these figures reflect the grief and misery of families who have lost loved ones, but also the great economic burden that accidents and violence have on the state in the socioeconomic sphere. in many member states, hospitals have to consider very carefully the effectiveness of treatment, for example in oncological diseases, while the treatment of injuries and victims of violence costs us a lot of money, and in this case it can be said that these are preventable diseases. each year, 7 million people are admitted to hospitals in the european union and up to 65 million people require medical care. so these are statistics that also express and represent the extraordinary suffering of all those affected. for these reasons, i consider the proposed joint action of the member states of the european union to be very effective in reducing the number of accidents and violence. quality statistics, which also respect the differences between the different member states, will help us to identify more precisely the method and type of prevention. if we know that people over 65 represent 16% of the population of the european union, but that up to 40% of fatal accidents are involved, we must carry out repeated information campaigns targeting these age groups, or introduce protection regimes. the younger generation is an equally important group to focus on in preventing accidents and violence. accidents are very common in sports under the supervision of coaches, and possibly also in leisure activities. we must value our health and the health of others and resist the violence that is poured out on us daily from television, movies, and children's games, and very often it is a guide to similar behavior in society.
first of all, i would like to point out that i am of the opinion that economic cooperation as well as development cooperation should be included in a single financial instrument, based on a dual legal basis, namely articles 179 and 181 (a). however, i respect the conclusions of the trilateral meetings which have resulted in the original financial instrument being divided into economic cooperation and development cooperation. the instrument for financing cooperation with industrialised and other countries and territories, as well as with high-income countries, is a flexible financial instrument which, by its widespread geographical scope, reflects the current situation. it also considers as developed countries countries those that are still included in the so-called dac list of developing countries, despite having long since ceased to be such countries. these are countries like brunei, taiwan, singapore, saudi arabia, bahrain, qatar and so on. these countries are important trading partners of the european union and it is therefore necessary to extend the cooperation we have so far with countries such as japan, south africa and australia to these new countries. however, as the countries in this financial instrument are very heterogeneous, it is essential to include in all treaties clauses on human rights and respect for democratic principles. in my amendments to this report i have pointed out that the role of the european parliament must be strengthened. in conclusion, i would like to say that i support the european parliament's agreement to any change in the list of industrialized countries and that the commission should also regularly assess the objectives originally set and the cost of the changes. in conclusion, commissioner, allow me to express my great admiration for your work.
in general, what is approved by democratic agreement and by a large majority is good. i assume that this will also apply to the 2007 general budget of the european union after the vote on thursday. in this context, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the budgetary negotiating team in advance. on the other hand, the budgetary parameters indicate a persistent problem. the ratio between commitments and payments, or between the resources available and those actually expected to be used, is still too high. this shows that the organisation of the extraction and use of resources, paradoxically, especially in those countries which need development funds the most, still has considerable reserves. this also applies to the new member states of the european union, where real drawdowns currently range between 20 and 30%. as each country announces that the approved projects will cover the full amount of available funds, the main problem now appears to be their implementation and the reimbursement of the costs of these projects. the key instruments for dealing with this situation are in the hands of the governments of the member states of the european union. if they do not turn over, they will reduce the room for economic growth and the long-term financial framework will remain a mere piece of paper.
the 2007 budget is the first budget of the seven-year programming period and is clearly of strategic importance for the years ahead. it is of the utmost importance that we enter the new financial period with determination and prudence. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the members of the committee on budgets and all the negotiators for the work they have done in negotiating the 2007 budget of the european union. i particularly appreciate the support of the socialist group members in the european parliament in the new member states' efforts to reduce the administrative reserve of eur 50 million. this issue is particularly important for the new member states. the essence of the problem is that maintaining a high financial reserve would seriously jeopardise the recruitment of new staff. this is particularly true for the new member states, whose quotas are far from being filled. the representatives of your institution, madam commissioner, have repeatedly stressed in meetings with members of the european parliament in the committee on budgets the problems that threaten the recruitment of staff to the institutions of the european union. thanks to these warnings and thanks to the united position of the socialist group in the european parliament, the situation has changed to the point where we are very close to a substantial reduction in this unnecessary reserve. if we succeed in doing so together, it will be a great gesture towards the new member states of the european union, which already include, in fact, romania and bulgaria. the citizens of our countries are very sensitive to the relationship between words and deeds in the european institutions. i would therefore like to invite you to support the solution of our common objective.
for the ppe-de group. the committee on women's rights and gender equality did well to entrust two rapporteurs from the ppe-de and pse political groups with the task of drawing up a report on the commission's proposal for the establishment of a european gender institute. we have thus achieved a balanced report and i would like to congratulate mrs sartori and mrs gröner warmly. it would be wonderful if we could declare tonight that the creation of an institute for gender equality is not necessary because all forms of discrimination against women have been eliminated. it would be good if we could say that there is no longer any discrimination in the pay of women, that the value of the work of women and men is fully recognized also in the field of domestic work, and that we have free choice for mothers and fathers of families, because family life is reconciled with professional duties. this is not the case, however, despite the fact that the european union offers a whole arsenal of legal instruments to protect human rights. in this situation, the european institute of gender can be a useful tool. whether it lives up to our expectations will be seen in the evaluation in five years. will we have the courage to cancel it if it's rated negative? will we have the courage to make more use of the funds allocated? i want to warn you not to rely too much on the gender institute to solve all the problems of equal opportunities between men and women. just as the european legislation has not solved this for more than 50 years, neither will the gender institute. only the personal commitment of every man and woman, politicians and ngos, will ensure that women are not discriminated against, that all women, including the poorest, have access to justice and that their worth, honour and dignity are fully respected.
the european commission's clean air for europe programme has identified a number of sectors that contribute the most to environmental pollution. however, so far it appears that measures are only adopted for the automotive sector. today we are setting euro 5 and euro 6 standards, which reduce the maximum emission limits to very low levels. i understand the argument that the adoption of euro 6 standards already in this proposal will provide certainty for manufacturers as to when and by how much emissions from cars have to be reduced. on the other hand, we have to look at the current situation in the long term and we find that over the last three decades, emissions from motor vehicles have been steadily declining sharply, for example by up to 95% for particulate matter. the question is whether we will eventually have completely clean cars that most of the population cannot afford. therefore, impact studies should also take into account the economic consequences of future reductions in the maximum permitted emission values for cars. in slovakia, the average age of vehicles is well above the european average, as for many residents, buying a new car is an investment they cannot afford yet. as regards access to information in the case of motor vehicle repairs, i understand that this is primarily in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, but on the other hand it is questionable whether sufficient protection of the intellectual property rights of the car manufacturers concerned will be ensured. i am glad that mrs weisgerber has succeeded in getting this report to deal with access to information in a separate framework directive. i was one of several members who tabled amendments to remove this part of the proposal, as access to information should be dealt with in a separate legislative act and not together in a proposal for emission reductions. i hope that the european commission will present a proposal for a framework directive in the near future, in which we should strike a balance between free access to information and the protection of intellectual property.
after the debate on this very large and demanding legislation, which has been three years in the making, many of us in this house have certainly been in a dilemma about how to vote on reach. support the compromise package, support the common position or reject this proposal? on the one hand, the compromise package is too weak in the eyes of environmentalists, on the other hand it poses a threat to the chemical industry, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in terms of competitiveness and job preservation. after a responsible consideration of all the comments from stakeholders, i voted for a compromise package with the european parliament's clear handwriting, because i believe we need rules to get more information about the 30 000 chemicals in products that surround us in our daily lives. we need to replace 40 standards that are now obsolete with a single document for the registration, evaluation, authorisation and, not least, restriction of chemicals. we need a strong impetus for european research to ensure the gradual and natural elimination of harmful substances from production, even where this regulation does not impose substitution. i am convinced that this legislation is the right step to improve the quality of life of european citizens.
let me touch on the issues that concern the need to increase the level of liberalisation of the energy market. it must be accepted that member states formally respect the relevant directives on the (ownership) separation of energy production, transmission and distribution and that they implement those directives appropriately. nevertheless, we do not see any significant changes in the energy market in the member states. the lack of a competitive environment continues, with the monopoly position of the parent companies already in the separated activities of the energy chain prevailing. the entry of new energy companies is often blocked, from protectionist efforts to disproportionate regulatory intervention by the state with a negative impact on energy prices and investment in research and technological development. i call on the commission to continue to encourage individual member states to take more decisive action to increase the competitive environment and remove administrative barriers in order to open up energy markets more effectively. i would also like to highlight another important aspect, namely the disproportionate interference of the state in the activities of regulatory authorities, especially in the area of price regulation, which is aggravating the process of liberalisation of the energy sector. several governments of the member states are threatening the independence of their regulatory authorities by amending the relevant laws, which allows the nomination of representatives of the relevant ministries with a clear pressure on price regulation. it is therefore necessary for the commission to accelerate the process of harmonisation of the regulatory framework, with the possibility of establishing a so-called european regulator that would effectively eliminate disproportionate interference with the independent status of national regulatory authorities.
the principle of non-discrimination and gender equality are cornerstones of the democratic principles on which the european union is founded. it is therefore natural that, in order to support the promotion of gender equality more effectively, the union should also seek to establish institutional mechanisms such as a gender institute. that is why i supported this report at second reading. we welcomed the commission's decision to set up a gender institute in the new member state, given that gender equality in the new member states lags far behind the european 15. i express my sincere satisfaction that, by decision of the december council, the seat of the institute has been transferred to lithuania. i admit that i am a little disappointed that slovakia, which according to statistics is one of the countries with the worst gender balance, has not been able to assert its position in the council, also due to its favourable geographical location. i am convinced that in the european parliament, together with my colleagues zaborska, bauer and belohorska, we have made significant progress towards establishing an institute in bratislava through our speeches and active promotion of slovakia.
i welcome the outcome of the vote on the nuclear safety regulation. nuclear energy is an important pillar of providing stable and clean electricity in the world. following the events at three mile island and chernobyl, the community's attention was focused on the countries of central and eastern europe and the states of the former soviet union. the aid provided has contributed significantly to the safety of nuclear installations in these countries. the slovak republic has also received extensive assistance in improving the safety of the nuclear power plants in jaslovské bohunice and mochovce, so that they now achieve the same level of safety as similar nuclear power plants in western european countries. it is desirable that the community also provide assistance for nuclear installations under construction, in operation and decommissioned, and, where appropriate, support the improvement of safety in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. the draft regulation is in line with the interests of the european union and the objectives and mission of euroatom. by enhancing the safety of nuclear installations beyond the eu's borders, it will contribute to protecting the health of the union's citizens and also make an important contribution to nuclear non-proliferation.
with peace in europe and no more war raging, we can rejoice that the recent brussels meeting of the european union was described as unusually calm and dull. in my view, the summit was a very busy one and very important for the realisation of the idea of a common europe without discrimination. i am referring to free movement without passport controls, including for citizens of the new member states. mr president-in-office of the council, the finnish presidency has delivered an important message to all europeans. in the so-called schengen area, the european border will move eastwards from the czech-german border to the slovak-ukrainian border as of 1 january 2008. the finnish presidency set the necessary tone. i believe that slovakia in particular, together with all the new member states, will meet all the requirements and the schengen area will be extended. i wish you all a blessed, grace-filled christmas.
