the aarhus convention was hailed at its inception as one of the most ambitious achievements of democracy in the field of human environment protection, not only because it enshrined a new generation's human right, that is, the right of people to a healthy and quality life, but also because of the logical assumption that involving citizens would raise the level of environmental protection, first in the adoption of measures and then in their implementation. but the conjecture requires continuation. rules should be laid down under which the authorities must share environmental information with the public, who should then be able to seek enforcement of the standards in the courts as a last resort. we're talking about the implementation rules of participatory environmental democracy. in view of the fact that the european union is preparing a white paper to bridge the information gap between it and its citizens, the content of this regulation is very timely in the broader context of relations with citizens. the commission has also provided, on the basis of the aarhus convention, for certain non-governmental organisations to have a right of access to the highest judicial instance, the european court of justice, in order to better implement environmental legislation. the logical corollary to the finding on this regulation is that ngos play an important role in environmental protection. the interpretation of the convention given in the council's common position on this segment is different. it is based on the fear of abuse of the european court of justice, but that is not a logical explanation. half-hearted approaches to environmental enforcement efforts or the exclusion of certain areas of the work of the european institutions from democratic scrutiny would send the wrong political signal to member states. it is possible that this would reduce rather than increase their responsibility for implementing environmental legislation.
we are talking about one of the essential policies of the european union and i am pleased to be able to thank my colleague mr tannock for a very good report and you, commissioner, for your number one ambition. the security of the eu is fundamentally dependent on the quality of democracy and economic development in our neighbourhood. i support the clearly expressed political will not to be satisfied with the status quo for pragmatic reasons, but to actively support the development of democracy, respect for human rights and the development of a social market economy on a sustainable basis in our neighbourhood. i particularly support the call on the commission to set clear criteria for assessing the achievements of the neighbourhood policy, and i assume that respect for human rights will be a key element of those criteria. i cannot fail to stress the vital importance of regional cooperation as well as projects at local level. i would also like to see youth cooperation projects and, in particular, projects for the development of civil society in the framework of action programmes. i end by strongly supporting the views of the osce and the council of europe. i am convinced that the european union can and must achieve more through the osce than it has done so far, including across the border of the neighbourhood, and i am thinking in particular of central asia. thank you very much for your attention and i hope that we will strengthen the parliamentary dimension of our cooperation in the future.
the analysis of growth in the european union has shown that we are not implementing the objectives of the lisbon strategy effectively and seriously enough. the fact that women are still significantly worse off than men in terms of employment and pay is simply unbelievable and unacceptable in today's world and for the countries of the european union. given that europe is facing a serious problem of ageing and low fertility, we need to address inequality in the workplace in the context of this issue. we should be so concerned that we should direct all our efforts, both in the european union and in the individual member states, towards identifying the causes and addressing this issue as effectively and seriously as possible. a genuine participation of society as a whole is needed, as the responsibility for this situation cannot be placed solely on women who are no longer prepared to take on the full responsibility for their children and who are often financially disadvantaged, first in the short term and then in the long term when they retire. so what is needed are the appropriate legislative measures, the consent of the whole society and the willingness of citizens to take on the responsible but wonderful task that we call parenting. in doing so, we need to increase the positive attitude towards life in society and encourage women not to miss out or give up the most beautiful mission and joy in life that motherhood brings. nor does motherhood necessarily preclude a career or a political career. it is simply a matter of choosing the right time for all things. the example of the women members of the european parliament is also a good one, as some of them have three, five, nine or even ten children. and these women have not come to parliament to rest, but to work very responsibly and efficiently, because they know how to work with a sense of human need and because they also have an ear for the community.
it is clear that the political situation in the world, in countries and regions, is moving away from our values, aspirations and expectations, and is not calming down or democratizing. at the same time, we have expressed the wish for more europe from various parts of the world. in mongolia, they say the european union is our third neighbor. whenever i visit the balkans, latin america, the caucasus or central asia, i hear the same thing - more europe. and while many of our partners want more europe, we ourselves are often unproductively preoccupied with ourselves, forgetting the fundamental ideas of schuman and the other founding fathers of europe, and wanting to build more europe with less money. it is not surprising that our partners and our citizens do not understand the rumours about the various pillars of our policy, but they feel exactly when we are united and when we are divided and ineffective. the experience of energy supply has taught us that national policies alone will not bring us more security from within or more influence from without. i have the impression that the development of events today requires more common policies than the ratified constitutional treaty would allow. if we really want to play a role of importance in the balkans, in eastern europe or elsewhere, we must find stronger expressions of our common security and foreign policy. the role of the european parliament, which has proved to be a dynamic and responsible actor, would certainly contribute to this.
mr president, on 9 february the italian parliament passed an act that flagrantly interferes with the sovereignty of slovenia and croatia. the act unilaterally concedes italian citizenship to the descendants of the citizens of the two countries who have resided in the territories that italy ceded to the former yugoslavia under the provisions of the peace treaty of 1947 and the 1975 treaty of osimo. this introduces a kind of reoccupation of the territories over which italy, as a defeated power of the berlin-rome axis, definitively lost its sovereignty. considering the entirety of the european peace arrangement after the second world war, the said act represents a threat to peace and security in europe. therefore, i wish to call upon the president of the italian republic, carlo azeglio ciampi, to make use of his veto and not to endorse the act.
mr president, is it worth drafting legislation with the aim of relieving the pain of poor creatures that are going to live just six weeks? my answer is yes, and not just out of kindness to animals: this is linked to human health concerns. the economic aspects of the industrial production of broiler chickens have rightly been taken into consideration. however, the case also concerns the limits of the safe decoding and manipulation of animals’ genetic material. we should have thought long ago about the dimensions of the industrial production of broiler chickens, not only for reasons of animal welfare, but also on account of the unplanned and unintended effects on the genetic material – in terms of resistance and reproduction, for example – of the animals providing our food, and the subsequent effects on us. the danger of an outbreak of avian influenza is linked to the problem of control measures, and these measures do not consist only of vaccines. one of its sources is overly intensive chicken farming, which is also not ideal. i welcome this first piece of eu legislation of this kind.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good work done on this proposal. i am very pleased to note that once again the three institutions – the council, the commission and parliament – have been able to work together very effectively and very quickly within the framework of the codecision procedure. a very good precedent for interinstitutional cooperation was set last year by the agreement reached on the schengen border code, to which this regulation represents the necessary complement. we can therefore say that with the adoption of this regulation the legislative component of our integrated border management strategy is fully completed; and, if i may say so, i very much hope that we will continue to work together effectively in the future, for instance on the decision-making process and on other very sensitive issues such as the legal basis for the vis and sis. the adoption of this proposal will be a very important and balanced step forward, as it will provide the necessary flexibility at our external borders to facilitate crossings by bone fide people residing in a border area without, however, creating any security loopholes. this is particularly important for the new member states, especially in view of their forthcoming integration into the schengen area, where they will become responsible for the control of the schengen external borders and will thus carry out checks on behalf of all schengen states. in this context i wish to recall that the adoption of community rules on local border traffic is included in the much broader european neighbourhood strategy. it is thus one of the measures aimed at strengthening cross-border cooperation with the eu neighbours and people-to-people contact. finally i conclude by stressing again that the text that is under examination today is a very balanced and important proposal.
the reporter. the purpose of this regulation is to lay down common rules on the criteria and conditions for establishing a border traffic regime at the external land borders of the member states. given that the original material - the commission proposal - was quite demanding for people living on the european union's external borders, i highlighted the following in my report: it is necessary to facilitate the crossing of borders by border residents who have justified reasons for frequently crossing the external border of a member state and to prevent illegal immigration and possible security threats posed by criminal activities. the proposal for a regulation seeks to address the issue of cross-border traffic, which is frequent, in some cases daily, border crossing for reasons of education, work or family ties, and it is therefore necessary to take into account that day-trippers return home every day. the external borders also differ in historical, geographical and social circumstances and life along the borders must not deteriorate. it is necessary to take into account the actual situation at the external borders and to enable member states to maintain as far as possible the good practices established so far by bilateral agreements. the substance of the amendments i am proposing, which reads as follows:instead of a special 'l visa', border residents will be issued with a border traffic permit, the so-called local border traffic permit, which contains all the security standards and, very importantly, is not stamped at every border crossing. there is no need to distinguish between the different external land borders, as the member states will enter the schengen area in the coming years anyway. the border area - this definition has generated a lot of debate. we agreed it wouldn't exceed 20 miles, except for maybe 30. as the border area increases, we may no longer be able to meet safety standards. but the border area cannot be equated with ethnic borders. a frontier resident is a third-country national who has been resident in a frontier area for at least one year, by harmonizing a proposal which contains a whole series of exceptions in the case of marriage, inheritance and so on. member states shall determine in bilateral agreements the maximum duration of the authorised period of stay, which shall not exceed three months in total, i.e. the decision to allow a third-country national to stay in that border area for three months in total. in the case of specific circumstances, it is also necessary to allow certain facilitations for border crossings outside border crossing points. there are, say, farmers who are co-owners, have half of their property in their home country, half in another country, and of course they can't cross the border every time with their tools. the adoption of this regulation will demonstrate that the european union does not close its borders, that it does not impose non-living conditions at its external borders. the european union wants to ensure that appropriate security standards are respected, without making life worse for people at the border. the coexistence and cooperation of people on both sides of the border are important elements of stability and security at the external borders. this is why the achievement of this regulation is so important, since member states will create the conditions for the development of border areas, which are for the most part less developed, by means of bilateral agreements with neighbours, i.e. third countries. this regulation provides a basis for strengthening economic, cultural and other links on both sides of the border and is therefore of importance for the border countries as well as for the european union as a whole. i should also note that we have had several rounds of coordination with the commission and the council. the negotiations were successful, although they took some time, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs also adopted this regulation by consensus in its debate and vote. let me conclude, mr president, by thanking all those who have taken part in this process, namely the commission, the council and, in particular, mr cashman and mr lax, who have contributed particularly actively to this report. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources is a direct implementation of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it puts the emphasis on the environment, the promotion of innovation and the infrastructure needed to enable europe's competitiveness and independent growth. renewable energy is the european union's natural wealth, reducing our dependence on imports and improving our environment. their use also increases the diversity of energy sources and improves the reliability of energy supply. we need to use them not only for electricity generation but also for heating and cooling buildings, since this alone accounts for more than 40% of all energy use in europe. a recent eurobarometer survey showed that people support a common european energy policy. this is why we need to develop clear guidelines and incentives in europe, also in the field of cooling and heating. we need to set a common objective, but leave it to the member states to define their own national objectives, which should be reasonable and binding. the targets should be set in the light of the natural characteristics of each country, since not all countries have the same conditions, for example, for the use of solar energy or biomass. it is with biomass that we must be particularly careful about how we encourage its use. it is also a raw material for the wood processing industry, which generates many jobs and high added value. using wood as a natural material reduces the energy used to produce the final product, reduces greenhouse gas emissions and also retains carbon dioxide that has accumulated in the wood over many years. let me conclude by saying that it is wise to use only wood waste that is unsuitable for recycling for energy purposes, and to convert the rest into useful raw materials. the european energy policy must be designed accordingly.
on behalf of the alde group. bosnia and herzegovina has finally entered into and is making good progress with the stabilisation and association negotiations. this is good, encouraging, and worthy of all our respect and admiration. it is difficult to find anywhere in the world a more complex and demanding state structure than bosnia and herzegovina, which is why its achievements and progress are all the greater. i am very pleased about this and in the alde group we support the efforts of the politicians and the drive of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and welcome their determination to move forward even faster. ten years after the srebrenica massacre and the end of the war with the signing of the dayton agreement, it is certainly high time to change the constitution of this country, to establish such a state, cantonal and local structure of administration that will help bosnia and will not be an obstacle to the adoption and enforcement of the rules and practices that we know in the european union. we should build more on the rights of the individual, the citizen of bosnia and herzegovina, who will be a citizen of the european union tomorrow, and less on belonging to a religious and ethical community. bih is facing a difficult transition in this area and we all have a duty to help them - the commission, the council and, in particular, the newly arrived high representative, who should use his powers less and less and encourage the bosnian authorities to take on more responsibility and competence themselves. the reduction of the military presence in bosnia and the transfer of mission command from nato to the eu is clear and convincing evidence of progress along this path. but we cannot proceed without full cooperation with the court in the hague. just as serbia and montenegro must find and extradite general mladic by the end of the month, so bosnia and herzegovina, more precisely the republic of serbia, should extradite karadzic - a precondition for pardon and reconciliation. we must be aware that the path to the european union is mainly a path of improvement and the all-round development of relations and respect between all neighbours. in bosnia and herzegovina, christian, orthodox and islamic civilizations have lived in peace and harmony. they all spoke the same language and communicated with each other without difficulty. today, they speak three different languages, but they still understand each other and communicate more and better. in view of the recent problems with cartoons, it is appropriate to recall the bitter history of bosnia and herzegovina. maybe that'll sober us up, and maybe then we can change the visa regime easier and faster.
bosnia, in my view, is at a very sensitive moment, which could be described as a transition from the pursuit of its own peace to a period of pursuit of its own development. since the text of the resolution understands this very well and both speakers have said it very well, i support this text of the resolution. but i would like to point out that, in my view, the strengthening of central authority in bosnia is crucial for its future. i personally do not believe that bosnia can be a developed and secure country tomorrow unless the decision-making processes in this country are simplified. these highly complex decision-making processes have been and still are largely a function of the peacekeeping and cooperation of the three national communities. but if bosnia is to make any real progress, it must make political decision-making much simpler, more transparent and, of course, more democratic, with ever-increasing power of the central authorities and ever-decreasing presence of representatives of the international community. all this, in my opinion, is a condition for the people, the people of bosnia and herzegovina, to feel more confident than you can feel on their streets today if you visit the country. (applause) i would like to thank you.
first of all, i welcome austria's highlighted ambition with regard to the western balkans, which remains a key area of our common security, foreign and defence policy within europe itself. i also welcome bosnia and herzegovina's progress towards a european perspective. after years of watching the tragic events in bosnia and herzegovina, we wanted more europe. we now have more europe in the political and military sense. ten years after dayton, we want more bosnia and herzegovina. the european union has offered bosnia and herzegovina a credible prospect of full membership, and the dynamics of progress are increasingly dependent on the political will and quality of decision-making in bosnia and herzegovina itself. tragic experience has shown that progress cannot be ensured by the exclusion or disablement of any constituent element in bosnia and herzegovina, but only on the basis of respect for the dignity of all identities and all entities. progress will therefore be made as quickly as possible as soon as european standards of respect for diversity and, of course, a willingness to seek common denominators are established in mutual internal relations. one of them is certainly the new constitutional arrangement, for it shows that the dayton agreement has run out. i expect the next presidency to continue to pay particular attention to the western balkan countries.
each region has its own natural characteristics, so it is necessary that each country also develops its own strategic rural development plan. the community strategic guidelines are intended to provide general guidance and assistance to individual countries. the countryside is one of the key factors in preserving the cultural, ethnological and natural heritage that enriches our lives. in order to preserve and develop rural areas for the future, it is necessary to ensure that working and living conditions do not lag behind those in urban centres. this requires more investment in education, less red tape for new investments and the provision of adequate infrastructure. the preservation of the cultural landscape is a very important task and cannot be left to chance and to the increasingly few individuals who are willing to do so despite their low incomes. our ancestors farmed the land not just for survival but for love of it. today, that's not enough. young people need to see the possibility of advancement and a solid income and adequate social security. the social security of women is still poorly provided for, and it is also unacceptable that mothers working on farms still do not have the same rights and rewards as women working in other industries. farmers need to have a lot of knowledge to carry out their profession and to carry out complementary activities in the countryside. yet, these occupations are the least valued in society. if we want young people to see their possibilities and opportunities in the countryside again, we must also raise respect for agricultural work and respect for the countryside in general.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the european institute for gender equality is in keeping with the fundamental requirement of giving european gender equality policy new tools for progress. you will surely agree with me that equality between women and men is as much a political goal and even the very foundation of our democratic societies as it is an economic one. it represents a fundamental dimension of the economic, social and political life of europe. full participation of women, full equality of opportunity, full participation in employment has also become a key element of the european economy in the union, which must face the ageing of its population and demographic decline. however, the commission's 2005 and 2006 annual reports on gender equality show that the pace of progress in this area is slow. there are still major obstacles to this goal of the company. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not exploit the potential that women represent, we will not be able to achieve the lisbon objectives, but above all we will not be able to compete globally. gender equality, beyond its deep political content, is our key competitive factor in a global competition that is very tough. in order to eliminate all remaining inequalities between men and women, it is therefore of the utmost importance to redouble efforts at union and member state level and to take account in particular of the increased diversity in the enlarged union. for these reasons, the creation of a european-level instrument has been considered necessary since 1999. the european council therefore invited the commission to submit a proposal in june 2004. the commission has submitted a proposal for the establishment of the institute. the institute should be a technical tool to assist the european institutions, and in particular the commission, in designing policies and the member states in implementing them. it will first collect, analyse and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable data within the community. it will also develop appropriate methodological tools, in particular for mainstreaming the gender perspective in community policies. finally, it will also help to make community policy more visible, which is particularly important at the present time and which is the essence of the political democratic process, simply because things have to be seen with the naked eye. if they're not visible, if they're obscured, it's very difficult to mobilize the public, it's very difficult to get majority approval. our proposal is the result of numerous analyses and takes into account the outcome of two feasibility studies and the numerous discussions that have taken place. one of the studies was carried out by the commission and the other by the european parliament, which has supported the establishment of the institute since 2002. the proposal takes account of budgetary constraints and does not represent new expenditure for the european budget. ladies and gentlemen, the commission wants this institute to become a centre of excellence. there is no such centre at european level. there are some excellent workplaces of a university or other type, but there is no such center. this is why we need to respond, and why the commission decided to meet the high demand from all actors.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs before i say a few words, i would like to support a colleague who spoke just before me about the importance of financial resources for the successful work of the institute. i am writing as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs and welcome the proposal to establish a european institute for gender equality. i have also proposed to the constitutional affairs committee that the institute be renamed the agency. with this amendment, i wanted to emphasize the political commitment of the institution, less its academic status, which the word institute is supposed to express. however, on the occasion of international women's day, as it were, the european parliament is giving the impetus to a new step in the promotion of equal opportunities, which i consider to be one of the fundamental ambitions of modern europe. i hope that the institute will not only be a passive statistical office measuring equality or inequality, but also an active proponent of new strategies that will ensure real progress towards equality. i cannot avoid the temptation to inform this high-ranking official of slovenia's candidacy for the seat of the institute. if slovenia is selected, it will be an encouraging decision, because on the one hand we have extremely successful transition results, but the data show that these results were more successful for men than for women. on the other hand, the authorities are actively working to change things and in this light, the establishment of the institute in a new member state would be a fortunate decision as it would encourage positive developments.
i believe that the most social country is the one that creates the conditions for quality jobs and ensures equal opportunities for its population. quality jobs can be secured by investing in human capital, by lifelong learning, by promoting labour market flexibility and by pro-economy legislation. citizens need favourable external conditions for their work and creativity and for the satisfaction of their basic needs. it is different with vulnerable groups such as the elderly or young people without work experience, the sick, the disabled and single mothers or families with several children. all these groups need the attention and help of society in order to be socially protected and not excluded from society. but i cannot understand the decision of the european council to reduce funding for education and youth scholarships in the negotiations on the financial perspective, where we can achieve a great impact with relatively small resources in the field of education, foreign language learning, international integration and relations with the european union. we strive for all these values in almost all our documents. as long as we in the european union take concrete action contrary to our words and our convictions, we cannot achieve our objectives any faster. time may have never flown faster in human history than it does today, and there is no sign of it slowing down, so quick and simple solutions to adapt to these changes are also needed to achieve greater economic growth and better social protection for vulnerable groups.
drafting member of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control two compliments firstly, to rapporteur grässlevi, who has been a great inspiration to all those who have worked with her throughout the preparation of this report. and then to the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mr fazakas, who, in this great time crunch, did everything possible to ensure that the two committees, with excellent cooperation, brought this report before parliament. as a co-rapporteur and draftsman of the opinion on the financial regulation, i would like to emphasise that the main objective of the report was to make the financial regulation and its implementing rules less bureaucratic, easier to understand, simpler and above all more user-friendly. this would also ensure a more efficient use of budgetary money. the report pays particular attention, as the rapporteur has said, to the area of public procurement and donations. at many meetings, we heard, in particular from ngos, that they no longer wanted to cooperate with the european union because the bureaucratic procedures were too long and, above all, too expensive for them. nobody, including myself, would want to change anything in the regulation in a way that would make the use of taxpayers' money less transparent. in preparing the report, however, we have tried to find a new, more successful balance between the efficient use of money on the one hand and democratic control of it on the other. the committee on budgetary control, chaired by mr fazakas, in particular, is extremely sensitive to this issue. the opinions of the court of auditors have therefore often been of decisive importance to both rapporteurs and in particular to the committee on budgetary control and have been taken into account in the report. and let me just say, in closing, that no one, especially in politics, wants to have a financial affair. no rules, however well-written, can ever prevent them, but they can make it possible to manage budgetary money more or less successfully and to have more or less public confidence in legality and efficiency. in conclusion, i would like to say that this report is moving in the right direction, that the solutions proposed are creating a new balance of success, and i look forward to the adoption of the report tomorrow.
energy is the basis of our activities and the basis for success in implementing our policies. the energy situation will be a major factor in how and whether we can achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. commissioner, you are aware of this situation and have therefore stepped up your work and published this month the green paper on a common european energy policy. is it not high time we looked for answers to the questions: how to ensure a safe and sufficient supply of energy at competitive prices while taking care of the environment? what should our energy mix be in the future? how stable are the areas from which we can import energy resources? what is it and what will their price be? how does their use affect the environment, etc.? the answers must realistically assess the contribution of individual primary energy sources to the overall european energy mix and give a fair assessment of the efficiency of existing technologies and the potential of emerging new technologies, including taking into account the natural resources of the member states. the time has come to avoid political rhetoric and face reality. i would like to stress in particular that nuclear energy cannot and must no longer be a taboo subject in the european political space. nuclear energy already today does not cause greenhouse gas emissions, allows the import of uranium from different countries, including politically stable countries, and has a stable and competitive price precisely because of this. future r&d work is expected to further improve its efficiency, reduce the amount of radioactive waste and increase safety. this should also be reflected in european strategic documents and concrete actions.
the issue of human rights is built into the foundations of the european union. the failure to respect the decision of the austrian constitutional court, which for years has required the display of bilingual signs in german and slovene in the southern part of the austrian province of carinthia, where the slovenian minority lives, is also mentioned in the latest report of the us state department on the respect for human rights of 8 march 2006. on the same day, however, the head of the district of korçë, jörg haider, initiated proceedings against the district head, august murij, on suspicion of abuse of office, because he had finally issued a decree to install bilingual signs in pliberk (bleiburg). two bilingual signs were also displayed for three days in our parliament in brussels. as you know, the russian side has formally proposed that the issue of the violation of the rights of the slovenian minority in austria be included on the agenda of the eu-russia meeting. i wonder what the commission will do to resolve this clear case of violation of the rights of the slovenian minority, at least during the austrian presidency of the european union.
i support the őry report and all other efforts to establish the internal market of the european union. the effective functioning of the internal market is, of course, based on the free movement of capital, goods, services and labour. the free movement of capital and goods has been achieved with relative success. we have great difficulties with the free movement of services, and of course there are also great difficulties with the free movement of labour. the lisbon strategy was designed to boost europe's economy. we hear about the importance of competition all the time and we take action against protectionism - but what is the practice? when it comes to capital and goods, some countries are particularly consistent in advocating competition and competitiveness, opening up the market to even cheap goods from asia. those who keep teaching the importance of competition and the weakness of protectionism when it comes to goods and capital are simultaneously closing their markets for services and labour. isn't that protectionism? the year 2006 has been designated as the european year of labour mobility and it is in this year that some member states intend to extend the transition period. i ask you, how are we to explain this to the citizens of the member states? very difficult. on the other hand, it is clear that all those who have opened their markets are making progress and their economic development is worthy of attention. any country that decides to further close its labour market must, in my view, do so on the basis of arguments and on a country-by-country basis, not in a bloc. if the european union is to compete successfully with others, it must itself fully achieve the free movement of capital, goods, services and also labour in its internal market.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss with you today a subject of great importance for europe. i know from my own very intensive contacts with citizens in recent months that the topic of better legislation and everything related to it - perhaps not as a catchword, many citizens do not know what is behind it, but as a principle - is one of the topics that most concerns citizens. as you know, the commission's programme for this year is rightly entitled 'unlocking europe's full potential'. the council is convinced that better legislation is crucial to lay the foundations for this. our legislation is meant to support citizens, not restrict them. this applies, as mrs mccarthy has already said, to the consumer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council has only recently given signals and impetus to promote small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. we know from studies that the administrative burden on businesses and citizens is between two and five per cent of european gdp. we therefore want to achieve a significant increase in competitiveness through impact assessment, simplification and reduction of administrative burdens. better regulation is a term which has been used very often in recent times. i am in full agreement with mr lehne that the child should not be thrown out with the bath and that this term is very often used in a somewhat inflationary and loose way, although it is not always clear what it means. i therefore welcome, on behalf of the council, the fact that parliament is dealing with this subject in no less than four reports today. the council presidency continues to see the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which has been mentioned today, as the framework for our cooperation. we intend to continue to push forward the agenda for reform of the regulatory framework in cooperation with the future finnish presidency, the commission and, of course, your house. i would like to go into some of the areas which are relevant in this context. first, simplification: simplification of eu rules is tangible for businesses and citizens; so it's also particularly efficient if we can create more credibility here. we are on the right track with the screening initiative by commissioner verheugen and the current plans for sectoral simplification and further horizontal simplification efforts. i am also very impressed that the president and the vice-president are here today and taking part in this debate, because we must - and we are doing - encourage the council and the commission to go further along this path. because here we are doing something for greater civic proximity. as you know, the austrian presidency is somewhat under the motto 'bringing europe closer to the citizens' and these initiatives, including those of the commission, are making a great contribution to this. they also help europe succeed in achieving the lisbon goals. the presidency of the council welcomes the fact that the commission intends to incorporate the results of the council's efforts in the field of 'simplification of existing legislation' in addition to the general afforestation of the aquaculture. we are working with the future finnish presidency and the commission to improve working methods for simplification and to ensure the most efficient possible cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. it is therefore also useful for the commission to inform the council annually of its simplification programme. we also propose that the simplification dossier be given priority in the agendas and that the council and parliament should endeavour to adopt simplification dossiers at first reading where possible. the administrative burdens which have already been mentioned are of course directly measurable for those concerned and have immediate effects. we need instruments in the european sphere. these instruments exist, but now we must use them. the presidency is currently preparing a paper setting out quantitative objectives in this area. the third point i would like to address is the choice of legal instrument. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but at the same time we must ensure that the acquis communautaire is maintained. we want a better europe, but we do not want a less europe. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are central 'guidelines' for the institutions in the exercise of union competences and therefore an integral part of better lawmaking. subsidiarity and proportionality also play a central role in the choice of legal instrument. when carrying out impact assessments, several options for action shall be considered; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the option of acting at a lower level than within the union. on the other hand, regulations may also be more appropriate than directives in the interests of legal clarity and the proper functioning of the internal market - this has also been discussed today. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty on european union, which is to be ratified by the member states. in practice, therefore, there is a close link between high-quality impact assessments and the effective application of subsidiarity and proportionality. the council and parliament are also already obliged, on the basis of the interinstitutional agreement, to make full use of the commission's impact assessments in the political decision-making process. these commission impact assessments therefore also provide a basis for an active discussion of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i would like to mention once again that we are planning to hold a conference on subsidiarity in austria on 18 and 19 april to deepen this discussion, and we hope that you will also make valuable contributions to the conference. impact assessments must be drawn up in the best possible quality and then used in the negotiation process, as has been generally emphasised today. the austrian presidency will present a kind of handbook for the chair of council working groups entitled 'how to handle impact assessments in council'. we also want to continue to promote interinstitutional cooperation, in particular in the impact assessment of major amendments by the council and in the consistent application of the agreed procedures in all three institutions. in this context, we look forward with great interest to the review of the commission's impact assessment announced for this spring. the presidency of the council shares the overall view of the european parliament that high-quality impact assessments are an essential prerequisite for an improved regulatory framework. the involvement of stakeholders in consultation processes is important for greater transparency. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. finally, a word on transparency: what is important for the acceptance of our decisions by citizens is not only that we make laws that are understandable and simple, but also that we explain better how decisions are made. the decision-making process should be as transparent as possible for the public. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the austrian presidency of the council is keen to see further progress on the issue of transparency. the first steps are being taken by decisions taken last december. on this basis we are now trying to put this into practice and, if possible, to show further steps towards greater transparency. as i said at the beginning, better lawmaking is a project of the citizens, which concerns us all directly. if we succeed in this, we can create tangible added value together and make the benefits of the european union clearer to citizens once again.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, european legislation is at the heart of everything that makes the european union unique. in fact, we are a community of law. without the right, we would be dependent on constant negotiation, on the balance of power between member states or on the goodwill, in principle only, of cooperation and goodwill. we do not want a community based on arbitrariness or discretion. we want a community of law. it is the law that can guarantee the freedoms enjoyed by europeans today. i think that is an important point of principle and i will allow myself a personal remark. three days ago, at the european university institute in florence, i gave a lecture, the jean monnet lecture, which was precisely about my conception of law in the european union. i believe that it is more necessary than ever to reaffirm these principles of a community of law, which is our community. this is what makes it different from other experiments at the international level. we legislate for many reasons: for example, to protect health by ensuring food safety, to protect the environment by setting standards for air and water quality, to provide rules for companies operating in the internal market so that they can compete on equal terms, avoiding any discrimination. we are legislating at the level of the european union because the member states have agreed that certain measures are to be adopted at community level. in practical terms, this means replacing 25 national rules with one single rule applicable throughout the union. however, we must ensure that european legislation and regulations bring added value: they must be targeted, respect the principles of subsidiarity and be properly implemented, while being proportionate to the needs they address. the measures adopted must not be excessive or go beyond what is strictly necessary. rules that are too prescriptive, that involve unnecessary expenditure or that may prove counterproductive should be avoided. it is also necessary to eliminate the overlapping rules which, over time, end up overlapping, which is detrimental to businesses, the voluntary sector, public authorities and citizens. so let me congratulate the european parliament on the excellent initiative it has taken in this debate on better lawmaking. it gives us an opportunity to examine this question in a coherent way. i would like to thank mrs frassoni, mr doorn, mrs mccarthy and mr gargani, here replaced by mr lehne, for their excellent work and for their reports. to really weigh in on the quality of our legislative initiatives, we need a set of measures and a strong guiding principle. this is clear from the various reports, which i believe provide a solid basis for our exchange of views today. these reports and the way we respond to them show that our two institutions have come a long way in recent years. there is a real consensus on the need for better legislation and better rules. our legislative work is an ongoing process. we must work together to ensure that whatever our policy choices are, they are translated into legislation of the highest quality. i would also like to congratulate the austrian presidency on all the initiatives it has taken in this regard. how do we approach this challenge? we recognise that we still need to make improvements at all stages of the cycle, from the acts already adopted to the new initiatives and the proposals under negotiation. this is why the commission has launched a comprehensive better lawmaking package, which combines several measures: a system that assesses the impact of important commission proposals; a programme to simplify existing legislation and withdraw a number of commission proposals pending before parliament and the council; and the more frequent use of means of problem solving other than conventional legislation, such as self-regulation by the parties concerned or co-regulation by the legislator. all these measures are now producing tangible results. let us look at impact assessment. since 2003, the commission has put in place a system to look at the economic, social and environmental impact of all its major proposals. since the adoption of an integrated approach, 120 impact assessments have been published. we have also updated our guidelines to help staff to better examine options and impacts, including on competitiveness, and to focus attention on issues such as the cost of too much paperwork. this reflects a marked and profound change in approach and attitude. i believe it is real progress. we know that as yet assessments do not all meet the same standards. we know there is room for improvement. we recognize, as mr doorn's report on behalf of the committee on legal affairs points out, that quality can be improved and that quality control mechanisms must be strengthened. i fully subscribe to the need for a separate scrutiny of impact assessments; a kind of 'four eyes' principle. we are working on a comprehensive approach. first we need to ensure that our impact assessments are organised in the right way. as promised in march 2005, we are setting up a network of technical and scientific experts to help us develop methods of ensuring that impact assessments are comprehensive and of high quality. an external evaluation of the system is also under way, to identify where we are doing well and where we need to do better. also, the authors of impact assessments need feedback to know if they have done a good job. that is why consultation is part and parcel of the impact assessment process. it is also one reason why all commission impact assessments are on the europa website. as for quality control of the individual assessments, i agree that an independent check should be carried out independently of the services that propose legislation. i suggest that the best guarantee of impartiality is to put such a check under the authority of the president of the commission. i have asked the secretary-general of the commission to examine how best to step up our quality support and control. but let me stress that we need to work much more closely with you on impact assessment. i welcome the recent agreement on the common approach to impact assessment. this set of rules for dealing with impact assessment across all three institutions is an important step forward; it will facilitate our work together and avoid duplication of effort. moving on to simplification, we have made a good start. the action programme, which we adopted last year, provides for the repeal, codification, recasting or amendment of some 220 legal acts covering a wide range of policies. the programme, already under way in the automotive, waste and construction sectors, will be reviewed and updated in consultation with stakeholders. other sectors such as foodstuffs, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and services will follow. we need your input to determine the right targets and to secure the best results. we need the council and parliament to speed up the adoption of simplification proposals. my reading from your reports is that we basically agree on what we're trying to achieve. now we have to get down to work, look at the substance and deliver results. we are also tackling administrative burdens, which are particularly burdensome for small businesses. this means simplifying forms and modernising the customs code to assist electronic exchange of information. we are introducing the measurement of administrative costs in our impact assessments. it is essential that the council and parliament pay attention to the paperwork load when they suggest amendments. we also need to test new approaches to regulation, looking at co-regulation and self-regulation as a possible alternative. we can work more closely with industry, for example, to deliver results on a voluntary basis. i understand very well your concerns about not being closely involved in the preparation of non-legislative approaches. where such approaches seem the best route, i fully accept the need to work out ways of keeping parliament involved in their preparation and implementation. finally, i would like to say a word about the implementation of law. this is a high priority for the commission. i ask you to look at the conclusions of our college meeting today. we analyzed 2055 cases of infringements. that was the commission's decision today. sometimes the decisions are very difficult and we expect some member states to react. i hope you support the strong commitment of this commission to the implementation and enforcement of community law. our laws need to be correctly applied and implemented, otherwise our efforts as policy- and lawmakers are in vain. as more and more policy areas mature, we should see a shift in political attention and resources towards implementation. in fact that is a great priority for this commission. this whole programme of better regulation including implementation has become a flagship of this commission. i am personally devoted to it, as are vice-president verheugen and the whole college. as the commission we need to manage infringement proceedings efficiently. i am aware of the need to reduce the time span on individual infringement procedures. we need quicker ways to respond to the problems faced by citizens in business. we should look at these broad issues of implementation together and explore constructive ways of dealing with them. later this year i expect the commission to come back to you with specific suggestions. i believe that the reports discussed today show a shared analysis of what needs to be done. we have been putting the building blocks in place and now we have to deliver on our commitment. i am convinced that if we work in partnership we can show that europe is not about red tape and unnecessary burdens but about delivering what citizens need in the right way. i believe that if we work in partnership we will reinforce a community based on the principles of law. (applause) i would like to thank you.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs. i support the efforts of the commission and all others to improve legislative policy, to better prepare the european union's legislative acts, and at the same time i regret that the constitutional treaty was not adopted. we have in fact prepared a very good, transparent regulatory framework in the constitutional treaty. this is all the more reason to speed up the ratification process of the constitutional treaty. mr barroso today mentioned areas that need to be better examined. add to that the terrorism. in the field of terrorism, 58 regulations, directives, etc. have already been adopted. - 27 are in process, about 15 more to come. in short, we have a very unprecedented system of counter-terrorism in a normative form, in which i myself do not find myself and i hope that the terrorists do not find themselves in this confusion. europe suffers from at least two idealisms. one is normative idealism: if the field is unregulated, we think we'll regulate it better with more regulations. the result is pure hypertrophy of regulations. the second is organizational idealism: if we think that an area needs to be better regulated, we create an institution. we created an equal opportunity institution last time, and before that, a human rights institution. like we're gonna have more and better-regulated areas. these are illusions that will not come true, and it would be right for the commission to examine how these areas are regulated and how, of course, they affect people. because people wonder if it's really necessary to have so many regulations, institutions, and so on. i also think that the commission does not need a new institution to monitor legislative acts, to review its proposals, because there is a parliament which can do its job quite well. finally, the european institutions will not gain in reputation by a multitude of regulations, directives and so on, but by operating in a transparent way that benefits the people and reinforces the european idea.
in a europe of cultural and ethnic diversity, it is very important to build bridges between peoples. preserving our culture and learning about the cultural heritage of other nations must be and remain our guiding principle. culture is the most non-intrusive and effective link between peoples who want to live in peace and cooperation with each other. the european capital of culture is the place to connect us. at the same time, it also provides an opportunity for the regular hosts to invest more in cultural facilities and projects with long-term positive effects on the economy. this project also encourages citizens to engage in cultural activities and to learn about culture in all its dimensions. i also welcome the proposal to award the prize while fulfilling the criteria for the european capital of culture, as the organisers have most often complained about the lack of funds, which the european union has only paid after the submission of reports. our total resources represent only a small contribution compared to what local communities, the member state or the private sector put into the european capital of culture. we should not make it more difficult to raise funds by means of complex administrative procedures, but we should make it easier for organisers to do their job, which will also contribute to a better relationship between citizens and the european institutions. the proposal that a mixed electoral council should decide on the choice of the city is also a good one, as it will take better account of the international dimension and will increase the possibilities for a fairer choice of the city, as different privileges are more quickly established at national level.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member who was not born on the iberian peninsula, i have a minute to express my conviction that the current level of cooperation between the european union and latin america does not reflect the interests of the countries and their citizens on both sides. i am very pleased with the excellent report by mr salafranca, in which the european parliament is assuring its share of the political will needed for the strong and genuine development of the strategic relations. i would like to stress that this development benefits the whole of the european union, not just some of its members. finally, i believe that bilateral relations are not only important with individual countries or with mercosur or the andean community, but also with all of latin america.
each nation is proud of its own language and wants to preserve and use it in a united europe. linguistic diversity is a rich cultural image for europe. learning foreign languages also helps us to learn about a nation's culture, history, and country, which also contributes to greater mutual respect. what is a great effort for adults is often a game for children when learning foreign languages. it is therefore right to introduce the teaching of two foreign languages in schools at an early stage of education. knowing a language also makes it easier to establish friendly contacts with other peoples, and this is especially important for peoples from neighbouring countries, since we tend to have the most in common with our neighbours and also the most problems. it is therefore sometimes quite incomprehensible that some politicians build their political power on restricting the rights of minorities to use their mother tongue, as is the case with the slovenian minority in austria's carinthia and the minority in italy. austria and slovenia are working closely together in various fields, and i am convinced that the democratic public in austria does not approve of haider's anti-slovenian behaviour. the austrian presidency of the european union is exemplary. therefore, from this place, i once again call on the austrian government and the democratic public to respect the austrian state treaty, which enshrines the rights of minorities. the italian government should also start implementing the law on the protection of the slovenian minority. the european union institutions should also play a more important role in the violation of minority rights and give a strong warning to countries that, while on paper, guarantee rights to minorities, in practice violate their own laws and also the rules of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the aim of the proposed regulation on nutrition and health claims is to harmonise european legislation in that area. that should combine two elements: firstly, introducing the general rule that in the interests of consumers, nutrition and health claims must be clear, accurate and meaningful; secondly, protection of truthful producers from unfair competitors. after a very controversial debate we now have a compromise package for second reading. does it meet the original aims? we believe it does. we may not be entirely happy with the result, but we have to take into consideration various interests such as the fears of small and medium-sized enterprises, the danger of procedures that are too long and too bureaucratic, the interests of producers and genetic descriptors – provided the main objective of improving public health is maintained. some of the restrictions proposed by the commission were unclear and open to interpretation. in order to avoid legal uncertainty, the european parliament adopted a large number of amendments, inserting clauses designed to make application of the regulation easier. some of them have become part of the compromise package that the alde group supports, together with other political groups. on one of the two most controversial issues – nutrient profiles and in particular the derogation in article 4(2) – we consider that a workable compromise has been reached. therefore we wish to support the wording of amendment 17. the same goes for the proposal concerning trademarks and brands and for article 4(3) on nutrition claims about alcohol, linked to the provision that health claims supporting national authority or community messages about the dangers of the misuse of alcohol should not fall within the scope of the regulation. this is a good result. i should like, in particular, to thank mrs poli bortone for her successful work.
on behalf of the alde group. the new tse case confirmed in austria a few days ago illustrated the correctness of the european union's long-term precautionary policy for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. the rapporteur, ms roth-behrendt, has recorded in detail the member states' positions when commenting for the committee on the environment on the proposed amendment to the 2001 regulation, and the british and austrian presidencies have also been actively involved in the exchange of views. the result of this praiseworthy work is a text on which there is a general consensus among the members of parliament. it is our common view that it is sensible to extend the transitional period and that we remain committed to the principle of a strict ban on the feeding of ruminants with animal protein. we support the commission in adapting existing legislation to new international requirements. the amendments proposed jointly by several political groups are ambiguous and in some respects a compromise, not ideal but practical at this stage. this is the case, for example, with the question of feeding fish meal to cattle. in fact, fish are not a risk factor and fishmeal is not a vector for tses. the dilemma is elsewhere. grass-fed ruminants, immature and juvenile animals do not need fishmeal for their physiological development and meet their protein needs in other ways, as they are the only ones that can produce protein from grass. in addition to ethical concerns, there is the question of the medium-term orientation of the cap, including the appropriateness of preventing the protein content of milk. the compromise solution, the feeding of young cattle with fishmeal under the supervision of the commission, was chosen for practical control reasons, with the aim of preventing the mixing of fishmeal and bone meal on farms, even in theory. that is why we support a compromise solution, even though, taking into account the common position, the expert position, the justification for the need to feed young animals fish protein is not accurate.
what we want to achieve with these reports is a closer relationship with the citizens and a more common europe, which the citizens understand and welcome. there is certainly a lot we can do to improve the situation through better coordination and the sharing of good practice. in the event of major accidents, however, financial and technical operational assistance at a higher level is necessary in accordance with the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity. twice yes, who gives quickly, they said in ancient rome. the bis dat, qui cito dat. the bis dat, which is the cited date. while these reports deal specifically with the consequences of natural disasters, we must also pay close attention to preventive measures. in this context, policies in the fields of agriculture, forestry, water management, urban planning and regional development policies, which can have a significant impact on the scale of the consequences of natural disasters, should also be addressed. for example, intensive livestock farming, subsidized by the european union, is also causing increased desertification in some areas. as regards monitoring climate change and its consequences, i am more in favour of better cooperation between existing research and scientific institutions and the financing of new joint programmes than of new joint institutions, which usually require a lot of money - they are easy to set up, difficult to dismantle - and i am in favour of taking the principles of proportionality very seriously, in addition to the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity. let's only establish new institutions when it's absolutely necessary.
although we do not have a legislative role on this point, the rapporteur's task was not an easy one. i congratulate my colleague, mr langen, on a job well done and on the convincing support of the committee. i particularly welcome the report's clear-cut attitude towards citizens, or consumers, which is essential in the accession countries for a successful transition to the single currency. we are all aware of the importance of the euro project for european integration and the credibility of all actors in the process of enlargement of the euro area. this also means that we must strictly respect the criteria set and not change the rules of the game in the process. i am pleased that slovenia has passed the demanding test, in the opinion of the european commission and the european central bank, of meeting the conditions for joining the euro area. and of course i would be even more pleased if the conditions were met for the euro area to be enlarged with more new member states. i say this in the belief that further enlargement of the euro area is also important for the political development of the european union and for its stronger role in a globalised world.
i would like to welcome the commissioner and thank the rapporteur, mr buzek, for his tireless cooperation and exchange of information and congratulate him on his work. the seventh framework programme for research and development is closely linked to the debate on the future of the european union. but this is increasingly marked by global impacts. demography and energy are the areas of greatest importance for europe in the coming decades, but also the most problematic. they require clear objectives which can only ensure economic and social stability and safeguard the well-being of citizens if we link knowledge and research more closely to innovation and successfully apply them to the economy. demography and energy must be at the forefront of future european research. but let me return to the energy sector, where we are facing increasing problems of security of supply, energy dependence and the implementation of the kyoto protocol. all of this calls for clear objectives, particularly in the medium and long term, which often still cause a great deal of trouble for the old continent. from the perspective of long-term action planning, the focus will certainly be on fission research and the construction of the iter nuclear reactor, which opens up new dimensions in energy research into the potential of nuclear energy globally. research into renewable energy and nuclear fission can provide an appropriate response to our medium-term demand for reliable, clean and competitive energy. for now, europe is still the leading power in the energy sector, but we must be aware of one thing: if we want to maintain our leading role in this field on a global scale in the future, we must look at energy as one sector. one area, although the energy sector is defined in several european treaties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is ready in time for the transition from the sixth to the seventh framework programmes.
we've defined homophobia as an irrational fear of people being different, of something people don't know or don't want to know. opposition to homosexuality is just one form of thinking that is based on deep-seated prejudice. it is similar to the foundations on which racism, xenophobia, and other phobias are built. homophobia is a traditional prejudice, often promoted by the media and abused by populist politicians. it's a wide range of actions, from hate speech and vilification of the different to calls for discrimination against marginalized people and actual legal inequality. at times, such policies have quite broad support, especially when they link homophobia with national chauvinism, religious fervor, contempt for national minorities, and so forth. it is precisely because ideas can spread like wildfire, especially in a deteriorating economic climate, that we have a duty to call attention to the illegality of homophobic and racist behaviour. but prejudice-reduction is also about teaching people to tolerate others and it overlaps with other kinds of tolerance-education. the european parliament can identify the threat, raise the alarm and explain the protagonists, but action is ultimately up to the member states.
for fifty years, the slovenian national minority in croatia has been waiting for the implementation of article 7 of the state treaty with vienna, and during the austrian presidency of the european union, it was high time to regulate at least part of the constitutionally guaranteed rights, for example bilingual topography. now, the cases are being resolved, but in violation of several international standards for the protection of minorities. the formula 10 plus 15 does not implement the judgment of the austrian constitutional court. like compromise can be the beginning, not the end, of legal protection for minorities. but the goal is precisely this: to end the question of bilingual topography forever. the elevation of this compromise to constitutional law amounts in practice to the abolition of article 7 of the vienna state treaty, its unilateral revision and a violation of international law.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is very grateful for the hard work that has gone into the preparation of this report and for the excellent collaboration with our services. i believe that we have worked towards an initiative that will have an echo in the years to come in other jurisdictions as well. liner shipping has been organised as a cartel, albeit legally, since the 1870s, not just in europe but in most other industrial nations. by taking the step of examining market conditions carefully, we have all come to acknowledge that liner shipping is a highly competitive industry that does not need to be protected against competition. we are confident that our initiative will encourage our major trading partners to review whether their approach to this industry is correct and economically viable and, most importantly, our perseverance has convinced the industry that it does not need price-fixing. it is now considering in earnest how it can best adapt to a very competitive environment, fuelled by globalisation. parliament’s contribution to this process has been significant. first, the committee on transport and tourism produced an own-initiative report in december 2005, in response to the commission’s white paper, drawing our attention to several issues we had not considered before. we took those issues on board as we pursued our revision process. then the committee on economic and monetary affairs set out its views after extensive discussions with my services. we are grateful for your work and the confidence you have shown in addressing these complex issues. we will respond to your suggestions in the coming months in several initiatives, for instance through information updates on the situation regarding the application of competition rules for liner shipping in third countries, the commission guidelines on the application of eu competition law to the maritime transport services and a reassessment of other legislative texts on the validity of which you have raised doubts. we will consult widely and look forward to parliament’s views on the guidelines.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr alvaro, rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and mr bullmann, draftsman for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for their outstanding efforts and readiness to reach an agreement on this technical and complex file. the proposal for a regulation on payer information accompanying the transfer of funds is an important step towards our aim of cutting off terrorist funding. it shows the eu’s determination to participate fully in the international efforts to combat terrorism. nobody can deny that combating terrorism is a key political priority worldwide today. at european level, the commitment to combat all forms of terrorism is clear. the eu plan of action on combating terrorism defines as a priority close cooperation with the financial action task force and the adaptation of the eu legislative framework to the nine special recommendations on terrorist financing adopted by this body. the proposed regulation transposes into eu law special recommendation vii of the financial action task force. this recommendation requires that money transfers be accompanied by the identity of the sender with name, address and account number. this regulation will facilitate the traceability of money transfers through a number of obligations. these obligations apply to payment service providers, mainly banks, but also money remitters. they will be obliged to send information on the payer throughout the payment chain and keep the corresponding records. this information shall be available to the national authorities in order to assist them in their tasks. it will help combating money laundering and terrorist financing. the agreed deadline for the implementation of this special recommendation is 1 january 2007. non-coordinated action by member states alone in the field of cross-border transfers of funds could have a significant negative impact on the smooth functioning of payment services at eu level. it would also damage the internal market in the field of financial services: hence the importance of respecting the deadline. parliament, the council and the commission have worked hard during the last year to reach an agreement on the text. we all have done our best to find solutions to complex issues and i believe that we have been successful in doing so. one of the main topics of discussion in our negotiations has been the issue of the eur 1000 threshold, below which receiving banks in the eu would not be obliged to reject a transfer or to ask the sending bank to complete the information on the payer. the commission is pleased that this option has finally not been retained. this idea has also been rejected by all member states in the council. terrorists can be financed by a series of small payments below the threshold. i consider this a valid concern if we want to tackle terrorism effectively. a solution has also been found with respect to the obligation of the receiving banks to stop dealings with foreign banks not sending the appropriate information, and on the obligation to send back low-value payments. i have noted parliament’s concerns on these points. the circumstances under which these obligations apply have been restricted considerably, making them a solution of last resort. i am also happy to note that we have been successful in reaching agreement on technical issues, such as the use of systems with technical limitations by intermediaries receiving funds from outside the eu. now that an overall agreement on comitology has been reached between parliament, the council and the commission, the adoption of this regulation is an excellent opportunity to put into practice that agreement. i am therefore appealing to the members of this house not to insist on the inclusion of specific sunset clauses on the commission’s regulatory powers under this regulation. all in all i think this proposal is ripe for adoption in a single reading and i hope it will receive support from all of you. this regulation provides us with means to combat terrorist financing in a consistent manner throughout the european union. i look forward to hearing your comments.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, this regulation is part of the efforts of the european institutions to improve our effectiveness in the fight against terrorism and money laundering. analysis of terrorist attacks in europe has shown that terrorist groups raise money for their activities in a variety of ways. some of these have also been transferred outside and within the european union, and of course at different levels. this regulation will subsequently strengthen controls on money transfers and require banks to ensure that for each transfer of funds of the prescribed amount, full information on the payer is available. even if this will lead to a slight increase in the workload of banks, this regulation should not reduce the efficiency of payment transactions. although it initially appeared to be one of many regulations - and i should mention that there are about 60 regulations of this type aimed at combating terrorism - although it was one of many regulations which we initially thought we would be able to complete quickly, this did not happen. a series of amendments were proposed, but the most frequent discussion was about the amount of funds to be controlled. after further consultation with the rapporteur, the commission and the council, 15 agreed amendments were finally produced, which we in the european people's party - european democrats support. we therefore naturally support the amendments relating to the review clause and the threshold for transfers. at the end of the negotiations, the question of the cia's access to bank transfer data via swift codes and, of course, the possible consequences for data protection also arose. in the european people's party, we believe that this issue is not covered by this regulation and therefore we do not support the debate in the context of this report. and although there have been a great many regulations, directives and so on since 2001 relating to the fight against terrorism, in our political group we believe that this regulation will contribute to making it easier to identify the financial ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
the regulation on the european association for territorial cooperation has undergone considerable changes in the discussions on the cohesion package. understandably, it is a new-generation legal instrument designed to support crossborder cooperation initiatives in regions constrained by the diversity of national legislation. the question of whether this is the right way to promote geographical cohesion will be answered definitively in practice. the answer will depend on the conditions in the various countries. are they regulated centrally or federally? are they big or small? are they continuing the cooperation already developed or are they starting to cooperate across borders? the new mergers introduced by this regulation are likely to be targeted. the advantage over existing forms of crossborder cooperation is a higher level of enforcement of legal acts, which increases the responsibility of company bodies and sharpens the financial responsibility for managing common assets. we have reason to believe that the additional budgetary resources will make a significant contribution to the territorial cohesion of the european union.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, particularly for having shown that although the term 'globalisation' sounds like a threat in european society, we can turn modern social processes to our advantage by responding appropriately. it pointed to three weak areas in particular: the creation of new knowledge, cooperation in the creation and use of new knowledge and funding. i too would like to focus on three areas which i believe will be crucial for the successful implementation of the lisbon programme: firstly, the research area, then the synergy between national and european policies and, thirdly, the european institute of technology. firstly, the commission, in cooperation with the european parliament and the council, has prepared a proposal for the seventh framework programme. we must conclude the negotiations on this research programme as soon as possible so that it can be implemented in time. the financial resources for it were very tightly constrained during the negotiation process on the financial perspective, and therefore the entire research budget must also be realised from a financial perspective. no reason can be good enough to further reduce these funds. secondly, action at european level can only encourage action by individual member states. the appropriate results can only be achieved through synergy of action at european and member state level. i therefore encourage the commission to also monitor carefully the work of individual countries and to publicly highlight examples of successful countries or successful practices. thirdly, the synergies between the fields of education, scientific research and the economy are also very important. it is important that the commission is actively working to accelerate this cooperation - i am talking about the european institute of technology. but to ensure that the proposal does not remain a political project, we must listen carefully to the views of all the parties concerned. we must encourage the real development of the european research area, and avoid further shredding of money and its use for the expansion of bureaucracy. thank you, thank you!
respected ! without a regulated environment, clear rules and respect for international obligations in the energy sector, the words about economic growth, increased employment and the competitiveness of the european union have no solid basis on which to rest. the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy is inextricably linked to energy, including nuclear energy, whether we like it or not. nuclear power accounts for a good 30 percent of europe's electricity, generated by 154 reactors. with these figures, one of the concerns of opponents - and of the public - is surely how to deal with nuclear waste. the time has come to adapt the existing 1992 directive on the control of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel to the development of modern society, as the commission's new proposal does. the simplification of the current directive, the clear procedures and the definition of the use of languages are particularly commendable. in addition, rapid technological advances now allow up to 96 percent of highly radioactive material to be recycled or reused. i therefore support the proposal to standardise the procedures for dealing with spent nuclear fuel, whatever happens to it in the process. i think the document deserves our support. finally, i hope that we will act in a coherent and constructive manner and take account of the opinion of the competent itre committee. i hope that we in the european parliament will not unnecessarily burden the directive in question with additional text or amendments, thus making it more difficult to implement in advance.
there were reports in the newspapers that the us authorities had access to swift, but it was not clear whether this was just swift in the us or also in europe. if it's the united states, it's none of our business. access to swift data in europe is primarily the responsibility of the belgian authorities, which should grant any access. at this point, all we know is that swift is supposed to be transferring certain terrorism-related data to the united states. that's two problems. firstly, the european parliament cannot start a serious debate on the basis of mere press reports and vague statements. and second, he must respect the contract and be aware of his responsibilities. it is known that the belgian authorities have launched an investigation into this, but no results have been obtained. in this context, it should be made clear that access to swift does not imply the screening of normal transactions such as cash deposits or withdrawals, cheques, electronic payments, etc. the socialists and some other political groups do not see it that way. they tabled a joint motion for a resolution arguing that the us authorities have access to swift data and that this is a violation of the fundamental provisions on the protection of personal data. so it is not, as mr wiersma says, a matter of supposition, but of fact. nor are they interested in the fact that the belgian government is responsible for investigating this case and not the european parliament at this stage. in order to preserve the dignity of the european parliament and to respect the legal order of the european union, we have also tabled a resolution in the european people's party - european democrats, which would like to point out that the rules of the game must be respected and that the institution of a resolution should be used only when indisputable facts are available. only in this way will the european parliament maintain its public image and not resemble a debate club. i support the position of commissioner frattini and i call on the members to support our resolution, which is fully in line with the legal order and the practice of the european parliament.
the author. citizens of the western balkans have great difficulty travelling in europe. the most extreme example of all is kosovo, where they have passports that many european countries do not recognize. mr commissioner, kosovo albanians are exchanging unmica passports for other passports and we, the members of the european union, are literally forcing them to commit crimes and to seek double, parallel passports. this is an illustration of the misery of our visa policy. it is certainly possible, commissioner, to do more in the member states of the european union to make unmic passports more valuable. in order to speed up the process of europeanization in the western balkans, we need a much more flexible approach, because it is not about criminals - they always find themselves and they come everywhere. these are ordinary people who want to experience europe and european values in practice, at their best when they are just growing up, when they are going to school, when they are embracing their values. so it seems to me, commissioner, that we need to do more to ensure that in the individual countries of the western balkans we also find a way for people not to stand in line for hours and hours and hours waiting for that visa, and then at the end an official at the embassy tells them that there is no visa for him or her and sends them back. visas are issued in the main cities. these are the most undeveloped parts of europe, and it costs a lot of time, money and human pride. it is therefore appropriate to change this visa arrangement.
some of the world's endangered areas receive more attention from the international community than others. increasingly, individuals with a strong humanitarian sense are also trying to draw attention to the horrors and injustices. one such person is tomo križnar, a citizen of the republic of slovenia and the european union, who went to chad and later to sudan as a special envoy of the president of the republic of slovenia. his purpose was to help the people of sudan and alleviate the humanitarian crisis in darfur. during his visit to sudan, tomo križnar accompanied refugees in darfur and reported to the world on developments in sudan. on 19 july this year, tom kriznar was arrested by sudanese authorities on suspicion of espionage and entering the country without a valid visa. he was sentenced to two years in prison, fined, and deported. according to the latest, yet unofficial, reports, he's been pardoned. the positive outcome is the result of the efforts and dedication of slovenian diplomacy and international support. i would like to thank the european union in particular for its help. despite the fact that tomos križnar has been pardoned, i call on european politicians to continue to pay attention to darfur, especially in view of the human rights violations and the serious humanitarian crisis in the region.
we all find that there is no single social model in europe, that there are 25 models. we note that social policy is a matter for the member states. so it's not a question of whether a single model is achievable, but it's a question of whether it makes sense to work towards it. i think it is important that this report highlights some of the common, fundamental values and objectives of the european social models, such as equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, universal access to education, healthcare and other public services. for citizens, these are the key ingredients of a successful economy as well as a just society. member states are therefore constantly seeking to reconcile economic efficiency, competitiveness and social equity. of course, the ways in which we do this vary. social policy is not a cost but a positive factor in the economic growth of the european union, as it creates social cohesion, raises the standard of living of citizens and ensures their fundamental rights, including equality. social policy is an important factor in social peace, political stability and economic progress. and it is this report that is pushing for reforms in economic and social systems to meet the challenges of demographic change, as the report says, globalization and rapid technological development. the european union, of course, plays an important role here, coordinating the various efforts to implement the lisbon strategy, drawing up common guidelines for growth and employment and ensuring a certain level of coordination in the field of social protection. this report shows that social is not a matter of right or left, but a key component of modern society. each member state of the european union is looking for the most appropriate model and this report is a suitable incentive and basis for changing the social models of the member states. congratulations to both reporters.
the european parliament has played a pioneering role in sending messages about the future status of kosovo. the appointment of a special rapporteur for kosovo alone is the message that belgrade and the international public need to understand what the only possible future is. i am very pleased that mr poettering is here with us, because we have a difficult task ahead of us in his term as president of the european parliament. so i think we need to talk about what our parliament can do to make kosovo's future easier. the first thing we should take as our mission is to communicate more directly with the serbian parliament and help serbian politicians to explain that kosovo has been independent for a long, long time. the second is direct cooperation with the kosovo assembly, because it is there, in the kosovo assembly, that kosovo democracy will be built. look, the serbian minority is poorly represented, it's still heavily manipulated by belgrade politicians, and the roma minority is also divided into roma, askalas, egyptians, and their vote is divided. that is why we as a parliament can make a great contribution to this. the council can do more. i would like to remind you that today many member states of the european union do not recognise unmik passports. citizens of kosovo with unmik passports come to the european union and we reject them because we do not respect the documents of this community. commissioner frattini and the council should therefore do more to reduce such incidents in the future. the third problem we are facing is the lack of respect for the different cultures in kosovo, and the serbian orthodox church plays a very negative role in this. until the serbian orthodox church is oriented towards the future, we will have enormous difficulties in convincing the serbian community in kosovo to integrate into the democratic institutions in kosovo. but the key issue is the issue of status. we have offered the western balkans a european future. but we know that only countries can join the european union. the non-state of kosovo cannot participate in these processes. and until we resolve the status issue and give it statehood, we will continue to lie to ourselves and to the public. i would therefore like to conclude my speech by calling on us, the members of the european parliament, to speak up and to make it possible to resolve this status issue now and not just next year.
on behalf of the alde group. albania has come a long way since it opened up. in the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe we have a full understanding of its problems. for decades it was tied to china, but now it has awakened as the most underdeveloped country in europe. so we understand her problems. in particular, the severe economic crises of the pyramid structure that shook its society are still echoing and reflected in the country's problems. however, the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement also presents us and it with new challenges. it got a new neighboring country, an independent montenegro. it will have a new neighbor, the independent state of kosovo. it has a neighbouring country, macedonia, which has been granted candidate status and is only waiting for a date to start negotiations. all these are positive changes that the albanian political elite should take advantage of to accelerate economic and, in particular, social development. the rule of law cannot be based on centuries-old traditions that are not based on the values of the european union. blood vengeance must be a thing of the past, or albania will not be able to progress towards the european union. much more effort is needed in the albanian political elite to fight corruption in order to make economic, political and constitutional development possible. what concerns us most is the failure to combat crime in some of the most sensitive areas. the issue of human abuse, trafficking in human beings, and in particular the abuse of children, is something that undermines the values of the european union and our civilization. the conditions in the prisons are unsatisfactory. albania cannot go on in this state and will have to receive our very strong criticism. without freedom of the press, without the right to speak freely, there is no real self-image. therefore, a prerequisite for albania to progress faster is the power of the press to reflect the problems of albanian society in a mirror. only those who are aware of their mistakes can correct them. so let's not let our albanian friends resent us for being tough with them in dialogue when we try to communicate what they need to see for themselves in the most convincing way. at the same time, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
preserving the architectural heritage of rural and island areas also means preserving europe's cultural diversity and the roots of its peoples. but by destroying it, each nation breaks the bond with its ancestors and separates itself from its roots. the newer parts of european cities are becoming more and more similar to each other as they become more and more connected. how important it is, then, that each nation retain the characteristics that mark it as a nation! the most authentic cultural and natural heritage is certainly found in the countryside. but it also needs to be cared for, or it will collapse and disappear. this is a difficult task, as the restoration of cultural heritage buildings and village centres is very expensive and time-consuming, and the living conditions in these buildings are less suitable for today's conditions. for many owners, therefore, cultural heritage is more a burden than a joy and a source of pride. old crafts are also dying out because they're not making a living. if we look at cultural and natural heritage only through the lens of money and profit, it only brings us loss. a balance between conservation and development must be sought at all times. i support the proposal to declare a european year of cultural heritage to make citizens more aware of its importance. i also support the proposal to allocate funds from the structural funds to the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage in smaller villages, so that owners and local communities are more interested in restoration, and at the same time see opportunities for development and new jobs. the pearls are hidden and small, so even small communities must be able to receive incentives and financial assistance.
in view of the long-term resolution of the border issue between croatia and slovenia, i welcome the latest news from brussels that eu high representative solana and commissioner rehn will only be committed to helping to resolve the unresolved border issues between the countries. i believe that the european framework, through the involvement of both countries in european integration, can make the rescue process easier and more effective. slovenia supports the integration of neighbouring croatia into the european union, while at the same time we expect the croatian government and its citizens to adhere to the agreements between the countries. it is unacceptable that croatia builds bridges and roads in an area where the state border has not yet been definitively defined without prior agreement between the countries. the commission has also received comments from the slovak authorities, which have not provided any information on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
i was going to talk about schengen, but my colleagues have already opened the question. but i would like to respond to the question of who had the courage in hungary. the prime minister did not come out publicly with the amount of lies, but he admitted to talking about it in a small circle. the courage of those who spoke out on the matter was considerable, and i think we as members of the european parliament must be very precise about this.
mobility in education and employment within the european union is important for the greater employment of european citizens, for connectivity and closer cooperation between them, and for learning about other nations and languages. in the field of education, cooperation is improving, although the resources for this are still too modest. if we are to achieve better results, education must also be organised in a high-quality way. if companies see in the organisation of programmes for increased mobility only additional work and no added value, they will not pursue these programmes, as they will only have more work and costs to organise mentoring and disseminating knowledge to the competition. increased mobility of workers requires appropriate incentives for both employees and organisations and enterprises. of course, this requires appropriate measures to stimulate them. we also need to improve the awareness of employees so that they are aware of the opportunities and benefits of mobility. it is therefore necessary to establish specific lists of organisations wishing to participate, and at the same time to establish the institutions responsible for drawing up and promoting those lists. problems also persist in proving qualifications and education in other countries. in many countries, europass is already being used successfully by students and employees, and needs to be complemented and improved. knowledge is a value and the best investment for a more secure future.
nanoscience and nanotechnology have great potential to further improve human welfare. policies must also respond to technical developments, both through incentives and legislative measures. it is about promoting development and regulating to prevent abuse and limit risks. and in this light, the document prepared by the commission is very important. but we're dealing with it relatively late. parliament, the commission and the council are nearing the end of the negotiations on the seventh framework programme. this programme contains some of the essential elements of the action plan. these are areas of research, innovation and partly human resources. i hope to say that parliament has been very serious in its negotiations and in its defence of the proper role of nanoscience both through the definition of the content areas of research and in its clear support for a substantial increase in research funding. in this respect, however, the area defined by the action plan as providing critical mass for infrastructure remains open. it talks about linking universities, research organisations and industry and recommends using existing mechanisms to achieve this goal. in the meantime, however, a lively debate has developed about a so-called european institute of technology, where the idea is to be upgraded. this is about providing critical mass with a focus on human resources. the already considered findings in relation to nanosciences and nanotechnologies need to be taken into account in decisions on the development of further critical mass delivery mechanisms. i would like to stress in particular that we must allow both those groups that have already demonstrated research excellence and those groups that have great potential to become excellent in a relatively short time to participate. nanosciences and nanotechnologies can serve as one of the test areas for establishing closer cooperation within the so-called knowledge triangle. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank mr kacin very much for the positive assessment of our proposal in his report. let me first explain the rationale of the proposal. at the end of an era of reconstruction, and in view of the preparations for accession, we decided to reassess the mechanisms for assistance implementation in the balkans, including the future of the european agency for reconstruction. we explained our views on the future of the agency in a report issued in december last year, which was transmitted to the council and the european parliament for information. the need to prepare the beneficiary countries to assume their own financial responsibility for the implementation of eu assistance led the commission to the conclusion to discontinue the agency but to seek its extension for two years until 31 december 2008, with its current mandate and status, and gradually to phase out its activities under cards. in the mean time, the commission will prepare the programming and implementation of the institute for pre-accession in a deconcentrated manner through our delegations in the countries concerned from next year onwards. so we have both phasing-out and phasing-in going on at the same time. the current regulation expires on 31 december 2006, and, therefore, it is important that the amending regulation is adopted well before the end of the year in order to provide continuity in the implementation of cards and legal certainty for the staff of the agency. a number of administrative decisions will have to be taken directly following the adoption of this regulation before the end of the year. on the phasing-out of the agency, the commission is committed to ensuring an efficient phasing-out and at the same time a phasing-in of the eu delegation’s liaison office in order to deliver aid without disruption and in a cost-effective manner. this is a complex process in terms of transferring staff (to the extent possible), transferring files, closing all remaining financial activities and making all necessary arrangements to ensure sufficient premises for the reinforced commission delegations. the director-general of dg enlargement has created a task force at director level to monitor and steer this process. the commission welcomes mr kacin’s proposal for regular reporting to the european parliament ‘on the ongoing operational details of the transfer plan’. my services will always be at your disposal to reply to your questions and to provide you with updated information on a regular basis. however, for the sake of legal clarity, i would prefer that this amendment is not included in the text of the amending regulation, the purpose of which is merely to extend the mandate of the agency for an additional two years.
rapporteur as rapporteur for serbia and alde rapporteur for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, albania and also montenegro, i follow the political situation in the region very closely and accurately. i am aware that the agency's closure coincides with a critical period in the development of events and the situation in the western balkans. the independence of montenegro has already taken place, and now we are faced with the possibility of local, parliamentary and presidential elections and a constitutional referendum in serbia before the end of this year, which should not affect the timetable for deciding on the future status of kosovo. i have therefore prepared two amendments which i shall present below. as i said in my presentation of the report to the committee on foreign affairs, i support the commission's proposal to phase out the agency by extending its mandate for a further two years. the agency will maintain and extend its current status and mandate, together with the activities under the cards programme, but will be phased out and replaced by commission delegations and offices to manage the new ipa financial instrument. the agency was established in 2000 as the european union's main office for the reconstruction of war-torn kosovo. it was later extended to serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is an independent agency whose mandate is renewed annually by the council and the european parliament. it has always been based on the assumption that it is temporary and will eventually be replaced. ten years after the kosovo crisis, it is clear that the current interim arrangements are not sufficient and appropriate. the western balkan countries are in the process of moving from a reconstruction phase to a preparation phase for possible membership of the european union. facilitating the engagement of the european union in the form of commission delegations is therefore an appropriate and proper way to demonstrate our political commitment to the western balkan countries. this will also ensure that the taxpayers' money is spent properly. it is logical and timely to start the agency's winding-up now that the activities within the cards programme are also being closed down and replaced by the new ipa financial instrument. i am convinced that the new and rationalised arrangements for political and financial assistance from the european union will have a positive impact on the political and economic stability of the region. following coordination with the commission, i proposed an amendment to my original proposal to provide a precise report on the organisational plan for the delegation of responsibilities. instead, i proposed an amendment requiring the commission to inform parliament and the council every quarter of the situation in this area, as the commissioner has said. the process of delegation should be continuous. the quarterly reports should contain brief information on the progress of the division of specific tasks between the agency and the individual delegations, as well as an assessment of their cooperation over the quarterly period. the reports should cover new facts that have arisen or will arise since the last report, while setting new objectives to be met. the reports should also include an overview of how the transposition is taking place in practice in the countries, especially in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is already a candidate but unfortunately currently without a date for the opening of negotiations. in the context of these reports, the commission should also present the measures it intends to take to promote regional projects after the agency has ceased to operate. the commission should also adopt certain plans for upgrading the delegations in view of the dissolution of the republic of serbia and montenegro and upgrading the delegation in the light of the future status of kosovo when this happens. at the same time, i called on the commission to ensure a complete transfer of the valuable knowledge and technical expertise that the agency has acquired in its seven years of operation, and to ensure that it is transferred from the agency to the delegations.
mr president, i welcome the action plan and wish to thank mrs jeggle for her work. the awareness that many animals in the european union are treated badly and that more has to be done is of great importance, not only out of charity but also because, as a developing market-based approach, the humane treatment of animals is an opportunity for european producers, if properly developed. animal protection through law is regarded positively by a growing number of europeans, and the labelling of food products from humanely-treated animals could eventually bring economic profits to producers and become a part of the european social model. on the other hand, global competition tends to push producers for profit at the lowest possible animal protection level. that is why the action plan is also a strong political message to the world. by defining our intentions for establishing minimum mandatory standards against the worst abuses, we underpin the need for discussion at a global level, at the level of the wto. by setting priorities for better treatment of farm animals, by avoiding unnecessary suffering caused by tests that could be replaced and by banning the import of cruelty products, improving the treatment of animals during transport etc., we are pushing for global solutions. we would like to do more, as the amendments show, but the plan is, nevertheless, a solid beginning of a comprehensive eu policy in this area.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr coelho, the rapporteur, for his excellent work on the legal package for the second generation schengen information system. i also take the opportunity to mention the important work that has been carried out by the finnish presidency to finalise the discussions on this legislative package. parliament, the council and the commission have all taken a very proactive attitude in finding compromises on this very sensitive and complex dossier. the justice and home affairs council confirmed earlier this month that this sis tool remains an absolute priority and the commission continues to give the highest importance to this dossier. sis ii will be an important tool to ensure the efficient exchange of information between the relevant authorities. sis ii will contribute to a higher level of security as it will have greater functionalities than the current sis that will be better suited to the operational needs of police and other authorities. moving forward with sis ii will be a decisive step in underpinning free movement, effective border controls and the ongoing fight against serious crime and terrorism. at the same time, better safeguards have been included: for example precise data protection rules have been introduced that should also provide for more transparency and accountability. i strongly hope that the council and parliament will agree on a first reading compromise because the legislative framework is a key element – indeed a precondition – that will allow the commission to complete the development of sis ii and allow it to start its operational phase. any further delays on the legal basis will inevitably have a negative impact on the revised timetable of sis ii, and thus on lifting the internal borders of the european union. therefore i can agree to the rapporteur’s proposal and i will continue to hope for a first reading compromise in order to speed up the process of implementation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the negotiations on all three documents were very long and arduous, but in the end we only managed to reach a compromise, both within the european parliament and, after a certain time, in the negotiations with the commission and the council. we are aware of our responsibilities in such a demanding project as the enlargement of the schengen area, and so we have adopted the legal basis in practice by consensus or by a large majority in the libe committee. i believe we will do the same in the vote in plenary. any further delay in the adoption of the legal bases will affect the start of operations of sis ii and it is therefore essential that the european parliament adopts those bases, as they are the clear basis for the technical establishment of sis ii. the second question is how the council will act and how the next phase of coordination with it will take place. it is now clear that the extension of the schengen area will be delayed for technical reasons. i hear the problems are considerable. we note that the new countries, including slovenia, which have made a great effort to meet the schengen criteria, have met all the necessary requirements. so the delay was not due to our lack of preparation. this also raises the very serious question of the costs we will have to bear as a result of the delay in entering the schengen area. i therefore support alternative solutions that would allow only those member states that are ready, that is to say those that meet all the conditions for inclusion in the schengen information system within the original deadline, to be included in sis i. i hope that parliament will vote on the legal basis, and i congratulate carlos coehl and thank commissioner frattini for his extraordinary cooperation.
mr president, i agree with the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, that during the first reading parliament significantly improved the commission's proposal on life+, particularly with respect to the amount to be included for the funding of natura 2000. i therefore welcome amendment 18, which restates the sum of eur 100 million agreed during negotiations on the financial perspective. there are, however, some reasons why i am not enthusiastic about amendment 10, which, for the new member states, deletes the very important second paragraph of article 6 of the council’s common position. i am afraid that centralised allocation of funding entirely through the projects favours old member states that are more familiar with the procedures. it is common knowledge that institutions of the new member states are not yet sufficiently prepared to compete with their projects on an equal footing. the commission’s proposal that 80% of funding should be allocated to the member states rectifies this objective initial disadvantage, and detailed eligibility criteria should ensure european added value of funding. seen from this angle, i do not consider it renationalisation. with regard to the implementation, i would not object to the council’s solution to the problem.
the youth in action report is very important for strengthening european awareness and european citizenship at a young age. we all know that our citizens sometimes have difficulty identifying with the european dimension and that the european institutions seem rather distant to them, somewhere far away in brussels. with this report, we have tried to find ways of making european citizenship more tangible by promoting solidarity, initiative and creativity. since youth is the most sensitive to innovation, we focused on young people between the ages of 13 and 30. it is right that young people, who are increasingly taking up positions of responsibility in politics, should be given the tools and conditions to direct their thinking towards the common goals of europe. of the five actions underpinning this programme, i would like to highlight the second: the 'european voluntary service'. volunteering is of great importance for the development and future of society. it contributes to the development of existing systems, to the development of the values of solidarity, to the social and other advances of society and should therefore be encouraged and duly recognised. young people working in this field are a shining pearl in a consumer world that is too often focused on the well-being and enjoyment of the individual, and too seldom on the people around us whose lives we can make much better with a little effort. and politics is a kind of voluntariness, too, at least at first. most of us probably entered politics through volunteer work in our youth. i support this report and hope that the ideals it sets out will be put to the best possible use by young people for their own personal development and for the good of society.
the european union's greatest achievement is to ensure peace and harmony among the peoples of europe. critics of the european union have repeatedly accused the european institutions of being too expensive and too distant from citizens. the europe for citizens programme offers us new actions that will help bring european citizens closer together, including those who are not involved in formal education but who want new skills, experiences and contacts with other citizens of the european union. the programme is open to twinning cities and will therefore also be accessible to those who are not involved in the day-to-day running of major european union projects. direct contact and personal experience can make a significant contribution to understanding the union, as i always observe when visiting groups from slovenia in the european parliament. sport also has a great connective power and can communicate without a good knowledge of languages. participation in elite sports is increasingly the domain of a narrow circle of people. this programme, in turn, supports international cooperation of the wider masses. large projects bring great benefits, small ones great satisfaction to many individuals. the programmes will be even more successful if they are easily accessible to citizens and if it is not necessary to fill in a mountain of forms for each application. the overwhelming administrative obstacles to obtaining funds often make citizens lose sight of the european union, and we must therefore, at both european and national level, make efforts to simplify procedures, improve information and make these funds more accessible, while offering good programmes.
on behalf of the alde group. as vice-chair of the delegation for relations with moldova, i am closely following developments in this region of the world and the recent unconstitutional and internationally unrecognised referendum on transnistria's independence held in this region represents a serious setback for all parties involved. on 10 october, pridnestrovian authorities rejected a compromise plan put forward by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce), headed by belgian foreign minister karl de gucht. the proposed plan would create a fairly independent, semi-independent status for the whole of transnistria within the moldovan federation. i regret the rejection of this compromise, as it represents a lost opportunity to bring peace and stability to an entire volatile region. instead, the frozen conflict between transnistria and moldova continues to threaten both the political and economic stability of this part of europe. with romania's accession to the european union in 2007, the european union will also share a border with moldova, so it is in our vital interest to invest the necessary time, energy and commitment in the further negotiations. finally, i would like to call on both the council and the commission to invest more of the necessary political power in the renegotiation process, and i also call on tiraspol to return to the negotiating table and to stop its delaying tactics. at the same time, i also call on moscow to adopt a more progressive policy in resolving this dispute, as a more constructive approach would demonstrate that russia is serious about establishing a responsible and reliable partnership with the european union.
first of all, i would like to welcome romania and bulgaria to the european union. but i want to talk about one of the conditions for bulgaria's accession to the european union, which is the closure of the kozloduy nuclear power plant. despite an updated safety system and a positive safety assessment by the relevant institutions at european level, bulgaria is still required to close reactors 3 and 4 before the end of 2006. bulgaria exports electricity to all neighbouring countries and many meps have insisted on the enormous social, economic and environmental damage and the problems associated with increased import dependence and reliable energy supply that would result from the closure of both units. given the nature of the problem, i expect the council to react flexibly and to agree with the bulgarian government to postpone the closure of both units. the demand to close kozloduy is ridiculous at a time when we are so focused on competitiveness, security and sustainability of energy supply.
i'm going to talk about the euratom program. the european union will continue to support research in the fields of nuclear vaccination and radiation protection in the years ahead. a significant innovation is the much greater funding for fusion research activities. we are about to start the world's largest test fusion reactor, which is not only a european project but also a global one. the programme is ambitious in its design and is in line with the short, medium and long-term energy objectives of the european union. i hope that we in parliament will support the proposal drawn up by the itre committee, but not the new amendments which have appeared in the plenary. we agreed to improve the efficiency of the management of funds and to keep the european institutions regularly informed of the programme's implementation. we have placed nuclear energy among the sources that are important for a reliable and sustainable european energy supply. we emphasised the provision of adequate human resources and adequate and correct information to the public on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. i'm satisfied with the content, but not with the financial resources available. i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their participation in the creation of this program.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be here in this house to debate the 2007 budget at a time when the final result of a very long preparatory process is in sight. i am relieved that the budgetary authorities have reached an agreement on the 2007 budget. that is the task of the council and parliament. i would like to thank the members of this house for their cooperation over the last six months. the open dialogue between the budgetary authorities has been further strengthened, which makes it easier to reconcile our different views. i would like to thank in particular mr lewandowsk, chairman of the committee on budgets, and the rapporteurs mr elles and mr grech. in this context, i think it is appropriate to assess the results of the package as a whole from the council's point of view. the increase in the 2007 budget is fairly in line with member states' expectations and does not place an undue burden on taxpayers. fortunately, the council and parliament reached an agreement on a realistic amount of payment appropriations. the principle of strict budgetary discipline is thus now a central principle. this line will continue for years to come. the adoption of the amendment to the financial regulation as a whole is a significant achievement in a context of increasing pressure to improve the efficiency of financial management. as regards the financial regulation, i can say that the council has opened the written procedure this morning. the council regulation can therefore be adopted as late as wednesday, 13 december, after parliament has delivered its opinion on the matter. i would also like to hear the commission's commitment to the letter sent yesterday by the director-general for budgets on the rules for implementing the financial regulation. the council will continue to act responsibly in the years ahead. the new interinstitutional agreement, particularly as regards the cfsp appropriations, deserves to be applauded. the budgetary authority shows responsibility and realism in not using the flexibility instrument in 2007. this will provide a solid basis for budgetary practice in the coming years. budgets must be drawn up within the framework. the 2007 budget contains clear priorities. the promotion of competitiveness, the implementation and monitoring of enlargement-related agencies and the launch of the new generation of programmes are practical examples. however, this budgetary process also contains worrying prospects for the future. we have not made sufficient progress in improving the efficiency of the administration. the commission and parliament cannot avoid taking responsibility for making the union's administration more efficient. if the citizens of the member states are much more bitter about the reduction of posts, why are similar measures not adopted at union level - without anyone personally suffering? it is a question of the credibility of the whole of the eu's activities from the point of view of the citizens, and it is, after all, a question of a budget for which the citizens of the member states are responsible. it is important, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the council and parliament have reached a common agreement on the overall package within the framework of this budgetary process. i am particularly pleased that the budget to be adopted for 2007 will include sufficient margins in almost all headings.
member of the commission. mr president, today we are finalising our work and debates on the 2007 budget. this is very important for all of us because it is the first budget for the ‘new europe’ of 27 member states. it is the budget of a new financial framework; it is the budget of new financial regulation; it is the budget of a new financial legislative package, which we agreed to start fully from 1 january. so that means that this budget is not only a budget about figures, it is a budget of many things that we have achieved this year together with parliament and the council. in our negotiations today’s budget required a huge effort from all sides and huge efforts of compromise. the result was achieved when we met on 21 november in conciliation and finalised in a week. for this package, the commission always keeps its word and never changes the opinions reached in the conciliation negotiations. i would like to thank the whole team that negotiated on parliament’s side, as well as their staff, for helping us to find the solution, and all members, especially the rapporteurs of the committee on budgets, for helping us to achieve this package. i am talking not only about the package for the 2007 budget, but also the financial regulation package. i also want to thank the rapporteur who is not here now, mr pittella, who also helped us go through the 2006 budget implementation. i would like to say that today the discussion is very important as a final stage for thursday’s vote and i am very grateful to all who made this day happen. i wish you a good debate and a very fruitful and positive vote on the 2007 budget on thursday.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. although i have only a few minutes, i cannot help but express my sincere appreciation for the contribution made to this budget debate by mrs gräßle in her report. why would you do that? i believe that the european budget has at least three major problems. in the light of the lisbon strategy, it is: firstly, poorly structured; secondly, too small; and thirdly, too inefficient in its use. mrs gräßle's contribution addresses at least one, third, of these problems: inefficiency. the reform proposed in this report will make financial procedures less bureaucratic, easier to understand, simpler and, above all, user-friendly. in this respect, mrs gräßle is to be thanked for her contribution.
i will welcome both reports as a clear expression of the political will of the european parliament to strengthen the credibility of the european union. i see them as an expression of our responsibility for the future of the european union, but also as an expression of our shared responsibility for global development. i won't talk about the twins specifically, but i'm definitely in favor of cloning their philosophy. it seems to me rather paradoxical that we are talking about a crisis in the european union on the one hand, and on the other hand we are faced with a literal christmas event, as more and more european countries, as well as other countries, want to join the european family. our answer must not be that there are not enough seats at the european table or that we have a problem with the house's order. i am particularly pleased that the brok report makes it clear that close multilateral relations are not an alternative to full membership but an additional option for those who are currently away from full membership. i also support a clear attitude towards the countries of south-east europe. i would like to see all of them listed by name in the next report so that no one lands in the so-called remnant of countries (i think that's important for us). and for croatia and all the countries of the so-called thessaloniki process that croatia will follow, it should apply: when the candidate is ready, the european union must be ready. european ambition must be rewarded.
we have one discussion, and several very important issues. i will speak mainly on the proposal for a common european energy policy. the energy debate has finally become a priority. they deserve to be so, for the very quality, availability, price, and environmental impact of energy are what determine the well-being of mankind. europe is facing challenges in this area that can only be solved by acting together. that is why i support the idea of a common european energy policy. the question is how. how are we going to make it happen? the proposal for a single market therefore lacks the idea of gradual harmonisation and standardisation of administrative bodies and the unification of their powers. the european internal market requires strong national regulators, but we also need a european regulator to deal with cross-border problems. but the timing is important. i would also like to see more emphasis on the transport sector in the energy debate. promoting public transport is a measure that can be successfully implemented now. simplifying and harmonising procedures between countries for importing biofuels is also a measure that could be implemented in a relatively short time. the unpredictable energy situation and environmental problems force us to assess the comparative strengths and weaknesses of individual energy sources, including their impacts on other sectors such as the wood industry and agriculture. in this context, we must also make a realistic assessment of nuclear energy, which, with safe technology and a proper safety culture in society, is an important source of energy. and let's not confuse the peaceful use of nuclear energy with abuses. let's focus on institutional development that will make abuse impossible. it would be foolish to forgo, for example, the use of nuclear energy, the chemical industry, medical research, just because of possible abuses. this is also why europe is allocating part of its financial resources to improving the safety of nuclear power plants in third countries. finally, we already have a number of well-defined objectives in the field of energy. it's time to internationalize some of them. it is also time for us to start taking into account the strategic objectives we have set ourselves and to implement the legal requirements we have already adopted.
this was the last presidency of the european union of 25 member states, and i would like to add to the congratulations already expressed a congratulatory note on the culture of the presidency, because i think this is an important dimension and an important success of this presidency. i am pleased to see more unity, especially in the field of enlargement. here, a unity has been achieved between the three main institutions, which is not always the case. i am particularly pleased with the changes concerning the enlargement of the schengen area, which strengthens credibility and confidence within the union. i have one regret concerning the galileo supervisory authority, which could not yet be determined under the 2003 council decision. i hope that this will happen in accordance with this decision, which mandates the setting up of such seats in future in the new member states, and i also congratulate finland for clearly taking the side of those who have ratified the constitutional treaty by ratifying it.
