vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken. however, i feel obliged to repeat some of the information in more detail because some of those who have spoken have clearly shown that they do not know - i say this with the same frankness that you have shown me - what the commission is doing. i would like to reiterate - and i do not think there can be any misunderstanding - that we are talking about homophobia, which is a violation of human rights, and that is the only point on which i agree with mr agnoletto. homophobia is not a matter of defending certain categories of people, but is a fundamental problem of absolute rights, which can never be interpreted differently. i would like to make a few points, however. some people have asked - most recently mr bozkurt - whether or not monitoring of the protection of homosexuals and the fight against homophobia in the member states will be guaranteed. i can assure you, mr bozkurt, that this monitoring will not only be guaranteed, but has already been carried out! you should know the report drawn up a few weeks ago by a group of independent experts - which i have of course made available to parliament - which sets out for each country what behaviour is contrary to our common will to fight discrimination. that report has been formally transmitted to parliament and it is obvious that the reason why i, and not others, thought of taking such a country-by-country action was simply to put the facts at your disposal and at our disposal so that we can make our judgments. mr bozkurt, that monitoring will continue: all acts contrary to the spirit that animates us will be publicly reported. and governments too, who are called upon to take the first step and to remember what the national, and not just european, rules are on freedom of assembly, for example, can draw all the necessary conclusions from reading the relevant documents. transparent information is a priority. other speakers mentioned a promise by president barroso to adopt a cross-cutting directive - that is the term used - on strengthening and respecting rights in the context of non-discrimination. ladies and gentlemen, that too has been done! in 2005, the commission adopted a formal communication entitled 'non-discrimination and equal opportunities and rights for all' which sets out clearly what is expected in terms of ensuring greater protection of equal rights. in the communication to the european parliament we were obliged to remind everyone of what everyone knows, namely that when the commission makes a proposal based on article 13, the proposal - according to the statute, according to the treaties and not according to our interpretation - must be approved unanimously by the council. and today there is still no unanimity in the council, which i hope can be achieved. in any case, that 2005 communication states very clearly our intention to align the field of legal protection against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation, which is what some of you say we have not yet done, ladies and gentlemen. i now turn to another subject, the powers of the european commission. we believe that the european commission does not currently have the powers to deal with violations of a right which affects people deeply, as you rightly pointed out, mr cashman. but it is precisely to strengthen europe's powers that once again this commission and its speakers have proposed the establishment of a european agency for the protection of fundamental rights. if you accept that proposal and if there is an agreement in june, that agency, with the powers you propose - since it is for the european parliament to give an opinion on the matter - and perhaps with increased powers of interference - will be an instrument precisely designed to tackle discriminatory behaviour. it is a proposal which is already on the table, it only needs to be examined, and i have said and repeated that we will listen to parliament's requests to improve it. but this is only one of the tools available. then there are, of course, the ordinary instruments, such as article 226 of the treaty, the infringement procedures and also a wide-ranging case law of the court of justice, according to which, unfortunately, if actions are within the competence of the member states, the commission has no power to intervene. i hope that the agency will be set up soon, because that will perhaps be the first instrument to meet the need for such powers. mr bachelot, you speak of a right to diversity and i reply to you once again because we have already been active on this subject. you should know, i think, the program for an information campaign that is exactly called "for diversity". with this programme, which started at the end of 2003 and is still ongoing, we set out to collect positive information to explain that diversity is a value for europe. all the major european associations defending the rights of homosexuals participate in this programme. i believe that you are aware of all these activities and we intend to continue to work in this area, so i would like to dismiss the allegations that the commission has done nothing. we intend to continue our work on this and we intend to do so in a spirit of mutual frankness. i thought i would give you facts, not just ideas, about things that are already on the ground and that will improve our determined fight against homophobia.
the junilist believes that the eu is a union of values which should operate in accordance with the principle of equal value and rights for all people. this principle is fundamental to all our activities and is also enshrined in the un universal declaration of human rights. eu member states have ratified a number of legally binding international agreements based on this principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination. the right not to be subject to unfair discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is thus a fundamental human right. in the debate, this right is sometimes seen as a negotiable privilege. it is important that we always bear in mind the un declarations on human rights when we consider legislative proposals in this house. only in recent years have eu member states begun to seriously address the issue of homophobia. according to swedish statistics, the general citizen is at risk of 4-6% exposure to so-called unprovoked violence. among lesbian and bisexual women, the corresponding figures are between 15 and 24%. among gay and bisexual men, between 28-36% have experienced unprovoked violence. the fact that sexual orientation determines the degree to which a person is at risk of being subjected to violence is of course unacceptable. it is important that we as politicians make it clear that all people have equal rights and obligations. if we do not do this, we are questioning the un declarations and fundamental human rights.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner frattini, you are here. it is good that parliament is debating today the issue of trafficking in women and children. when the libe committee, of which i was rapporteur, adopted my opinion, it was by a very large majority in favour of a strong rejection of the abhorrent trafficking in human beings, but also in favour of seeing human trafficking as part of prostitution in the eu. what was important for libe was to set a target of halving trade within ten years and to make a great effort to give us parliamentarians better decision-making information, statistics and, of course, cooperation between the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary. we believe, i emphasize believe, that up to half of the victims of human trafficking may be children and minors. it was therefore important for libe to point out that 18 years must be made an age limit that cannot be broken. it is also natural for me that women and children who have been victims of trafficking should be given the right to stay or help to return. i also hope that in the future there will be cooperation with the tourist industry. countries and municipalities with large groups of tourists must make it clear that they do not accept trafficking in women and children. a natural continuation of the decision on the tourist industry which we are going to take here in strasbourg is what the social democratic women of the european union are protesting against, namely the rumors that thousands and thousands of women will be imported into prostitution for the football world cup this summer. i am happy to say that in sweden both our eu minister and the minister for gender equality, together with the president of the football association, have distanced themselves from this. i hope that all the speakers here today can give their support to this protest against trafficking in women. sports and sex trafficking and prostitution are not compatible. the committee on women's rights and gender equality wanted to go further than the committee on gender equality in its ambition to make prostitution in the eu visible. i intend to return to this question at a later date, for example when we are dealing with the communication from commissioner frattini. human trafficking cannot be reported off as christa prets believes. it requires courageous politicians, including in the eu, to take responsibility.
madam president, there are always three sides to the trafficking of human beings: the victims, the organised crime networks and the demand side. the customers, or ‘clients’, are predominantly males who feel that they have a right to buy women, or rather, girls. should we grant them this right without limits? a recent comprehensive study commissioned by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and conducted by the italian-based transcrime institute, shows that this restrictive view on the demand side has a decisive impact on the number of victims of trafficking. i am pleased to say that finland is about to adopt a law similar to the one in force in sweden, criminalising the buyers of sex. the prets report which we are now discussing is weak in that respect. i know it will take some time before a majority of member states have criminalised the buying of sex, but is it not time that we criminalise the buying of slaves and criminalise the men who buy the victims of trafficking? i will end this speech in the same way i have promised to every time i speak in this house: ceterum censeo prostitutionem esse dilendam – ‘i therefore maintain that prostitution must be abolished’.
mr president, i would like to thank you. peter mandelson, after the wto meeting you said that the outcome must be a good compromise because most people are dissatisfied. that is a very clever statement, and if it were a question of budgetary negotiations, a zero-sum game in which concessions actually cost money, you would be right. now the situation is just the opposite. in trade negotiations, you gain as much from the tariffs you remove yourself as from those you force others to remove. it's not a zero-sum game. even if the meeting didn't turn out to be the breakdown that many feared, i think we should be honest and say that it's a failure. the problems were deferred to the future and brought closer to a breakdown, and in important parts of the industrial and services sections i even think that the meeting produced minor deteriorations of the text. i see two reactions that are worrying. on the other hand, there is a reluctance to engage in multilateral negotiations, a desire to focus on regional and bilateral agreements instead. that would be a big mistake. they will never produce sufficient results to liberalize world trade in significant areas. it is an easy way of avoiding the dismantling of one's own protectionism. on the one hand, i hear the attitude that "we did our part in hong kong, it is the fault of others that we are standing still". i think that attitude is a recipe for failure. it is equally good to realize that success in negotiations is not based on the ability to point out the protectionism of others, it is only to see the speck in your brother's eye without noticing the beam in your own. instead, success is driven by the realization of the costs of its own protectionism. for europe, the hong kong meeting should be a wake-up call, not just to the obvious - that our agricultural protectionism is costing us far more important liberalisations of industrial goods and services. above all, we must join the united states, japan and others in recognising that the costs of our agricultural protectionism to our consumers and taxpayers are reason enough to abolish it. "free trade, one of the greatest blessings a government can bestow upon its people, is unpopular in almost all countries", said thomas babington as early as 1824. the wto meeting in hong kong shows that the same could have been said today. we all, as consumers and workers, are paying the price for the shortcomings of trade liberalisation around the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. stavros dimas, you have the most important task of all commissioners. if you fail, the commission fails. you are the guide for josé manuel barroso. it's time we realize that we're facing a climate chaos. you can't negotiate with mother earth. we are guests in her house and we must follow her rules. that is why we must reduce emissions quickly. we have to impose carbon taxes on products from countries that do not comply with kyoto. it would create pressure for better policies in the us and australia. countries that don't take responsibility for the climate should not be allowed to parasitize our planet. the current economic and trade policies are failing and creating climate chaos and destruction instead of happiness and prosperity. it's urgent to settle this. we need trade rules that follow the rules of the earth, not short-term lobbyists. you can't sue against the climate chaos. we need carbon taxes on imports, air taxes, better regulations on car emissions, better transport policy and better trade policy. then we can take care of our land first.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are several good reasons for rejecting the port directive. firstly, this is a matter for each member state to decide in accordance with the eu's subsidiarity principle. it is up to the member states to decide on this type of issue. our basic view is that swedish rules should apply on swedish territory. secondly, the process which has led to the return of the ports directive to the agenda is undemocratic. the european parliament rejected an identical proposal from the commission less than a year ago. thirdly, the operators concerned by this directive are largely opposed to it. there is now a well-functioning competition between europe's ports. the port directive distorts competition by allowing the shipping companies' own staff to take over the loading and unloading of cargo. who really wants this directive? the main proponent is the commission, which wants to push through this legislation at all costs. the swedish junilista will say no to this legislative proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a mystery to me that the european commission has put forward this proposal again. we hear the great resistance it is facing and commissioner jacques barrot now has an opportunity to show that the eu is keeping pace with the citizens by withdrawing this proposal. i think there are three arguments for doing that. first of all, we do not need the directive. it works well in many ports in europe - i know this from my own country, sweden, among others. the ports are developing and there are many flexible solutions. what we need instead is a directive on competition between ports, something which we in the socialist group have also pointed out. this commission proposal is a european central bank. it is not the liberalisation of ports that is being encouraged. it is a european central regulation which we do not need because it does not lead to the development of ports, but which on the contrary can hamper their development. the european commission has therefore unfortunately not put forward this proposal out of concern for ports and transport. these central rules make port operations more complex. the development of ports and transport systems will be more difficult, as ports are key transport nodes and combined terminals that must function well for the entire transport system to do so. let regional and local actors develop the ports, that is the best. finally, this port directive would be bad for the employees of ports. it is the port workers who would pay the price for the central regulation proposed by the commission. it is likely that many jobs would be lost and a considerable amount of activity would be transferred to the recruitment industry, with the result that conditions and security for employees would be worse. it is for many good reasons that i am therefore proposing that parliament reject this proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fundamental question in this debate is whether competition and new services are good in this area as in all other areas. it is about whether things are worse for consumers, workers and businesses if you have competition. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive approach to the problem of the environment, and that is why we are voting against the report. we can see from the european societies that where competition and new business have been opened up, this has led to the development of services, the development of activities, lower prices and better service to the consumer. we have seen it in telecommunications, in aviation, in area after area, and we have heard the same warning argument before these deregulations have been implemented. i remember when telecommunications deregulation was once discussed, how it was seriously claimed that telephony would not be possible and that those working in that industry would lose their jobs. in fact, more jobs have been created. in the port area, which is so crucial for trade and development within the union, it is self-evident that the dynamics of increased market entry and competition both between and within ports will lead to the development of services. it is crucial not only for the better functioning of port operations as such but also for the better functioning of shipping, transport and trade. it is about the whole european goods flow, but also about the opportunities for new regions to emerge new ports and new structures in our economy. if we want competition, we will also see new developments and change. if you say that everything is perfect as it is today, that our ports all over europe are working just as they should, then nobody has to be afraid of competition. if we get new businesses and new opportunities, things will happen. that is why the fundamental question is whether we want to see a more dynamic flow of goods in europe. i want to.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen citizenship of the union by decoupling it from national citizenship and by requiring harmonised rules for the granting of national citizenship. on the contrary, we believe that citizenship is one of the cornerstones of the sovereignty of the nation states, and that each member state must be free to decide on it independently. there may be arguments for reforming the rules on the acquisition of citizenship after a long period of permanent residence in the country, the right to vote and to stand for election in municipal, regional and national elections. however, the question of citizenship in the member states is exclusively a matter for the countries concerned in accordance with their own legislation. it is for each member state to determine the conditions for the acquisition and loss of nationality and the effects of nationality. the european union has no competence in this respect. citizenship of the union is thus subordinate to national citizenship and is thus to be defined by national laws on citizenship. the report also contains a number of articles on the introduction of a european tax, the uniform european party lists for european parliament elections, the importance of an eu constitution for strengthening european cohesion and common starting points for the integration of the european dimension in the curricula of all schools.
in writing. it is a human right to be able to participate actively in the democratic process and it is something we are working hard to make real for everyone. but the eu's use of this as a lever to strengthen its power ambitions to take control of the democratic structures of its members is not justifiable.
in writing. i voted against the alde group on paragraph 46 concerning criminalizing the clients who deliberately exploit persons in a situation of coercion. whereas the alde group line was to vote no to this i believe that people that deliberately buy women/girls who are forced into prostitution should be seen as committing a crime similar to the crime of buying stolen goods - i.e. fencing. and i think even the member states that today are against criminalizing the buying of sex could introduce this as a criminal offence.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the report on trafficking in women and children. we believe that the security of citizens is best protected by joint action against crossborder crime, in particular crime against the fundamental freedoms and rights of persons and against human dignity. the moderate delegation also wishes to emphasise that, in order to give legal effect to the demands made and thus highlight the importance of the issue, the issue of trafficking should be dealt with in the european parliament's committee on legal affairs and not in the committee on women's rights. we are opposed to proposals in the report which concern the areas of competence of the member states, such as the organisation of the police.
in writing. the own-initiative report deals with important issues and the junilista supports many of the basic ideas which permeate the report. sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings must be combated. furthermore, the serious crime that often follows from cross-border trafficking in human beings cannot be ignored. it is therefore of the utmost importance to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information within the eu. the junilista group, however, believes that each member state must be allowed to choose its own method and approach, including in these matters. the junilista therefore chooses to vote against the own-initiative report.
in writing. combating trafficking in human beings and the demand for these services, i.e. sex workers, are interrelated, but criminalising this type of crime at eu level could lead to penalties that are not adapted to the internal logic of national systems and could also lead to the criminalisation of sex workers being banned.
mr president, the recent crisis between russia and ukraine over gas supply has shown that it is more important than ever to have a european energy market that is less dependent on imports. this will provide not only enormous opportunities for the european energy industry, including renewables, but also a window of opportunity for tackling climate change, boosting growth and creating new jobs. in order to achieve this we want more transparency, better regulation, a renovated and functioning grid, a european energy strategy, debate on self-sufficiency and solidarity between member states, and rules that enable consumers to decide on their own consumption in a workable way. we therefore welcome the green paper as well as the presidency’s programme. there is much to be done, but i think we can do it.
i thank the commissioner for his reply and i am pleased that the commission will cooperate with the employment committee as we now deal with the issue in an own-initiative report introduced on the posting directive. it has become clear - not least from the messages sent by the commission about the various signals in the vaxholm case - that the posting directive is not at all as clear as one might wish. the idea is that posted workers should be able to work under conditions that are broadly similar to those of the country in which they are posted. i ask the question: is this directive adapted to all labour market models in the eu or only to those labour market models which have legislation and universally recognised collective agreements? do you think it is in keeping with the scandinavian model of non-universal collective agreements, where each company is negotiated with? or is a change needed that also includes the labour market model?
member of the commission. the commission’s interpretation of the ruling of the ecj on the marks & spencer case is fully in compliance with the ecj’s ruling. the problem in that case was that while united kingdom law permits loss relief inside the united kingdom market, the same is not permitted in the case of other companies or branches of marks & spencer in different member states – one in germany and one in belgium. the ecj ruling, in compliance with the philosophy of the internal market, was in favour of marks & spencer and the commission fully supported that. the commission wants to study carefully the budgetary consequences of such rulings and try to take the initiative to have better coordination within the tax policy of the member states: if not harmonisation, at least coordination is needed in order to avoid such problems. to conclude, i want to refer to the first question concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base, which would solve the problem. the difficulty is that, as i have already said, in the best case, if everything goes smoothly and well, we will come up with the legislative proposal no earlier than 2008, so we still have two years in which to provide some temporary solution.
member of the commission. the sector study referred to by the honourable member was commissioned by the commission in 2004 from wik consult in order to assist ongoing work on the gradual opening-up to competition of the european postal market. the views expressed in the study are those of the consultant. the study is merely one of several elements that the commission is considering in looking at various options and their possible consequences. in addition to the regular consultation with stakeholders and notably an online public consultation currently under way, the study actually serves as a platform to engage in a transparent and open debate on the conditions for enabling the further phasing-in of competition in the postal market. it is the understanding of the commission that the approach taken by the consultancy on the issue of the uniform tariff and the frequency of delivery was an attempt to give more flexibility to the public postal operator in order to sustain a viable and efficient universal service in the long term. the current postal directive 97/67/ec, as amended by directive 2002/39/ec, does not impose a uniform tariff but requires a minimum frequency of delivery of five days a week. the commission can assure the honourable member that on all aspects of the postal reform in the european union, including both the issues mentioned, it will try its best to strike the right balance between the necessary degree of harmonisation at eu level and those conditions to be fixed at member state level, which would reflect the very different characteristics of each national postal market.
thank you, commissioner. i would like to have an answer to my final question, namely whether the consequences for the people living in the slums have been considered. this may be particularly relevant for us in the nordic countries, where there are many miles between different households and villages.
member of the commission. the point raised by the honourable member will form part of our thinking in whatever proposals are put forward by the end of 2006. and, yes, i am very conscious of the importance of a universal service and particularly the importance of such a service to rural parts of europe.
member of the commission. article 23 of the proposal for a directive on services in the internal market does, as the honourable member says in her question, codify existing rights to patient mobility. the case law of the court of justice has established that, subject to certain conditions, patients have the right to have the cost of healthcare received in other member states assumed by the social security system in their own member state. patients are, without prior authorisation, entitled to get reimbursement for non-hospital care received in other member states. for hospital care, prior authorisation may be required before a patient can go abroad to receive health care. authorisations must be granted when the necessary care cannot be given in the patient’s member state within a medically justifiable time limit. before the proposal for a services directive was tabled, the commission carried out a study on the implementation of the rights of patients in the member states. the conclusion was that ‘european citizens are encountering unjustified or disproportionate obstacles when they apply for reimbursement, from their member state of residence, of costs for non-hospital treatment incurred in another member state, or for authorisation for assumption of the costs in the case of hospital treatment’. for an individual citizen, the right to receive treatment in other member states and to have the cost covered by his or her own social security system is probably one of the most important benefits of the internal market. these are the reasons for the commission to propose the inclusion of health services in the scope of the services directive and for proposing a specific provision on the assumption of health care costs incurred in other member states. the commission has also been actively involved in the work of the high-level group on cross-border healthcare and patient mobility with a view to establishing how best the framework for guaranteeing and promoting patient rights in the single market can be developed. this work has shown the clear benefits of cooperation between member states on health and healthcare related issues, of which the reimbursement of costs is just one aspect. a number of member states are concerned about the effects cross-border care and patient mobility may have on their national health budgets. in the absence of a clear legal framework, we will continue to be confronted with developing ecj case law. pending the vote in this house on the first reading of the proposed services directive, it would be inappropriate to speculate on the position on certain articles, but i can confirm that where member states impose disproportionate or unjustified restrictions, the commission will act, including by launching infringement procedures.
member of the commission. as i said in my reply, one of the reasons for the inclusion of health services in the scope of the services directive was to deal with some of the issues raised by the honourable member. however, as the honourable member will be aware, the debate on the services directive in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and in other committees has thrown up a number of other issues, and the internal market committee voted in a particular direction. at next month’s part-session, the first reading of the services directive will come before the house and amendments will be debated. therefore, there are many conflicting viewpoints among parliamentarians on this issue and there are conflicting viewpoints among member state governments on the scope of the services directive to include healthcare costs. as i have said on this issue and on any others relating to the services directive, i remain open to hearing the concerns and opinions of all stakeholders.
i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for the excellent reply to zuzana roithová and wonder if the commission could help to create an understanding of these issues by providing evidence to show the citizens that there is an area of real added value here, that is to say that we can get better specialist healthcare, that patients could get better care of higher quality, sometimes at lower cost but above all in a more efficient way, that crossborder care is an added value for the citizens. i am quite convinced that the commission could produce a document to help us. i wonder what the commissioner thinks about helping to have a better debate on these issues.
i would like to put a question to the commission. the european parliament has today adopted, almost unanimously, a very powerful report on trafficking in human beings. we have been very much involved in this issue and have also raised it in our contacts with ukraine. with today's decision, parliament is moving forward with its positions. i would like the commission to pay particular attention to this issue, which has received incredible support here today in the european parliament.
thank you, commissioner. i ask this question precisely because colombia is becoming the second largest refugee disaster we have. what is different about colombia compared to other countries is that there is still a land divide between local and regional landowners. that is why there is still an opportunity to help the local people and to ensure that they keep their land, which will be the key when we try to resolve this conflict. i am very grateful for your reply and i hope, of course, that we will jointly make progress in these peace initiatives that the eu is taking.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the united left group supports all the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment to this regulation on the application of the aarhus convention by the eu. two points are of particular importance to us. firstly, it is essential that the decision be comprehensive so that projects financed by the european union are also covered by the regulatory framework. the european investment bank must also be subject to the rules. over the years, the eib has been widely criticised for its approach to environmental issues, for its lack of environmental consideration and for its extreme closeness. secondly, we want environmental organisations to have a real right to go to court when environmental rules are not being respected. we are therefore opposed to any restriction of this right, such as that proposed by the rapporteur in amendments nos 28 and 30. in practice, this would mean that many of the most important national environmental movements would be excluded from the possibility of going to court, and that is unacceptable to us.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is a very tangible and concrete background to this directive which we are now going to decide on. these are the major disasters caused by the collapse of mining dams a few years ago, particularly in romania and spain. these were environmental disasters that had enormous consequences for the surrounding environment, and also poisoned the water systems. in addition to this, we have a constant environmental problem, with waste from existing and old plants leaching heavy metals and other toxic substances into our environment. this calls for a specific directive to regulate waste from the mining and other extractive industries. when we look at the proposal that the commission once put forward a few years ago and at what we are going to decide on tomorrow, there are significant differences. parliament has certainly contributed to making this directive better and stronger. a number of parliament's amendments were adopted at first reading and more are being added to this reading. i would like to highlight some specific points in this report which are particularly important. firstly, the creation of dust safety rules to prevent such disasters in the future. the high concentration of cyanide used in romania is also prohibited by this directive. there will be clear rules on permits and how they are to be issued, and it will be possible to see which environmental problems can be addressed. in addition, an absolute obligation to respect the water directive is implemented, which means that the water status must not be degraded. in addition, there are rules to restore the site where the mining takes place. the time of leaving behind waste and destroyed sites shall end with this directive. to this end, a financial guarantee is introduced, to which companies must commit funds to restore the site where they have mined. as regards the new member states, especially romania but also bulgaria, we have reached a declaration from these countries during the conciliation process in which they undertake not to seek exemptions but to respect all the rules of the directive. this is important, not least because romania has significant problems in this area. as regards historical waste, member states are required to carry out an inventory, which means that they must look for historical waste which causes environmental problems. overall, the environmental situation in the union will improve significantly. the arguments against this have been mainly economic, that it costs companies. but it's important to realize that environmental costs, restoring the environment, are part of the cost of production and they should be. if they are not, then the unserious players benefit. this directive is in favour of the mining industry which is serious and takes responsibility for its environmental policy. this directive will also promote the development of new environmental technologies that will enable the recycling of historical waste, and this offers an opportunity for european industry in this field. last but not least, and most importantly, it will benefit the environment and the health of those living in these areas. but of course this directive is not perfect, directives are very rarely perfect. there are some things i'd like to see even stronger. the rules for non-hazardous waste are weaker than they should be. the reason for this is that the council made deteriorations at first reading. i did not bring the decision i wanted from this parliament to negotiate these deteriorations away. as regards waste facilities, the definition is too weak and too generous to industry, which risks creating certain loopholes. as regards historical waste, there are no clear requirements for action against it. however, it is important to note that other union environmental legislation, in particular the water framework directive, imposes an absolute obligation to address cases where historical waste is seen to lead to a deterioration in the status of water. this means that the directive as a whole is still good. we can be satisfied with the work we have accomplished during these years. finally, i would also like to thank those with whom i have worked, the shadow rapporteurs of the various groups with whom i have had a good cooperation. i would like to thank the european commission officials who have been excellent partners this time and the presidency for the very good conciliation. it has been easy to work with them and to find concrete solutions to the various problems we faced.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. "it takes a whole new way of thinking to solve the problems we have created with the old way of thinking", said albert einstein, whom we have discussed before. i therefore have a few specific questions. what concrete action does the presidency intend to take in favour of smes? you say you're going to create jobs through energy policy. can you explain how? will you support voluntary or mandatory targets for alternative energy and biomass? that is also a very important question. as you know, it's easier to fight for your principles than to live up to them. you talk a lot about the environment and consumer power. i would therefore like to ask you, with regard to the chemicals directive: will you fight for the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and improve the council agreement reached in december? will you add the right of the consumer to know what dangerous chemicals are in the product? finally, i would like to thank you for a very good meeting in vienna last week and wish you good luck with the presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would say to the president of the council and the president of the commission: let us stop talking about the lisbon process as a process in itself. let us instead talk about what we have done and what we are going to do to achieve its requirements and its objectives, namely to achieve european competitiveness. otherwise all references to the lisbon process will become an alibi for what is not being done. let's talk about what we're actually gonna do. implement the services directive. this is the most concrete thing we can do to strengthen europe's competitiveness. make sure that it is based on respect for the diversity of europe, taking advantage of the competitiveness of each country. it is not only the most important measure to strengthen european competitiveness, it is also the most important thing we can do to achieve the reunification of europe and to ensure that all european countries can grow and meet across borders. ensure that the long-term budget in the negotiations with parliament is characterised by an additional priority for research and development. it is one of the individual actions we can take that will make the greatest contribution to europe's becoming a leading knowledge society. to ensure that europe can act with unity and strength in its policy towards iran, which is today a country pursuing a policy which is not acceptable to the international community or in accordance with the requirements that must be imposed on each country. a country which threatens to annihilate another country, which covertly develops nuclear fuel technology and which supports terrorism must be met by a coherent and common european policy in alliance with our international partners. these are essentially european data which show why european cooperation is needed. the council and the commission have a major responsibility to ensure that policy is marked by concrete action to implement this.
in writing. we are seeking to reach an agreement with the council on a new interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. the negotiations are based on the european parliament's resolution of 8 june 2005 on the political challenges and budgetary means in an enlarged union 2007-13. we therefore support the european parliament's resolution on the european council's common position of 15 and 16 december 2005. however, we cannot support the idea of an improved european dimension in the eu's agricultural policy. we look forward to the review of eu expenditure and revenue in 2008 and hope that it will lead to a more modern structure of the eu budget and reduced expenditure on the cap.
in writing. we are not satisfied with the agreement reached in the council on 16 december. we want to reduce expenditure on agricultural policy and the structural funds and to increase the resources for research and development and for the common foreign and security policy. parliament has a say in the financial perspective and has announced that it will push its own budget line very hard. we do not support the expansionary budget line which parliament is advocating, but we do support other proposals such as increasing the appropriations for research and development. in view of this, we abstained in the final vote on the resolution and did not vote against it because we can support parts of parliament's proposal.
in writing. i have today chosen to abstain when the european parliament voted on its resolution on the financial perspective. in the resolution, the european parliament rejects the council's agreement. i am very disappointed, to be sure, by the council's agreement, which means that my priority areas will receive less resources than the commission has proposed. this applies to areas such as research, innovation, measures to combat crossborder crime, the structural funds to help smes and environmental measures. but the council has been taking a disgraceful long time and i do not want to delay this process any further. it is important that we secure the funding of projects and programmes for the years 2007-2013 so that they do not have to be cancelled because of uncertainty and lack of co-financing. this is important not least for the new ten member states. that is why i have decided not to stop the financial perspective that has now been agreed.
in writing. the resolution rejects the council's agreement on the financial perspective. however, i think it is unwise for the european parliament to reject the proposal and have therefore chosen to abstain. the road to council agreement has been long and difficult and it would have been problematic if the council had not finally succeeded in reaching agreement on the matter. the european parliament certainly has a say in this matter and has the right to reject the council's proposal, but it would be unfortunate if the long-term budget did not come into being because of power games between the institutions. parliament must now take up its responsibilities and, together with the council, do its utmost to arrive at a long-term budget. i think it is good that the council agreed on the financial perspective and that the level of expenditure was not too high, but at the same time i am critical of much of the content of the budget. for example, the budget has the wrong profile, with too much money being spent on agriculture and regional aid. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. that is why i do not support parliament's position. a firm prioritisation of eu resources is crucial to bringing about the changes europe needs.
in writing. of course, the eu should not have a single bathing water quality directive. we have voted in favour of the report because parliament has listened to our criticisms and is reducing the regulation we have now. the report also strongly rejects the proposals for further regulation which were put forward when parliament last dealt with the matter. it should be noted that the previous proposal clearly showed the difficulty of detailed rules which would apply in completely different circumstances. in countries with long coasts, large water areas, short bathing seasons, low water temperatures and low population density, requirements should be different from those in countries with densely populated beaches where many people travel to bathe in warm water for long periods of time. we moderates are glad that our criticism has been heard.
in writing. i have today voted in favour of the conciliation committee's joint text for a european parliament and council directive on bathing water quality management. my point of departure is that this is a matter of subsidiarity, that is to say, it should be dealt with at local or regional level in this case. bathing water is a matter of concern for many swedish municipalities, which have a huge number of bathing sites. it is therefore important that the directive does not burden municipalities with more bureaucracy. the reason i have said yes, after all, is that this directive is a great improvement on the 1976 bathing water directive which is still in force. it is a simplification and an improvement in health and the environment. a narrower but more coherent eu needs to consider whether issues such as this should not be brought back to the member states to be dealt with at national or local/regional level.
in writing. this report deals with an issue which should not be on the eu agenda. of course, it is not possible to compare the conditions and conditions of bathing in the mediterranean sea with those of thousands of lakes in countries such as sweden and finland. the bathing water directive is an example of the eu's rarely applying either the principle of subsidiarity or the principle of proportionality in practice. this is a regrettable fact. the proposal resulting from the conciliation procedure has certain advantages over the current directive. for example, the number of criteria to be applied by the member states is reduced. at the same time, new absurd demands are being made, such as the introduction of eu-harmonised signs at bathing sites in the eu. we are confident that the member states can deal with bathing water quality issues independently. we are therefore opposed in principle to the bathing water directive and have voted against the compromise reached by the conciliation committee.
in writing. i have voted in favour of the conciliation committee's joint text for a european parliament and council directive on bathing water quality management. in principle, i do not think that bathing water quality is an issue that should be dealt with at eu level, but by member states at national or local level. the reason for my vote in favour is that the proposal contains significant simplifications of an earlier 1976 directive on bathing water quality. voting in favour of this proposal is part of the fight to simplify eu legislation. at the same time, of course, it also means changes in the right direction in terms of health and the environment. to make the eu more effective and proactive in the major crossborder issues, it is necessary to delegate certain policies to the member states. this is one of those questions, it must be closer to the citizens.
in writing. we believe that the aarhus convention is a valuable legal instrument to guarantee public access to environmental information and participation in decision-making processes. the purpose of the convention is therefore positive. we have voted against amendment no 25. in principle, we believe that the action should be brought before a national court applying the law in force.
in writing. the ports directive is an example of redundant eu legislation. we voted against the report and we are in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal. we chose to support the amendments which seek to limit the scope of the directive. we therefore voted in favour of proposals to exclude piloting services and self-handling from the scope of the directive. we are critical of the ports directive for several reasons: the ports directive takes neither the subsidiarity nor the proportionality principle into account. political decisions on loading, unloading and self-handling shall be taken at national level; the proposal for a directive means that staff performing the same job can belong to different trade union organisations. this creates disruption and disrupts the order and peace of the industry; the harbour directive will hardly promote competition. the ports are companies that compete with each other. the ports directive is an attempt to force them to accept that other companies can take over parts of their business against their will. it's not reasonable. nobody would think of forcing volvo to accept subcontractors they don't want. competition between port operators is positive and leads to more efficient solutions. if a large company in another industry is not efficient and customer friendly, it will be outcompeted. this is also the case in the companies that make up europe's ports.
in writing. we support the development of afghanistan towards peace, stability and democracy after the fall of the taliban regime. but at the same time we are concerned about the eu's increasingly strong military role in the country. afghanistan is not part of the eu's immediate neighbourhood, and therefore it is not the eu's task to place troops in the country. instead, it is the task of individual countries/defence organisations under a un mandate. the world organization should be better equipped to take military action in trouble spots around the world. in view of the above, we abstain from voting on the final resolution, but we support the proposals on the protection of human rights.
in writing. global climate change is a major problem that has good reason to be addressed at international level. the commission is also proposing that the eu should be able to take on board the new eu-wide framework for the protection of the environment and the environment. this type of call can be made by the respective national government independently. we also believe that the member states should be able to take a national position in the context of negotiations on international climate issues. however, we assume that all parties will comply with the agreements reached. we are critical of the proposal to establish a communication strategy at eu level to inform citizens about climate issues. eu cooperation is based on trust between member states. we are convinced that the member states are capable of taking the necessary measures to ensure that the public has access to appropriate information on climate issues. the position expressed in this explanation of vote is our position of principle on this matter. the explanation of vote is thus relevant to future cases of a similar nature.
in writing. this report addresses a number of important issues in the field of sustainable development. the junilist believes that there are good reasons for eu cooperation on cross-border environmental issues. the report does, however, address a number of key policy areas which should be outside the eu's remit. examples include: what investments are to be made in public transport and road network expansion in the member states; debt cancellations to developing countries; environmental taxes at eu level; whether the environment should be a subject of primary education in member states' schools; taxation of labour in the member states; employment and social inclusion we are strongly critical of the fact that the eu institutions have a greedy appetite for increased influence. we have therefore voted against the whole, but we are in favour of individual paragraphs, especially those dealing with genuinely transnational environmental problems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the french and dutch referendums have led to the defeat of the draft constitution. if there can be no doubt about it. two countries have voted no in referendums, with large majorities and high turnout. the fact that the european political establishment is now trying to explain away this is a democratic scandal. politicians and high officials are now openly discussing how to circumvent these currency moves. they have the audacity to interpret the votes as a dissatisfaction with the incumbent governments of both countries. they start counting the number of countries that have said yes, even though it's clear that all countries have to agree to the proposal. the gap between the political elite and the people in eu affairs has rarely been so clear. all indications are that a 'no' vote would have been taken in germany too if there had been a referendum there. the same is true of britain, austria, sweden, denmark and perhaps more. but the eu's power elite shamelessly speaks of the severe setbacks suffered last year. i would point out that democratic elections are only a setback for those who have lost it because they lack popular support. this cannot be circumvented.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. chechnya is a bleeding wound on our continent with hundreds of thousands of dead, maimed, thousands of traumatised children, orphans. a terrible refugee crisis, a human tragedy in every sense of the word. horrendous abuses are being committed by both military and paramilitary forces and no one has been brought to justice or held accountable. both sides are responsible for the abuses, but the civilians of chechnya have suffered in an unreasonable way. this means that the international community and we in the eu have an obligation, a duty to intervene and we cannot remain indifferent. we must condemn the abuses and demand that russia step up its efforts to find a peaceful solution to the issue and also that we in the eu, in addition to what is already being done, which is very good, may eventually also be able to help with mediation, reconstruction and further rehabilitation. the election was a success, after all. but the situation is so fragile and there is so much left to do. we must identify the democratic forces in chechnya and try to open a dialogue, because negotiation is the only way forward. of course we condemn the terrorism of the chechen separatists and the abhorrent events in, for example, beslan and the theatre in moscow can never be condemned enough. if we are to enter into negotiations, the developments in russia are very worrying, as both the commissioner and the president of the council have mentioned. legislation that makes it difficult for ngos to work, but also the gradual restriction of the media, makes it difficult to initiate a dialogue. it's hard to criticize and it's hard to make any progress. it is gratifying that the president of the council is so clear in his criticism of russia. we have long called here in parliament for a more coherent strategy for russia. unfortunately, we know that energy needs, among other things, mean that too many of the individual member states continue to be hypocritical in their treatment of human rights and the violations of the rule of law in our great neighbour. chechnya must always be on the agenda, we owe it to the chechen people, to the russian people and to ourselves for our credibility. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as has been said here, the elections in chechnya are marked by significant flaws and errors, there is no doubt about that. at the same time, they are a step forward. there is now an opportunity to build political institutions in chechnya with a little more credibility. what is very clear after all these years of atrocities and war is that there is no armed solution to the conflict in chechnya. it is a myth that the russian authorities believe that they can crush all resistance in chechnya. it requires a political process and negotiations in the end. it is self-evident for all of us to condemn these heinous acts of terrorism committed by chechen separatists. it is also important to note that russia has in fact also pursued a policy of terror against parts of the chechen population. it has committed enormous abuses without anyone being held accountable. this is something that directly plays into the hands of the most extreme forces in chechnya. only when it is over will there be an opportunity for dialogue and a peaceful solution.
thank you, mr. secretary of state, for your answer. i'm very pleased that you have such an established contact. i think it is necessary because colombia is becoming one of the world's largest refugee disaster areas, with up to three million people reported to have been displaced and forced to leave their homes. that is why i wonder whether what we are doing now in the eu is enough, or whether there is more we can do to push this forward. it is also, as you say, about the problems of drugs and corruption, but also about what is happening with regard to land changes and the fact that people will want to exploit the palm oil which is so valuable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a very good and important report on one of the most important issues for the future of the european union. what relations should we have with our neighbouring countries? how can we strengthen cooperation on issues where we must cooperate, such as the fight against terrorism, environmental problems, security and energy? how can we help to strengthen the rule of law and democracy in the countries around us? i believe that we should not be defining the borders of europe at the moment. the countries of europe that can, will and meet all the criteria should be given a clear membership perspective. we have seen what this has meant for the transformation of our new member states. eu membership has worked for them like a whip and a carrot and it has been very, very important in the transformation there. this means a great deal for the democratization and reform process in the balkans and in turkey. that is why i believe that we should give ukraine a membership perspective. of course, the eu cannot be just any size, and then neighbourhood policy can be an option, but then it must be an attractive alternative to membership. the message from parliament is clear on this point. we need to further define and define what we are going to do with the policy. what are our priorities? can we solve the institutional issues that will arise with these countries? there is a need for common values and common policies. furthermore, cooperation agreements must be tailored to each individual need. as has been pointed out, countries look very different. the focus must be on the democratic issues. the transition fund or the democracy fund proposed by charles tannock is a very good idea. i would like to thank mr tannock again for a very good report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? first of all, i would like to say that the report by charles tannock on the european neighbourhood policy is a document which i fully support and i can only congratulate him on the excellent work he has done. his report shows that he is well acquainted with the history of europe and the conditions that prevail today. only those who know the past can also answer the challenges of tomorrow. however, the conditions for his work have not always been easy. the european neighbourhood policy now covers both european countries eligible to apply for membership and to become members of the eu, and non-european countries that cannot become members of the eu. in my personal opinion, the neighbourhood policy should only apply to countries neighbouring europe. european countries seeking membership should not be seen as neighbours but as potential eu members and should see a clear eu perspective. moreover, the debate on these issues has been fluctuating considerably in recent times. when we talk about the european neighbourhood policy, we are talking about a long-term perspective. a short-term perspective is often lacking. does this mean that opinion both inside and outside parliament has changed, or do we lack political courage? for example, a year ago the opinion on ukraine was that ukraine had a very clear eu perspective and was without any doubt part of the european family. we all remember the many orange scarves that were seen in this plenary in support of the democratization process in ukraine. if the question of the status of the negotiations for ukraine's membership had been raised then, i am quite convinced that there would not have been so many who would have opposed this. today the situation is different. we are still telling ukraine that we want it to be a member, but we are stressing that it will take time and that there should be no rush. the situation in belarus, to mention another state, is dictatorial and far from satisfactory, and their road to eventual eu membership is long. nevertheless, i believe that, alongside calls for democratization, we should send clear signals that belarus, when it becomes democratic, will also have a place in the european family. what i am looking for in neighbourhood policy and in the european debate in general is vision and optimism. without optimism and a clear determination about what we want to achieve and what europe we want tomorrow, we will not be able to meet today's challenges.
in writing. small businesses are crucial for job creation in the member states and thus for the future development of europe. however, this is not a cross-border issue, but on the contrary it must be up to each member state how it wants to shape its small business policy. institutional competition, where member states can find good solutions independently without being locked into rigid eu regulations, is crucial for the development of small businesses. that is why we believe that the eu is not the solution to creating a small business-friendly environment. the report notes that obstacles to the development of smes include access to credit, complex tax systems and administrative procedures for accessing structural and development funds. the member states should do more to simplify for small businesses and there are concerns about the wide disparities in entrepreneurship training and the encouragement of entrepreneurship in schools. it is also argued that the charter should have the force of law and be binding, as this would increase the involvement of the member states. the idea that a european charter and annual reports would be the solution is just another example of the eu's lack of reality anchoring. the junilista has therefore voted against the report.
in writing. we support a thorough reform of the sugar sector in the eu. it is not reasonable to keep a non-competitive market alive by means of extensive protectionism and substantial financial support. the european parliament is trying to block the commission's reform proposals. the european parliament wants the reform to be implemented over a longer period of time, price reductions to be limited, restructuring aid to be increased and specific support to be granted to production in areas with 'structural climatic conditions'. the consequence is that the necessary structural adjustments are being postponed. overall, the commission's reform proposals are more far-reaching. we have therefore voted against the european parliament's proposal.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the debate on european union. we think the report is good in general, but we would like to stress that it is not the task of the european institutions to convince citizens of what changes are necessary or good. opinion-forming and political debate shall be based on the involvement of actors in democratic society, individuals, political parties and other voluntary associations.
in writing. i voted for paragraph 27, but i do not agree with the second sentence of the paragraph. the public need not be reassured, they can think for themselves and decide what they think of the constitution.
in writing. the junilist generally supports the eu's neighbourhood policy as it aims to strengthen democracy and develop trade and prosperity in countries in the union's neighbourhood. that is why we shall vote in favour of the report at the final vote. we believe that the instruments of the neighbourhood policy must be flexible and cost-effective. there must be clear requirements for the follow-up of the results. neighbourhood policy should be limited to issues of cooperation on trade and democracy and human rights. it should not be used, as it is today, to extend the eu's sphere of interest through the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. we voted for amendment no 19. we interpret the concept of 'guaranteed minimum income' in the above-mentioned amendment as meaning a guaranteed decent standard of living, as we are in favour of a guaranteed decent standard of living but against the introduction of state-relegated minimum wages.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. haven't the sudanese people suffered long enough? first you manage to survive and escape from a war, and then you're persecuted in egypt for peacefully trying to contact the un. egypt replaced many of its senior officials and ministers at the end of last year, and now it's time for them to replace their police chiefs. we can never accept that countries with which we cooperate so much allow police forces to go wild on civilians in this way. i hope that we can work very well with the unhcr to get clarity on everything that happened in this situation. finally, i would like to remind you that my own country, for example, with the help of the cia, has sent so-called terrorist suspects to egypt for torture. we have to stop doing that ourselves.
a writer. president. - the debate is closed. mr president of the council! a little overshadowed by the dramatic events in the middle east, in havana there is a bearded dictator who has been haunting the world for decades. he rules over a country where human rights are violated, where the people live in abject poverty, and where dissenters are imprisoned and harassed. after china, cuba is the world's largest prison for journalists. in the spring of 2003, a wave of oppression swept the island. leaders of the democracy movement were arrested, and after farcical trials, 75 of them were sentenced to long prison terms. last year a large group of young people were arrested as a preventive measure, in case they might cause trouble. that's how much fear there is on this island. when the european parliament awarded its sakharov prize to the 'damas de blanco', the wives and daughters of the imprisoned dissidents, just before christmas, representatives of the movement were not allowed to leave the island to travel to strasbourg. cuba is a terrible dictatorship and the above facts are well known. over the years, the situation has worsened. the situation for political prisoners is very serious. my friend héctor palacios, who was sentenced to 25 years in prison, is very sick and the doctors fear for his life. he's not getting help for his high blood pressure and his heart complications. adolfo fernandez seinz, to give another example, a journalist sentenced to 15 years, is also in poor health and has lost 20 kilos since his imprisonment. outside prison, dissidents are also harassed, such as sakharov prize laureate oswaldo josé payá sardiñas and blind human rights activist juan carlos gonzalez leiva, who has been under house arrest since april 2004. it is, of course, totally unacceptable that people are still being held in cuba because of their opinions. it is equally unacceptable that these prisoners are not receiving the help they need when they are in a poor state of health. when the council of ministers decided a year ago to change the 'common position' it had held for many years and instead to start talks with the regime, it thought it saw some kind of opening and possibilities in cuba. a majority in this house criticised that policy, and a year later it has to be said that it has had no effect. it was a wrong decision and it should be reconsidered. what does the council intend to do now to support the dissidents in cuba? how can we support the democracy movement and the cuban people in a good way? we must increase the pressure on fidel castro and at the same time find a strategic way to identify the positive democratic forces that exist. why is it so hard to support the democratic forces in cuba when it's going well in belarus? there's still a kind of castro romance that's embarrassing to me. i would very much like to have answers from the council to these questions.
rapporteur. – mr president, the issue of men’s violence against women is not a small issue on the fringe of society. it is everywhere and it affects the whole of society directly and indirectly. i am grateful for what i perceive to be a growing understanding of the scope of this problem. i want to thank my fellow meps in the committee on women’s rights and equal opportunities for the valuable help and support i received during this work. i am also pleased that commissioner franco frattini has shown a strong and honest commitment. we now have a serious opportunity to recognise all women who have experienced violence but not justice. the cornerstone of my report is that we need correct figures. at eu level there are no reliable studies. however, three national prevalence studies in finland in 1999, sweden in 2001 and germany in 2004, indicate that previous assessments have vastly underestimated the extent of the problem. using the united nations’ definition of violence against women, these studies show that 40 to 50% of women in these three countries have, at some point in their lives, been subjected to violence by a man. i should like to emphasise that: between 40 and 50% of all women between the age of 16 and 67. the corresponding figure for the whole of the eu would be incredibly high, at between 80 and 100 million women. obviously effective measures must be based on correct facts and figures and the need for similar studies in other member states is urgent. the magnitude of the problem in itself indicates that all member states are repeatedly violating the basic rules of civil liberties and the rule of law on a scale that we have yet to understand. you may think this an exaggeration. it is not. i would like to invoke a classic liberal. more than 300 years ago, the british philosopher, john locke, introduced a fundamental idea: a government should be regarded as a tool for the defence of fundamental rights, the most fundamental civil right being the right to life and physical safety. this is the moral, normative basis for the state and its reason for being. citizens agree to obey the laws, but this presupposes that the state fulfils its basic commitment to protect the lives, freedom and property of its citizens. any state which fails in this task has broken the contract. when it comes to violence against women, the failure is measurable in all member states of the union. all violence is a challenge to our civilisation and to the rule of law. but men’s violence against women is a specific challenge to the contract of which all common policy is an expression. there is a systematic difference in the way crimes of violence are treated, depending on the gender of the victim. violence against men typically happens in public, perpetrated by another man, often a stranger. violence against women typically happens in private, perpetrated by a man known to the woman, very often a man with whom the woman has or has had a relationship. the most crucial difference, politically, is that private violence against women is not prosecuted as seriously as public violence against men. the issue of men’s violence against women is not a small issue on the fringe of society, there is also a history. violence in the street from a stranger, primarily affecting men, has been a criminal offence in europe for centuries, but it is quite recent that violence occurring in the home was made a criminal offence. well into the latter part of the 20th century, europe had many laws which excused domestic violence by men against women. this legacy lives on in our union. we can see it in case law, attitudes and perceptions about the less serious nature of private violence. the issue of men’s violence against women is not a small issue on the fringe of society. men’s violence against women has also been a way of keeping men, in general, in power. when the un general assembly in 1993 adopted the declaration on the elimination of violence against women, it was the first time a un document had placed men’s violence against women in a gender-power perspective. it explicitly links violence to the superior position of men. what we need to do now is to act. first get the figures right and then proceed to the proper solutions. the issue of men’s violence against women is not a small issue on the fringe of society, it affects us all. i demand zero tolerance of men’s violence against women.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for giving us the opportunity to discuss this extremely important issue in the european union this evening. violence by men against women is a serious socio-political problem throughout the world, in addition to being a criminal act and a violation of human rights. we social democrats believe that violence by men against women is linked to the unequal power relations between men and women, and the problem will increase unless the member states strongly and clearly oppose this through legislation. men's violence against women naturally has great social and human consequences. behind every battered woman, i often say, is a number of children who, in addition to suffering great physical and mental suffering, believe that this is the way it should be, which in the long run may lead them to adopt the same behavior when they become adults. we must break this vicious circle. often we forget the children in these contexts too. it is important that children who see their mothers beaten are also considered victims and have the right to a fair trial. it is also demonstrated that violence against women is an important factor in the lives of women and girls who are victims of trafficking and prostitution. i would also like to point out that we should combat the attitude that prostitution is to be equated with professional practice. this kind of violence and gross human abuse is absolutely unacceptable. all forms of violence against women honour-related violence, genital mutilation, etc. and prostitution and human trafficking are linked. the eu must lead by example and take the lead in combating these manifestations of unequal distribution of power and discrimination between the sexes. it is also important to work on prevention through research, information and the exchange of knowledge between member states. often, the focus is naturally on the victims, but active prevention strategies targeting the perpetrator and those at risk of becoming perpetrators are also required. finally, i would like to mention briefly one of my own amendments, which concerns alcohol in relation to violence. alcohol is often involved in acts of violence and it is important that no reference to intoxication be accepted as an extenuating circumstance in cases of male violence against women. however, the triggering effect of alcohol on men's violence against women should definitely be taken into account when reviewing strategies to reduce alcohol-related harm in society. (applause from the left)
i am pleased that the report emphasizes the principle of subsidiarity in the authorization procedure. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament has stressed that the commission should pay particular attention to the consequences of the liberalisation of the postal market for rural dwellers (paragraph 9). however, i do not have any clear wording to make it clear that we cannot accept a deterioration in the service provided to the people living in isolated areas of europe. the commission has not taken a position on restrictions on the frequency of mail distribution (see oral question h-1135/05). the european parliament is not clear on this issue either. the future availability of postal services to people living in rural areas depends on the price of services being comparable to the level in the rest of the country. the european parliament does not take a position on this issue in the report, nor has the commission. i am also critical of the european parliament's criticism of national vat on the postal market (paragraph 18) and of the proposal that the european commission should investigate the way in which the pension data of public postal operators are handled (paragraph 17). these are issues which must be dealt with at national level. i shall vote against this report.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is true that i do not often agree with the commission on liberalisation projects, but this is a sensible form of liberalisation. i see that jacques toubon has done some serious work and has carried out an 'impact assessment', but that is not enough reason to regulate at eu level. if a country wants to regulate bread sizes and pasta sizes, they can do so, but not at eu level. it may be a little ridiculous when the eu is doing this. what consumers expect is protection against dangerous additives and a review of the additives we use. a clear label large enough to be read, and in your own language, so that you understand the ingredients. the rules on misleading marketing cover the problems that consumers might encounter due to confusing pack sizes. it is the kind of legislation that has a real 'impact' on consumer needs. i agree with the commission on alcohol, but that is another matter. it is a question of controlling consumption in a different way, and the existing rules proposed by the commission are appropriate. there are reasons for regulation. i think it was a well-balanced proposal that the commission made, not to increase eu legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. i would like to welcome the commission's proposal for the deregulation of packaging. i hope that the further discussion will lead to a move towards the commission's line, so that it is the consumer and not the politicians who make the choice. the rapporteur, jacques toubon, has shown a willingness to accept my amendment which saves swedish milk packaging, so that the milk for the coffee at work can be kept. there is still some room for manoeuvre in the liberalization of butter and pasta, and in general less detailed regulation. it would be bad for competition and for consumers if we were to undermine the interests of smes and give market shares to large multinationals through policy measures. we cannot accept the report in that form, as we come from a small country. we've had enough of debating cucumbers and strawberries. let us not have a debate on milk-snatching and let us negotiate further towards greater freedom for the consumer. there is a long way to go before this matter is satisfactorily concluded.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the amendments by jacques toubon to the commission's proposal mean that many countries are setting up new rules at eu level for a market that is already functioning. we swedish social democrats believe that the rapporteur's amendment does not bring any benefits to consumers, on the contrary. if the rapporteur's line were to be heard, it would entail considerable costs for many european companies to convert, and this without there being even a need or necessarily a desire on the part of the groups which it claims to represent. the swedish consumer agency, for example, which is actively working with several groups and associations on packaging issues, has never heard any requests for fixed packaging sizes, according to our contacts with them. moreover, the eu institutions would not live up to their ambition to improve the quality of legislation by avoiding detailed regulation. we swedish social democrats have nothing against putting high demands on companies to achieve better consumer protection, quite the contrary. in this case, however, as i said, it is a question of unnecessary regulation and we shall therefore vote against it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you helmuth markov for a job well done. what we need are safer and more secure roads in europe. today, 43,000 people die on our roads every year, and we know that the times when large vehicles are involved in accidents have disastrous consequences. we must do everything we can to make the roads safer and safer. the decision we are about to take is a genuinely european one. rider and professional drivers often work in several european countries. their daily work is to move goods and passengers across our continent. you're competing on a european level. we must also have fair competition and good control possibilities at european level. we must also have better conditions for professional drivers, conditions which are safer and more secure in their work. we have the opportunity to decide that today. we're not getting everything, but we're getting somewhere. there is also the introduction of digital tachographs, and i think that is a very important issue. today, we have travel writers who can be manipulated, and who are manipulated. it is important that we have safe tachographs which contribute to safer and safer traffic for all of us, but also for professional drivers. i therefore propose that we vote 'yes' to this conciliation proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this directive concerns the health and safety of drivers, road safety and equal competition. i was responsible for the opinion of the employment committee and i would like to thank helmuth markov for the good cooperation we had at that time. today i think you can feel content. we may not have reached the end of the road on every issue, but the proposal now before us on driving and rest periods is a good one. it is a good idea to introduce the digital tachograph to give us better controls. the problem with the working time directive is, of course, there, but we cannot blame it on these regulations. it is a failure to implement and i would say to the commission and the council that the council must also agree to the proposal we have put forward here in parliament for a new working time proposal. that's the problem. then it would be wrong to vote no to this. instead, we should think of it as a pressure. here we have agreed on a good regulation for drivers and now it is time to have a working time directive which also meets the expectations of the citizens of europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. in order to have a functioning european market for goods, it is important that the interests of consumers are also taken into account. this is not the case with the amendments made by the committee on internal market affairs to the commission's draft law laying down rules on nominal quantities of pre-packaged goods. the rapporteur has proposed rules on packaging for, among other things, butter, milk, pasta and rice. i want european consumers to have a choice of many products and there is no intrinsic value in regulating away today's swedish milk cartons of, say, 300 ml. today, consumers can decide for themselves what they want to buy by looking at price comparisons. we will legislate to improve the conditions of competition and to increase consumer protection. on the other hand, we will clear away unnecessary rules, in line with the commission's ambition. i therefore voted for a narrower but more restrictive eu, free of unnecessary regulation which imposes unnecessary costs on the food industry.
in writing. the report deals with a proposal for deregulation, but at the same time harmonization, of the size of food packaging. on the one hand, from the point of view of the internal market, it may be good to have standards which ultimately benefit the consumer. on the other hand, the report proposes far-reaching detailed regulation at eu level. the amendments voted by parliament's committees mention that studies carried out by the commission show that comparative prices are generally neither used nor understood by consumers. these statements are to some extent disrespectful to the citizens of the member states and thus demonstrate an unpleasant attitude towards the population. i voted against the report today because it involves regulation of an area which should really be a matter for each member state to decide and should not be at eu level.
in writing. once again, a report on the eu's common foreign and security policy, the cfsp, has been put on the agenda. it is the junist party's firm belief that foreign and security policy is a matter that must be dealt with at the level of the member states, not the eu. the report also states that the european parliament must be consulted when guidelines for the cfsp are drawn up for each new year. parliament is thus trying to usurp more power, something junilistan opposes. for the reasons mentioned above, i voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. we voted for the report. we interpret the concept of 'minimum income' in paragraph 4 (f) as implying a guaranteed decent standard of living, as we are in favour of a guaranteed decent standard of living but against the introduction of state-relegated minimum wages.
in writing. the moderate delegation has today decided to abstain in a vote on the current situation in combating violence against women and possible future measures. we have not been able to support the report because it seeks to make national competences the subject of eu decisions. we are firmly convinced that gender equality and criminal policy issues should be decided by the member states and that they are best placed to do so. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. we believe that the state must fulfill its primary task, to protect citizens from criminal attacks, regardless of the victim and the sex of the perpetrator. the emphasis should be on the responsibility of the individual perpetrator of violence rather than on a societal view that reduces the responsibility of the individual.
in writing. i very much share the rapporteur's views on this subject. it is of the utmost importance that opinion is formed on these issues in the member states. i voted in favour of the report because it does not explicitly advocate legislation at eu level. a number of recommendations are made to both the commission and the member states to combat violence against women. i believe that this is ultimately a matter for the national parliaments to take any legislative action that may be necessary.
in writing. the moderate delegation has today chosen to abstain in a vote on equality between women and men in the eu. we moderates want to fight the injustice of inequality and prejudice. however, it is not the eu's job to define what action should be taken in the member states or by other actors in society. we cannot therefore support the report, which makes a number of proposals which fall within the competence of the member states, for example in the provision of childcare, where the cultural characteristics and traditions of the member states are so different. the report also deals with areas which even the member states should not regulate, such as whether political parties are considering strategies to bring more women into their party structure. however, there are other important aspects which are addressed in the report, such as the need to collect comparable statistics on the pay of men and women and the fight against discrimination.
in writing. i believe, of course, that cuba should be a parliamentary democracy. i believe, however, that foreign policy is a national concern and that multilateral channels, such as the un, are the only acceptable option for influencing countries outside the eu's immediate vicinity. i have voted against the resolution for the reasons stated above.
in writing. i have voted in favour of the proposed resolution on cuba, even though it is missing several important facts in the political context. the main problem in the cuban situation is caused by the us-lead blockade and the aggressive us threats against cuba. putting an end to the blockade and stopping the aggressive threats by the us would be the most important step in creating an atmosphere in which there would be better possibilities to create a true democracy in cuba. but the aggressive us policy is not the only reason for the severe restrictions on freedom of expression and democracy in cuba. the cuban government also has its own individual responsibility to bear. one example, among others, is the decision not to let the sakharov prize-winners, the damas de blanco, leave the country to receive the prize in strasbourg. i am voting in favour of the resolution, despite its imperfections, since i want to protest against the cuban government’s travel ban on the damas de blanco.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. the committee on the environment welcomes the commission's proposal for common rules for chickens for fattening, in particular because it brings clear improvements in animal welfare, but also because it promotes the functioning of the internal market. the major problem with the commission's proposal is that it is too low in terms of animal welfare. for example, according to the conclusions of the scientific committee on animal health and animal welfare, which we have used as a basis for our decision, the level of occupancy must be less than 25 kg in order to avoid major deficiencies and unnecessary suffering. in line with this, many of us have tabled amendments on the degree of occupancy and on the points system for damage to the tram ducts. these changes are necessary to ensure the protection of animals. we in the european parliament must take the expertise seriously and show the council that we want to tighten up the commission's proposals on animal welfare. that is the most important thing at the moment, and perhaps not the details of our amendments. i therefore hope that a majority of this parliament will vote in favour of these amendments tomorrow, which have therefore received a large amount of support in the committee on the environment. a large majority voted for them, both from the right and from the left.
madam president, i would like to thank you. no other animal is suffering as much as broiler chickens. it's the animals that are in the worst shape today. they are bred to extreme growth that causes one-fifth of all these animals to have joint damage. packed tight, stressed, and born without the closeness of their mother, they suffer their short lives. berman has tried to find a good balance of measures, but unfortunately the committee on agriculture has a short-term interest page. this must be rectified by the proposals of the committee on the environment. both animal health and our consumers demand better conditions. i thank jørgensen and others for their cooperation. according to eurobarometer, the single animal welfare issue most europeans want to tackle is precisely improving the conditions of broilers. today, parliament must listen to their voices. therefore, vote in favour of the proposals of the verts/ale group and those put forward by mr jørgensen and the rest of us in the committee on the environment. without these improvements, the industry loses all credibility and risks being knocked out by low consumer confidence rather than by competing imports.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank members for a very interesting debate. perhaps i should have quoted mahatma ghandi earlier: ‘the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated’. in the european union, thank god, we have a very high level of civilisation. the largest number of letters and complaints i have received from european citizens concerns animal welfare, in particular broilers. so this proposal reflects the views of european citizens. it is based on science, but also on consultations with all the stakeholders over a period of three years to take account of all their views and concerns. it is a compromise. some would like us to go further and have said it is a low-standard proposal. others say we have gone too far. it is a step towards protecting the welfare of animals, but it also takes into account the interests of the producers. competitiveness is certainly important, but we know that the cost imposed on production by animal welfare standards is very low, something between 2.5 and 8 cents per bird. the other costs affect competitiveness. but i do not believe that european producers can compete on the basis of cost. they should compete on the basis of quality. i have some photographs here of the dermatitis caused by this intensive farming and i do not think that any european consumer would be willing to eat these birds; it is just that they do not know about it. so awareness and education are the best policy, together with labelling, which is very important. we have letters; we have eurobarometer. european citizens are ready to pay more, provided they know, and we are working on that. on the issue of avian flu, best practices in animal welfare help us implement preventive measures more effectively, to protect the industry and the birds from avian flu. if it is easier to detect sick animals, it is easier to control the situation, and therefore these proposals on animal welfare and protection against avian flu are compatible. regarding the amendments, because of the lack of time we will circulate a full list of those that have been accepted and those that have not. i would ask that this list be included in the verbatim report of proceedings of this sittingcommission’s position on amendments by parliament: see ‘position of the commission’ annex. many of the amendments were accepted because they are compatible with the philosophy of the proposal. others cannot be accepted, mostly for technical reasons or because the provisions are already included in existing legislation. proposals such as those that take account of climatic conditions, types of production, training of staff and the way the checks should be performed can all be accepted. one of the most sensitive issues was density. we feel that the proposal is a reasonable compromise. it meets the standards, it improves the situation and it establishes conditions and controls. we would therefore prefer that parliament accept the commission’s proposal on that point and we cannot accept that amendment. concerning mandatory labelling, we feel – and i agree with mr parish that it is very important – that six months is a rather short period. it would be very difficult to produce a substantial report with specific proposals, so we need more time for that. finally, on the issue of cost, not everything can be measured in monetary terms, but i know it is a very important aspect. animal welfare is a very small part of the production cost. i mentioned earlier that in one of the cases the world bank studied, with the adoption of a very small number of improvements in the treatment of birds, a farm managed to save usd 320 000 per year. i think that proves that adopting animal welfare policies is only really a cost in the short term; eventually it makes a profit and there is a financial benefit for the producers. i would like to thank members again for their support for this proposal, which is a big step towards improving animal welfare in the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, the roadmap for state aid reform from the commission is a good and an important document. i hope that this report will contribute to the improvement of the state aid policy. therefore, i should like to thank colleagues and shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this improvement by the amendments and discussions we have had in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i hope there will be, as there was in the committee, broad support for this new policy, which i hope will make an impact on the future guidelines on state aid policy that the commission will be responsible for. herr talman, europa behöver ett konkurrenskraftigt näringsliv. vi behöver nya företag, nya jobb, nya produkter, nya marknader, vilket vi säger väldigt ofta. det är därför också viktigt att följa upp detta genom att se till att nya och små företag får lika bra förutsättningar som gamla och stora företag. vi vet mycket väl genom olika erfarenheter att statsstöd alltid tenderar att slå vakt om de gamla existerande företagen på de nya och växande företagens bekostnad. om vi ser oss omkring i europeisk ekonomi liksom i internationell ekonomi, ser vi mycket tydligt att de nya företagen och de nya produkterna inte har kommit fram genom statsstöd utan genom goda förutsättningar för företagande och enskilda entreprenörer. varje typ av statsstöd som snedvrider konkurrensen tenderar alltid att snedvrida den på bekostnad av det nya och växande samt till fördel för det gamla. detta är därför en fråga som i högsta grad handlar om hur vi skall få nya jobb och nya företag. en statsstödspolitik som innebär att vi konserverar företag med liten konkurrenskraft, gamla produkter och låga löner kommer att bidra till att europa släpar efter. en politik som däremot riktar in sig på mindre statsstöd, på att ta bort sådana statsstöd som snedvrider konkurrens och som istället satsar resurser på innovation och forskning kommer att kunna ge ett annat resultat. vi har i europeisk historia mycket att lära från en lång rad olika erfarenheter när det gäller statsstöd. jag skriver i mitt betänkande att kommissionen noggrant bör följa och analysera dessa erfarenheter, liksom de goda erfarenheter som finns, eftersom målet för statsstöd ofta är populärt och allmänt gillat. problemet är bara att resultatet sällan blir det som man har tänkt sig. resultatet blir att man hamnar i bidragsberoende och i gamla strukturer samt att vi inte får fram de nya arbetstillfällena. vi har sett det inom varvs- och stålindustri och inom en lång rad andra sektorer. där statsstöd går in, går förnyelsen och förändringen ut. vi måste se till att situationen blir den omvända. ett övergripande mål i betänkandet är att följa upp det generella målet att minska statsstöd men också, vilket skrivs tydligt i betänkandet och ännu tydligare i kommissionens dokument, att ta bort sådant statsstöd som snedvrider konkurrens. ytterligare en målsättning är att se till att de regler som finns skall bli tydligare. målet måste nämligen vara att följa upp kravet på mindre statsstöd. i fråga om de krav som ställs på statsstöd gäller att det skall vara förutsägbart, det skall inte kunna användas till omlokaliseringar, reglerna för statsstöd skall vara generella, stödet skall ha en generell inriktning, det skall vara horisontellt inriktat och inte gynna det ena företaget på det andras bekostnad. detta är väldigt viktigt när vi diskuterar innovationer. innovationspolitiken får nämligen inte bli en ursäkt för ökat statsstöd, utan den skall syfta till att skapa bättre förutsättningar för innovation. samma sak gäller företag i allmänhetens intresse. vi får inte ha ett statsstöd som överfinansierar den typen av verksamheter, utan vi måste ge möjligheter åt nya företag att växa fram. detsamma kan sägas om det regionala stödet eller miljöstödet. det måste ha en horisontell riktning, vilket gör det öppet och tillgängligt för alla. om vi ser till att så sker och följer upp kraven på ökad insyn och öppenhet, bättre redovisning och starkare kontroll, då kommer vi att lägga grunden för en statsstödspolitik som innebär mindre statsstöd, inget statsstöd som snedvrider konkurrens, däremot ökade resurser för innovationer, bättre miljö och levande regioner.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by urging the commission, as in this own-initiative report, to submit a legislative proposal on the share of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector as soon as possible. there is broad support here in parliament for what such a directive should contain. we are happy to complement the two directives on the promotion of renewable energy sources in electricity and transport with the third sector, heating, as the commission's ambition in the white paper 'energy for the future: renewable energy sources'. a community strategy and action plan' from 1997. almost half of europe's total energy consumption is used for heating. with today's warning signs of climate change and given our dependence on imports of traditional energy sources with high carbon emissions as a result, it is of the utmost importance that we exploit the enormous potential and existing resources that we have in renewable energy sources in europe. by increasing the shares of these in the heating and cooling sector, we have great gains to make. let me mention a few: we're reducing the carbon footprint. we are reducing our dependence on imports and increasing self-sufficiency in europe. we are not as easily affected by energy crises elsewhere in the world. by promoting renewable sources, we are providing incentives for innovation and technological development in this area, which in turn leads to further more efficient and cleaner energy consumption. by choosing renewable sources in accordance with the conditions of each member state, we contribute to regional development. we are creating more jobs; it is one of the few areas in europe where we can actually see that we are creating new jobs and moving in the right direction towards increased growth. these are the needs and the benefits, but how do we get there? i believe that national binding targets for the share of renewable energy are a first step, but it is not enough. i would also like to ask the commission to create the conditions necessary for companies to have the courage to make long-term investments in technologies that allow greater use of renewable energy sources, and to give the commission the resources necessary for the development and discovery of new technologies for the crucial research. finally, i would like to draw attention to the technological solutions that already exist and that enable us to make more efficient use of the energy we use to heat homes, namely district heating. technical solutions and the choice of energy source go hand in hand. modern and technologically advanced district heating is part of the solution and can also be combined with electricity generation in the so-called trigeneration. this own-initiative report clearly and unambiguously sets out what parliament wants to see in a future legislative proposal. i hope that the commission will follow up this initiative quickly, so that we can quickly have the incentives needed to switch to an increasingly renewable energy source to heat or cool europe. it takes a new way of thinking to solve the problems that we created with the old way of thinking, as albert einstein once said. parliament has done a great deal of work in this area. we now hope that the commission will continue this work.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank you for the very interesting debate, and i also again thank the rapporteur, mrs rothe, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for their work. i know that you all feel passionately about this subject, and this is definitely not the only answer that we should be looking for in the energy sector. i am also passionate about this report. the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy and the debate today have demonstrated very impressive support for the ideas expressed in the report. i believe the commission has already taken strong steps in this direction. in the biomass action plan in december 2005 the commission announced that it would work towards an initiative on heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. but at the same time, as some members have indicated, we care about better legislation and delivering legislation that can be implemented properly and respect the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i have asked my services to deliver an impact assessment in this area, because it will also be very important later on in the debate to steer the proposal on the basis of a proper impact assessment. on the basis of this impact assessment, i will take a further decision on how to take this important subject further. however, at the same time i can tell you that the commission will meet your expectations, as mr vidal-quadras roca mentioned, and we are working not only in this direction but also for the implementation of legislation. today i am pleased to inform the committee on industry of exactly what we are doing in this respect. we have adopted the biomass action plan that i have already mentioned, and recently we adopted the communication on biofuels. that shows that the commission is very serious about achieving better penetration of renewable energies in a european energy mix. i thank you for your huge interest in this debate and i hope that by the end of this year i will be able to present a legislative proposal to this house.
rapporteur. – mr president, i tend to agree with you that parts two and three do not make sense following the rejection of part one. it is not one of my amendments, but i would say that the vote we already had is enough. (laughter)
rapporteur. – i would like to move the following oral amendment, which has been agreed with the shadow rapporteur of the pse group: ‘whereas state aid which does not distort competition is a permissible means of promoting economic development and can thus be one means of promoting the lisbon agenda for economic growth and jobs, alongside other tools, including community funding, such as the structural funds’.
in writing. the report raises the question of the value of the internal market in relation to national self-determination. a case is currently pending before the court of justice (case c-156/04). we do not think that a statement here and now by the european parliament will in any way advance the case. we have therefore voted against this report, but we would like to emphasize that we are not taking a position on the substance of the current debate. the court of justice may first take a position and give a ruling. the greek authorities and the national parliament will then discuss how to deal with the court's decisions.
in writing. i voted against this proposal at first reading, but now the governments of the member states have improved it. this directive does not imply any new legislation but merely the application of existing legislation in areas where the eu has already assumed competence. the bizarre proposal to include solar radiation has been eliminated. in addition, the rules are based on international conventions and, where these are lacking, national legislation is accepted. health checks and follow-up shall be carried out in accordance with national practice. this is therefore a reasonably balanced proposal which can be accepted. the benefits of occupational safety and health outweigh the problem of further legislation, as this directive does not in practice lead to any new eu competence.
in writing. we have voted to the best of our ability for better animal husbandry. however, some amendments put to the vote have been too detailed for political decision-makers to take a position on. the details of the nighttime, foot injuries and first week mortality of a broiler are difficult for a layman to determine. we would have welcomed it if we could have decided on general principles and then had experts draw up the more precise regulatory framework. this is a consultation procedure for the european parliament and not a co-decision procedure, which could have allowed for a more principled statement on the matter. we also want to stress the importance of moving forward in negotiations within the world trade organisation to reach a global consensus on stricter production requirements in terms of food safety and animal welfare requirements.
in writing. i voted for this very weak report because it does, after all, bring about improvements in most countries and is about minimum legislation, which means that we are allowed to have stricter rules. our amendments on reducing congestion were very reasonable compromises which received almost unanimous support in the committee on the environment; it is tragic that they did not receive support. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of animal by-products. this is shooting yourself in the foot for the industry. i voted for the agriculture committee's proposal on 34 kg in 2013 because it is better than the original proposal for that reason alone. this can be used against the council where several countries want to go over 100 pounds. the european parliament is at any rate taking a different approach. chickens will continue to suffer more than any other animal. the way we treat our animals says a lot about how advanced our civilization is. this case says we're barbarians.
in writing. an analysis of state aid must be based on a clear conception of the differences between private and public revenues and costs, i.e. on a conception of the existence of externalities. this report goes beyond the analysis of principle and thus comes to general conclusions which cannot be substantiated. in addition, external effects will be used in the debate without any serious attempt at evaluation. we have nevertheless voted in favour of the report because it generally discourages state aid. it is common experience that state aid is used to an excessive extent for protectionist reasons.
in writing. the report on the effects of globalisation on the single market was voted for by the moderates today. we support the report's view that globalisation will require economic reforms to maintain europe's competitiveness. however, we are critical of the establishment of a globalisation fund, as the consequences of globalisation are best managed by a dynamic market economy.
in writing. the report deals with the human rights clause in agreements concluded by the european union. an example of such an agreement is the cotonou agreement concluded by the eu with the acp countries. the clause has been in place for ten years, and the rapporteur now believes it appropriate to evaluate it. at present, the european parliament cannot enter into negotiations if it considers that a country has breached the clause. among the proposals made by agnoletto is that parliament should be able to initiate this type of dialogue. the rapporteur also wants the european parliament to be involved in the whole procedure concerning the clause. the above shows that parliament is being given greater powers, which we are opposed to in principle. that is why we voted against the agnoletto report in today's vote.
in writing. the junilists are opposed to the eu's common fisheries policy and want to end this policy in the long term. we therefore believe that the eu should not decide whether to keep the shetland box and the red-spotted box. this question can be decided with advantage by existing international bodies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal for a services directive is reactionary. it threatens the rights of workers and risks leading to social dumping. we therefore call for the motion to be rejected in its entirety. if that does not happen, we will vote for any proposal that limits the harmful effects of the directive, such as proposals to remove the country of origin principle and proposals to exclude sectors from the directive. the compromise proposal between the pse and ppe groups removes important shortcomings from the proposal, but there are still major ambiguities which will be settled in the ec court of justice. we do not want the rights of the workers to be decided there. we cannot accept that the rights of workers and the legislation which is supposed to protect our citizens are sacrificed on the altar of the free market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for almost two years we have been discussing this services directive throughout europe. it's great that there's finally something that people are engaging in amongst the things that we do in this congregation. sometimes there are many misunderstandings, and sometimes these misunderstandings are exploited in a rather distasteful way. the services directive aims to remove all the thousands of bureaucratic obstacles that hinder europe's entrepreneurs, not least small businesses. we must not forget that it is the companies that create jobs. without companies, there are no employees at all. the service sector is a growing part of our economies. there are great opportunities for jobs and growth. we need to open up and reform the european economies, which is quite urgent. the country of origin principle is a clever one in that it creates a genuine internal market without discrimination. this is a major step forward for citizens and businesses. the principle was clarified and specified in the imco compromise, which states that the host country's rules on labour law, public health and safety apply. the compromise now circulating among the major groups has introduced a very clumsy concept, namely social policy. this is deeply unfortunate, because it opens the door to protectionism and a great many different legal interpretations. we are already hearing how representatives of the various groups interpret this. but now it seems that that compromise is dying, which we should welcome. the services directive is about how europe will cope in a globalised world. it is about growth, the economy, employment and freedom of choice. since the treaty of rome, we have had the aim of establishing free movement also for services and now is the time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. parliament is capitulating today, renouncing its political role. the compromise is to remove the concept of the country of origin principle and replace it with a political vacuum. this vacuum will then be filled by the court of justice, which will in turn reinstate the principle of the country of origin, since it consistently puts the internal market before everything else. the court of justice may not be removed from office or held liable. is that democracy? only large companies with armies of lawyers will be able to assert their interests under the services directive. the only unemployment that the directive will remedy is that of the lawyers. the losers will be the municipalities, the public servants, the consumers and the small businesses. let us vote against this directive! instead of forcing the liberalization of everything, we should respect democratically made decisions to preserve sectors from short-term market thinking. the eu cannot live by economic efficiency alone. we also need democratic efficiency, where citizens are not constantly overwhelmed by bad directives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish junilista is committed to the proper functioning of the internal market and therefore has a positive attitude towards the services directive. at the same time, we value national self-determination. there must be good reasons for member states to delegate power and competence to the eu. if we accept the principle of the country of origin, we are giving up national sovereignty. we believe that the benefits of this principle are too limited for us to be prepared to do so. this principle mainly concerns services such as construction, cleaning and consultancy. these are important sectors, but they do not have a decisive influence on sweden's prosperity and gdp. it is also positive that national service monopolies will not be included in the directive. if these are to be reorganised, it must be done in a democratic spirit, that is, through a broad debate in those countries which consider such a change desirable. we will support the compromise.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at the moment, everyone's attention is on the european parliament. we all have the opportunity to set the political agenda. we shall take advantage of this opportunity to put our foot down on this extremely important directive. this is not the bolkestein directive but a compromise which is emerging, which is something else entirely. i will give you some examples from the employment committee. employment law, collective agreements and the right to take action are not affected by the directive. the member states will now be able to require service companies to have a representative who can conclude collective agreements, be responsible for health and safety inspections, etc. public services such as health care, social services and education services are excluded from the directive. the staffing companies are not affected either, pending a specific directive on the staffing companies. in the case of services of general economic interest, it is up to the member states to open them up to competition, but if they do so, this should also apply to the whole of the internal market. this is a good compromise, combining the benefits of the single market with labour market security and protecting the public services that citizens in our member states and regions have access to today. some consider this to be an unclear compromise. but what about today? what happens if we reject the directive? how many cases are waiting for a decision in the courts instead of being decided by a directive where we lay down the rules of the game? i say that this directive is moving forward! it is clearer than the regulations we have today, and that is why we should vote in favour.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. this is a giant leap for the eu and a small step for free trade. whether there is a step forward depends on the vote on thursday. the exceptions are too many, and the principle must not be too weak. it is important for small businesses, and it is especially important for small countries. without added value, the compromise is worthless. the commission therefore has a special responsibility in the further work. protectionism within the eu, which is disguised as social policy or consumer protection, is unreasonable. let me give you two examples. if you are to build 25 identical villas in germany, you must submit 25 plans for approval to the authorities and pay 25 times, even though it is the exact same villa that is to be built. does that make sense? no, it's expensive for the consumer and unreasonable! if a swedish tourist group goes on a holiday to greece and has a diving instructor with them, they must speak greek. otherwise he is not allowed to work with and speak to a swedish group in greece, even though this swedish group does not know any greek at all. this is ridiculous! we therefore need better rules for crossborder trade in services. we can improve this compromise on thursday by reducing exemptions and also including private health care. so push through what the austrian presidency says it is seeking, namely an ambitious services directive that will contribute to increased prosperity for all of us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. after listening to the debate here in the plenary, it is worth recalling why we should have a services directive and why we are working towards a more open trade in services. this is because we all agree on the basic principle that increased trade in services leads to more jobs, more new businesses, more growth and better competitiveness. however, when we hear the debate here, it seems that many have forgotten this. free trade in services is not a negative thing, it is a positive thing. unfortunately, the opponents have succeeded in cutting back on the directive. this means that we will be less competitive than we could have been otherwise. that means fewer new jobs and fewer new businesses. that is not what the citizens of europe expect. i will support the compromise, along with other moderates, not because that is what we want but because the compromise is a step along the way. i would like to stress, however, that i do not accept the picture that is being presented, namely that there is a conflict between east and west, between the new and the old member states. instead, it is a dividing line between those who want more european integration and cooperation, more open borders and more and new jobs through trade in services and those who disagree. we will work to bring about private health, that the posting directive is clearly open to all, and that we do not discriminate against citizens of any country. we will also work to ensure that staffing companies are included in this activity. i would like to say the following to the commission: this is a first step, you have a responsibility to ensure that we take further steps in the direction that the treaty provides.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in iran is indeed a cause for concern. not only is the human rights situation deplorable, but the regime is also deceiving the international community by violating international principles and ignoring the demands of the iaea. the idea that iran could acquire nuclear weapons is, of course, extremely frightening, not least in light of the statements and threats against israel and what that would mean for the rest of the region. moreover, the regime in tehran seems to be perfectly suited to the unrest surrounding the drawings of muhammad, and there are many indications that the unrest is being fomented by tehran itself. it is time for the eu to formulate a very clear strategy towards iran. it should include several different points: clear support for dissidents, democratic forces inside and outside iran, such as the referendum movement, strong condemnation of the gross violations of human rights, pressure to comply with international conventions and international cooperation, and of course dialogue and diplomacy. however, this strategy should also include preparations for possible sanctions decided by the un security council.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate we are having is very important. the debate in this parliament and in the media on the middle east has mostly been concentrated on the palestinian elections and on iraq. now, with regard to iran, the nuclear issue is being discussed. at the same time, human rights are being violated, as many of the previous speakers have pointed out. as a member of the committee on the interior and the committee on foreign affairs and as vice-president of the socialist women's party in europe, i receive very disturbing reports and stories of violations of the rights of both women and children. human rights issues must be given greater prominence. we should be acting much more forcefully than i think we are today. big changes in iranian society are happening right now. we are too few to talk about dialogue and too many to be stuck in the big conflict issue. the dialogue between the eu and iran must be resumed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. diplomatic solutions must be put before an escalation of violence and violations. in modern conflicts, it is always civilians, women and children, who are the first to be harmed and violated. it must be stopped now while there is still time to do it.
in writing. the junilist fully supports the iaea's efforts to reach a peaceful solution to the confrontation between iran and the international community and considers that the un security council has the ultimate responsibility to decide what action should be taken. as iran is not part of the eu's immediate neighbourhood, this is not an eu issue unless the member states can reach unanimity in the council on a common position. sweden should work there to prevent iran from developing a nuclear weapon. however, this is not a matter for the european parliament to deal with. we have therefore decided not to attempt to amend the resolution and have voted against it in its entirety.
mr president, i would like to thank you. to understand why the situation in bosnia is so complicated today and why we need constitutional reform in bosnia, we need to understand the background. anyone who experienced the war in bosnia or who followed the events in the balkans in the 1990s knows that the daytona accords had a mission, namely to stop the war. it was imperative to cease fighting immediately and prevent the country from being forced to experience another winter of war. nor did anyone consider the solution offered by the daytona accords to be the perfect solution. on the contrary, there were many who felt that it was not good at all. the daytona accords should probably be seen more as the result of international efforts than as a desired compromise between the various political leaders of bosnia. since then, the peace agreement has preserved the territorial integrity of bosnia, but at the same time, annex 4 to the agreement stipulates that the country will be divided into two parts, a federation of bosniaks and croats and a serb part called republika srpska. ten years later, we find that the consequences of the daytona accords make it difficult for bosnia to function as a normal european country. then let us not even speak of hundreds of ministers or the unruly state apparatus. the main problem, in my view, is that the daytona agreement has led to a situation in which the interests of ethnic groups take precedence over those of individual citizens. the daytona accords thus completed the work begun by the nationalist parties in the first post-communist elections in 1990. these parties still have more or less absolute political power, and they share a more or less pronounced desire to dominate a certain territory inhabited by their respective ethnic groups. this is where the difficulty lies in agreeing on an economic or political future which will apply to all citizens. the difficulty of agreeing on a president, a customs system or an education system is also there. the ethnic has become, and still is, more important than the civil. i was born and raised in bosnia and have experienced the war there. i am absolutely convinced that, as was the case when the daytona accords were signed, the country must receive the necessary active help from the international community. this excellent resolution can be the first step in the eu's strong commitment to this work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am one of those in my group who believe that the group should have signed the joint motion for a resolution. i'm sorry that hasn't happened. the situation in belarus is getting worse. the conditions for a democratic election are unfortunately very poor. the opposition is being systematically persecuted. this applies to both the political opposition and the free trade union movement. critical, independent media have very little scope to operate. in this situation, we must do everything we can to support the democratic forces and to work for a fair election, including working for massive election monitoring. there is only one way to show solidarity with belarus, and that is to demand that the belarusians themselves decide their future. because it requires democracy.
member of the commission. ‘yes, we do’ – that would be the shortest answer. under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, one phase addresses the issue at hand, and the other phases are addressed through the framework programme. from the very beginning, we have coordinated our activities, which are having a similar effect on innovation as the structural funds have on the regions. furthermore, when we talk about involving business in the work we are doing, it is crucial to underline that we have a new tool that did not exist in the past: i refer to the technology platforms, which were established at the beginning of this century and which are developing very fast. the whole idea of technology platforms – i believe we currently have 28 of them – is that they are bottom-up initiatives, starting with the business’s point of view. in these platforms, the points of view of practically all stakeholders are taken on board. so, while these platforms stem from a business initiative, they also include researchers, politicians, ngos, financial institutions, regulatory authorities and the others on board. they create what are known as ‘strategic research agendas’ for the next 20 years – or more, depending on various factors. this is the first time that this kind of tool and this kind of logic have been developed at european union level. i meet daily with industrialists and with others, who are clearly very enthusiastic about what is going on. even if we were now to remove the incentives, which were, at the outset – if we are frank – financed through the framework programme, this is now a process with its own story. it will definitely make a change at european union level. i believe that we are part of a process that will produce hugely important benefits. on the basis of their views for the long-term future, where you have an idea of what research should be undertaken, to the final product and the business sector’s ideas on how to evaluate it in their work, we take this input on board when we create our cooperation activities. in practice, that is in the major part of our programmes. moreover, in some areas, where we believe that this long-term, strong partnership exists, and where there is strong commitment from the companies and other actors, such as member states, for instance, we are ready to develop what are known as ‘joint technological initiatives’, which are a new long-term tool with clear cofinancing, as a new tool, from the european commission. we have never had such a clear overview of the intentions, strategies and points of view of the business sector as we have today when we create the framework programme, and, of course, in the final phase, the specific work programmes.
member of the commission. mrs wallström is in bed with the flu. that is the reason. as a complement to the commission’s reply to written question e-4200/05, asked previously by the honourable member, on the issue of the goodwill ambassadors, the commission can reassure the honourable member that its intention during the period of reflection is to listen to citizens’ views on a range of eu issues and to draw conclusions from the debates held at all levels. the issues discussed will be very varied and they may or may not include recommendations on the desirable level of integration at eu level, but the role of the union will certainly be tackled and in any case the content of the database of debates will be reflected in the feedback process. this process will start with an initial synthesis report that will be presented by the commission to the european council under the austrian presidency in order to prepare the stocktaking exercise at the june 2006 european council. the commission would like to take this opportunity to remind the honourable member that the declaration calling for a period of reflection was adopted by the heads of state and government themselves, therefore it is for the council to take stock of the exercise as well. moreover, in the organisation of national debates the european institutions have an important role to play, but the primary responsibility rests with the member states. what the commission has recommended in plan d is that the national debates need to be structured to ensure that the feedback can have a direct impact on the policy agenda of the european union. concerning the second part of the honourable member’s question, the commission would like to stress that the different initiatives suggested by plan d at european level are part of a long-term plan and are being implemented at a different pace in the 25 member states. the european goodwill ambassador plan is one of the measures that need to be further developed in most of the countries of the eu and in cooperation with the member states, depending on the creativity and the proposals identified by those involved in the process. there is no single model for every country, just as there is no standard model for the organisation of the debates in the member states. in any case, the commission thinks that it is important to reiterate that the ambassadors would always act on a volunteer basis and the views that they would convey would be their own views. the commission has no intention of imposing a particular line on them.
i would like to know whether commissioner potočnik does not think that the project of 'goodwill ambassadors' may seem ridiculous. shouldn't elected meps be ambassadors for the eu?
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this debate. many of the points mentioned in the report are covered by the ongoing studies that the commission has initiated, for example, proposals 2, 5, 7, 19 and 23. regarding the safety-net provision – proposal 8 – the discussion in the council has not produced a clear mandate for introducing a general safety clause in all coms or for trying to finance this insurance out of the modulated money. however, i am ready to examine the introduction of targeted risk and crisis management provisions in other coms and, as mentioned by mr gklavakis, in the fruit and vegetable sector, which we will also discuss here in parliament at the end of this year. i completely agree with your rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, that basic coverage against income reduction is not a solution. it is quite clear that, if or when we face structural problems, they must be solved through policy changes. that is obvious and i am very happy about mr graefe zu baringdorf’s clear support for it. as a safety-net for income, i consider the cap reform’s decoupled direct payment to the farmer to be essential. i am positive about the content of proposals 18, 24 and 26. i also take this opportunity to draw your attention to the review of the state aid guidelines adopted by the commission on 8 february. the commission proposes to include compensation for bad weather and animal and plant diseases in the present exemption regulation for state aid within the agricultural sector. this is hopefully a simplification. it would also speed up the implementation of state aid in such situations, so that we can react extremely quickly. the commission has looked into a number of options for encouraging the development of risk crisis management tools and providing an improved response in the event of a crisis. my intention for the communication was, firstly, to have a comprehensive orientation debate in the council and here in parliament before tabling any legislative proposal. the discussions we have had so far in the council have not, as i said, produced a clear mandate to introduce a general safety clause. however, the commission is ready to proceed further if there should at any stage be a clear mandate from the council. since i consider crisis and risk management an important issue for the future as well, even in the situation of an absence of a clear mandate from the council i am prepared to examine the introduction of a crisis management provision, as i said previously, on a case-by-case basis. there was a question about the position of the new member states. it is quite clear that the new member states will not be excluded from risk management measures. as we have pointed out in the communication, we could envisage identifying a comparable envelope in rural development, just as we do for the old member states – a clear signal to the ten new member states. with the political agreement on the cap reform and the implementation that has now taken place in all the member states, we want european farmers to try and seize the market opportunities. there is a strong responsibility for the farmer, but there is also a need for solidarity when crises arise. listening to the discussions in the european parliament as well as in the council, it seems to me that the approaches are fairly different. my conclusion is, therefore, that we need to study the options carefully and discuss them before taking a final decision on the instruments to be used. i agree completely with mr graefe zu baringdorf that prevention is usually better than cure and my personal view is that the conference on coexistence to be held in april is necessary in order to avoid gmos being mixed with organic production. i am therefore particularly looking forward to that discussion. as for your views on fossil fuels, i do not think that we should wait until we have used up those fuels; we should start now to look at what can be done on renewable energy. i am thinking specifically about our recent discussions on bioethanol and the possibility of taking full advantage of agriculture’s contribution to this future way of reducing our carbon dioxide emissions. this has been an interesting discussion and i thank the rapporteur for what i consider to be a balanced approach to this very important issue.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kindermann, on a very well-balanced report. the commission believes that the main issues and challenges in the european forestry sector are well reflected in the draft opinion. in particular, we appreciate the overall support given to the commission’s proposal concerning the preparation of a european action plan for forestry. in our view, the action plan should provide a coherent, verifiable and practical framework for the implementation of this strategy. it could become a major instrument of coordination between community actions and the forestry policies in the different member states. for that reason, we consider the development and implementation of the action plan a dynamic process, which should involve the member states and the stakeholders and should be accompanied by regular monitoring and reporting. the ideas are very well expressed in the draft opinion and we fully share the rapporteur’s view on the need to develop the action plan in close cooperation with the member states and the stakeholders. i think we have already made progress in that respect. the action plan will be based on the overall principles of the european forestry strategy, which are sustainability and subsidiarity. there are three specific issues that i would like to highlight. first, the need to enhance the competitiveness of the forestry sector, in line with the lisbon objectives. there is growing concern about the economic viability of sustainable forestry in the european union in the context of globalisation. competitiveness is a key pillar of sustainable forest management and it is of crucial importance in maintaining the multiple benefits that forestry provides to society, including employment opportunities in rural areas where there is nothing else. forestry can deliver a wide range of products and services to society and we should try to develop this potential in the future. the second issue is that the forestry sector has to respond to social demands concerning the protection of the environment and the natural heritage, in accordance with the gothenburg objectives of sustainable development. the forestry sector as a whole will prosper best if it fits snugly into wider society. actively contributing to major european objectives, such as biodiversity, conservation or climate change mitigation, will offer new opportunities for forestry. in relation to a previous discussion, the possibility of biomass for energy is a clear example of how forestry can contribute. the last issue is the global importance of forestry for sustainable development and the need firmly to continue our support for international commitments for the protection and sustainable management of forestry worldwide. that also involves measures to combat illegal logging and related trade in forest products. those issues are well addressed in the report and i can assure you that they will be reflected in our action plans.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the incredible importance of forests for our continent and the fact that they affect a great many people. in sweden, forests and forestry account for nearly 30 percent of the swedish economy, and in europe there are over 15 million forest owners. what we decide here in the house therefore has a great deal of significance for many people, both in sweden and throughout europe. i know that there is a great deal of concern that the eu will intervene and start deciding, and that it will start to govern and decide on forestry issues from brussels. i can understand your concern. because that wouldn't be good. there are huge differences between an olive grove in southern italy and an industrial forestry in northern sweden. decisions about forests should be made locally, close to the people who know the forests, who use and own them. i would like to reassure those who fear such a development. i think the commission is very clear in its communication: forestry policy should be based on subsidiarity. we have made that clear in the environment committee. however, this does not mean that the eu has no responsibility. on the contrary, the eu has a great responsibility to take account of forests in all its decision-making. the eu already makes a large number of policy decisions that directly and indirectly affect european forests. however, we in the committee on the environment feel that there is almost no coordination between the various proposals concerning forests. it is damaging both to the compatibility of environmental objectives and to the conditions for forestry. i would therefore like to emphasize that i believe the commission's main task in the future is to coordinate existing policies and see how they affect the forest. in addition, ex ante evaluations must be carried out in good time, which can take into account the impact of different policy decisions on european forests and the forestry sector. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of forestry. it is perhaps the food that most clearly creates both economic and environmental value. however, as the commission points out, there are problems with the competitiveness of eu forestry in the global open field, which can cost environmental values. the message that i and the committee on the environment are sending you today is that by taking account of the forests, the commission should be able to create good, stable conditions for the forestry industry and thus give europe both a better economy and a better environment.
in writing. we moderates believe that the charter of fundamental rights must always be respected, whatever the issue or the legislation. we are in favour of the constitutional treaty, which would have made this statute legally binding on all eu citizens. we do not believe that only the labour law aspects of this statute should be mentioned in the services directive and have therefore abstained on the questions which mention the statute.
in writing. today the european parliament is giving its opinion on how we can create the free movement of services in the eu - one of the four freedoms on which our common european cooperation is based. in an increasingly globalised world economy with ever-increasing competition, the european economy needs to take advantage of the areas where we are competitive. the service sector is one such area. the compromise reached by the ppe-de and pse groups has unfortunately opened up new possibilities for the enactment of further protectionism which hinders trade in services between neighbouring countries and is a particularly hard blow to the newest member states. i have, however, voted in favour of the watered-down proposal today, as it may be a first step towards what i hope will be a free movement of services, already subject to competition, worthy of the name of our common european internal market.
in writing. junilista shares the view that the internal market in services is not complete. we welcome the services directive and believe that service companies, regardless of their country of origin, should not be discriminated against in any eu country. the central question in the debate on the services directive is whether the country of origin principle (article 16) should be the guiding principle of the directive. the junilista values both the single market and national self-determination. the basic question is therefore: does the principle of the country of origin imply such decisive advantages that we are prepared to renounce national sovereignty? our answer to that question is no. the country of origin principle concerns important but very limited areas such as construction, installation and consultancy services. we welcome competition in these areas, but believe that it should be on a level playing field for all parties. we believe that swedish rules should apply on swedish territory. we are therefore supporting the so-called host country principle. we also believe that national monopolies should be respected. the form these will take will be decided by a broad discussion in the member states. it follows from the above that we have chosen to support the compromise proposed by the ppe-de and pse.
in writing. the services sector is important and i would like to see a major step forward in this important market. unfortunately, today's vote is a modest step, which i regret. the unholy alliance between the conservatives and the social democrats is creating protectionist belts, legal disputes and restricting the labour market. this is something that europe's workers and consumers will lose out on. i regret that we are signalling to the new member states that there is still an 'us' and 'them'. i voted with great hesitation for the proposal, which is still a small step forward for the labour market.
in writing. today the european parliament has voted on one of the most important legislative issues we have ever dealt with - the services directive. the services directive aims to remove the obstacles to two of the freedoms that have existed in the ec treaty since 1958, the freedom of establishment for service providers and the freedom of movement for services. the potential for trade in services is enormous, and sweden is one of the countries that has the most to gain from a well-functioning market for services. the debate on the services directive has been extensive. the swedish and european trade unions argue that the directive contributes to 'social dumping'. this is not true, since the directive does not deal with labour law issues. the employment aspects have also been clarified by parliament's decisions. i want a good services directive which eliminates administrative rules and other barriers to trade. i also want the scope of the directive to be as broad as possible. that is why i voted for the inclusion of areas such as private health care, staffing companies and services of general economic interest. today's decision in parliament is based in part on a broad compromise. compromise is rarely perfect, but it is often necessary to achieve the goal. i hope that the eu member states will succeed in reaching a decision on this later this year, so that we can move forward on this very important issue.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on agriculture's examination of the strategic guidelines for rural development under the consultation procedure contains many heartwarming proposals. however, the european parliament is constantly trying to establish control over the agricultural and regional policies of the member states. that's what we're doing to the negatives. we believe that the member states cannot be bound by comprehensive rural development target documents. we have every confidence that the national or regional parliaments of the member states will deal with this matter well. we therefore voted against the amendments which the european parliament wishes to table to the council document on strategic guidelines for rural development.
in writing. the fight against poverty is one of the major challenges that all countries must address. the junilista group, however, argues that the work must be financed from the national budget of each country. international aid or other worthy projects may in no circumstances lead to the replacement of national taxation rights by eu taxation rights. we therefore vote against the resolution.
in writing. we are of the opinion that the eu should not develop a common forestry policy. this policy area is a matter of national concern. we would have liked the european parliament to have said that the aim should be to keep forestry policy a matter for national decision-making. we were given some hearing on this in the committee on the environment when we were discussing this report. but unfortunately, in accordance with its usual elephant disease, the majority in the european parliament has drawn up a report which, among other things, implies that the sectoral community policy and the lisbon strategy have consequences for forests and which advocates that an 'objective report should examine the possibilities of establishing a separate legal basis for forests' in the eu treaties. we are firmly opposed to such slippages in the political statements of the european parliament. once and for all it should be made clear that forestry policy is a national area of decision-making and nothing else. we cannot vote for a report which has a more or less hidden agenda of introducing a forestry policy at eu level to be pursued with funds from the eu budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank the rapporteur for a generally good report; i share most of the points. the report contains a generally low-key but nevertheless clear criticism of the imf's structural programmes and of the conditions imposed on the recipient countries. this is crucial, since these policies have actually worsened poverty and increased social problems in many countries. it is therefore crucial that the report's emphasis on poverty reduction and the achievement of the millennium development goals be included as the overarching policy objectives of the institution. in the longer term, this type of institution should probably be part of the un system and a coherent development policy. i also share the criticism of the lack of democracy in the imf. the crucial point here is that the power of the developing countries must increase. perhaps most importantly, they must have a more reasonable share of the votes when decisions are taken. however, democratization must also mean that a developing country can take over the presidency. it will not automatically go to one of the richest countries. the democratic control within the eu should also be increased, but it should be exercised by the national parliaments. i do not think it is reasonable to hand over the power of policy in the imf to the eu institutions and therefore oppose amendment no 5. i believe that the policy of the world trade organisation is a terrible example of the lack of democratic control over eu policy. for many years there has been a superstition about deregulation and free currency speculation. today, most currency movements are purely speculative. the protection against this, both nationally and internationally, is essential to achieving macroeconomic stability. we have tabled our own amendment to increase transparency and hope that it will be adopted. this is in line with the demand for greater democracy in the imf. we will vote against the ppe-de group's proposals but for most of the pse group's.
member of the commission. mr president, i would simply like to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur and the members of the committees who have contributed to the preparation of this report, which, as i said in my opening remarks, i find extremely useful. i stress the importance of the discussion which is taking place and which, in principle, is intended to be concluded at the fund assembly in singapore in september on a new allocation of quotas which, in turn, is linked to a new allocation of voting rights and, therefore, to the governance of the fund, which can be improved. i think it is important that the european voice should work together to set a clear direction on what this improvement in the governance of the fund and the representation of the different states, according to fair criteria, in the governing bodies of the fund should mean. i would stress the importance - and i think the vast majority of members will agree with me - of greater coordination between the countries of the european union in the positions of the european member states on the fund. as the coordination of economic policies progresses, as the integration of the different member states into the internal market, into economic and monetary union, deepens, and as we want this projection out of europe to have an economic dimension as well, it is important that this external economic dimension of the european union should also be reflected in the deliberations and discussions of the monetary fund. i believe that the role of the european parliament in relation to the monetary fund will advance as the coordination of the european voice in the institutions of the fund progresses, until at some point - i am convinced that it will be achieved, although not in the short term - a single voice and a single representation of the countries of the single european currency in the monetary fund. it is not for today, nor for tomorrow, but it is a direction which seems to me both inevitable and desirable. i would add, as a final comment, that reference has been made - and i share that concern - to the need for the imf to act in coordination with the strategies defined also in other areas by multilateral organizations and, in particular, by the organizations of the united nations system. i think we should be pleased because the imf is involved and committed to the achievement of the millennium development goals, which is a major objective of the international community. i believe that what might have been unthinkable 15 years ago is now a reality.
the imf's board of governors is composed of 25 people representing a single country or a group of countries. the eu countries are represented individually or as members of 9 of these groups. the nordic group is made up of the nordic countries and the baltic states. this includes countries such as norway and iceland which are not members of the eu. the role of the imf has changed since the imf was created shortly after world war ii. the main task from the outset was to help countries with current account problems to temporarily finance their current account deficits and to monitor the management of their economies within a fixed exchange rate system. it was also important that countries did not competitively devaluate their currencies. today, the euro countries, with the cb as their central bank, have a role similar to that of the imf. the euro countries have fixed exchange rates. any support loans to euro area countries in financial crisis may be managed within the eurosystem. countries outside the euro area have floating exchange rates and therefore do not run into exchange-rate imbalance problems. they also have better control over their debt ratios. the natural thing is that the euro countries form a common group in the imf with one seat. eu countries outside the euro area should not be included. nor is there any reason for sweden to join a common eu group. we would also lose our ability to actively influence the imf's relationship with developing countries.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this resolution is short and can be summed up in a single paragraph: close down the guantanamo. every form of human rights shines with its absence, and the whole invention is from beginning to end a matter of human error, not rights. in a single presidential term, the united states has gone from being a country that most people want to visit, trade with, and associate with to being a country that many people avoid. guantanamo may be a military base in cuba, but it's a cowardly attempt to evade the laws of the united states. we ask nothing less than that the united states abide by its own constitution and that the conventions of the united nations be obeyed. in either case, guantanamo is an absurdity. the bush regime is acting like an old-fashioned colonial autocrat in terms of the kyoto protocol, the international criminal court, abu ghraib, the war on the people of iraq and a host of other conventions covering everything from tobacco control to the right to food. these departures from international cooperation and international law are hurting the american people and the world at large. guantanamo detainees are not alone in suffering the oppression of the bush regime, even if they suffer the most. we also sympathize with the majority of americans who never supported the bush regime and who are victims of its arbitrary procedures. these ordinary citizens are the victims of the world's hatred and threats. the first step toward making amends for the bush regime would be to close guantanamo.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i had the honour of receiving a declaration from a group of young people who came to the european parliament on thursday. they were a little disappointed that they didn't get to meet any more of us, so i've promised to share with you what they had to say. they came from second chance school and their message is this: we, the young people from across europe, participating in the e2c youth summit in copenhagen in june 2005, hereby declare the following: all young people have the right to make decisions about their lives and create their own future. all young people have the right to an education at any level. all young people have the right to be different and to be as they really are. everybody should respect each other, and respect goes both ways. no young person should be discriminated against or suppressed. all young people should have homes, food and care. i really think we should take this into our future political work as a message from the schools we are fighting hard for, namely those which guarantee lifelong learning for all. (applause from the left)
questioned by the police. president. - the debate is closed. millions of people worldwide are looking forward to the forthcoming world cup, but how many thousands of women will be sacrificed so that men will not only watch football but also be able to buy readily available sexual services? in order to provide sufficient sexual services, tens of thousands of women must, often under duress, supplement the already large german group of prostituted women. this trafficking is unworthy and deeply inhuman, and it shows an oppressive view of women and a debasement of all the men who come to watch football. in order to stop violence against women and children, the responsibility for sex trafficking and prostitution must not be placed on the victims, but on those who take the right to buy and trade women's bodies. forced prostitution can be interpreted as the opposite, i.e. some form of so-called voluntary prostitution. but there is no voluntary prostitution; women do not choose prostitution they are forced into it for various reasons. it may be by becoming a victim of organized crime, but poverty and unemployment are other causes. but above all, there is a clear link between prostitution and the woman's past experience of physical, psychological and sexual abuse. the links between the legalization of prostitution and the growing sex-slave trade must be highlighted. what does the legalization of prostitution in germany mean for the increase in the number of victims of sex slavery in connection with the world cup, for example? legislation that allows prostitution must be evaluated and compared with, for example, the swedish legislation that criminalizes the client. swedish legislation has shown that it reduces demand and thus also the number of victims of trafficking and prostitution. the responsibility is put in the right place, it's put with the customer. they're the ones who have to take responsibility for their sexuality without buying women's bodies. if we accept that men take the right to buy women's bodies, then we also have to accept that some four million women and children are being transported across and between countries for sexual exploitation. condemning sexual exploitation and prostitution does not mean blaming women for prostitution. on the contrary! we want to give all women the right to their sexuality without oppression and on equal terms. women are not commodities. women are not for sale. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we are at a crossroads in the fight against trafficking in human beings. last week on 8 march, and again now, commissioner frattini announced that an extensive study will be launched this year on how laws on prostitution affect the situation of trafficking in the different member states. that is indeed good news. in september last year, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality presented a similar, smaller, study on the issue. it was the first of its kind. that study gave us a strong indication that criminalising the demand for trafficking has a very strong impact and that it substantially lowers the number of girls and young women being trafficked. legalisation, on the other hand, has the opposite effect. it increases the number of victims of trafficking. the figures also show clearly that not only does the legalisation of prostitution increase the legal part of the business, it also increases illegal prostitution. with the forthcoming study by the commission we will strengthen the factual basis for measures against trafficking, especially criminalising the demand. this is no longer just an issue of different opinions; it is an issue of facts. i warmly welcome commissioner frattini’s work on the issue. do we really want to fight trafficking? there is a way. are we brave enough?
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank mr papadimoulis for the extensive work he has done on this report. we live in a time when disasters seem to be becoming more common. a few years ago, iran was struck by a terrible earthquake. i remember it very clearly because i could see on tv every day that they had no help in digging up the living people under the ruins. just over a year ago, southeast asia was hit by a flood disaster that also hit my own country hard. there are stories from this disaster of how some of the eu member states saved their own citizens but left other people sitting next to them to their fate. it is clear, however, that the rescue operations would have worked better if eu cooperation had worked better. it is also true that aid could also have worked better in cases where eu member states have been affected by major floods, forest fires, etc. moreover, as climate change increases, these types of disasters are likely to become more common. that is why this instrument is extremely important. we social democrats have stressed that this instrument must work both within and outside the eu. in part because of the fact that our own citizens are often outside the union, but above all out of solidarity with other people. we also think it is very important that the eu should also cooperate with the un, which is the natural organisation. we have also tabled our own amendment on the budget for this instrument, which we hope everyone can support, because it states clearly that the budget is dependent on the negotiations on the budgetary plan. we also support the rapporteur on the legal basis and on extending the instrument to include disasters affecting public health. if we have to give priority to the budgetary work that is to follow, then the most important thing for us social democrats will be direct action and its preparation both within and outside the eu.
for the verts/ale group. i would like to thank mr matsakis for his exemplary work as rapporteur. the parcom agreement of 1990 already agreed that the chlor-alkali industry would phase out mercury by 2010. now we must get an export ban in place before then, otherwise it will export huge quantities of mercury. the largest deposits in europe are right there. it is important to have an export ban before then. we talk about safe landfills, but the second largest use today is 10 centimeters from our brains. i got my first amalgam-free filling 21 years ago. it's still holding. it's amazingly good quality. only 0.05 percent of dental fillings in children and adolescents in sweden today contain amalgam, while the corresponding figure for adults is two percent, and it is steadily decreasing. the swedish chemicals agency has shown that the environment and health are the main reasons why we have to get rid of this, and there are good alternatives. the amalgam fillings account for the vast majority of waste water discharges. you see here that three quarters come from amalgam and that the large part comes from dental clinics. thank you again, matsakis, for a great job.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his open approach to this report, which has been successful in one committee. he has done that in a most excellent way. i also share the rapporteur's view that restructuring is not something new. if i look at my own hometown, i can see that the big jobs that existed when i was a child are no longer there - it's completely new jobs that have grown up. as a result, society has changed, and the workplace is more high-quality today than it was when i was growing up. this development will continue. the new thing is that it is happening so much faster today in the globalised world, which is why we need to have restructuring as an instrument. it can be seen as a threat or an opportunity, but since we have chosen the path of saying that we will not compete with india and china, with their low wages and working conditions, but will maintain a high level of wages and good social conditions, restructuring must be an instrument of the lisbon process. but the question is how we will carry out the restructuring. first, we must have foresight. there are trends that we need to be able to see. we must also act in time, because if you act late, it is sometimes too late. then the factories will have to shut down, there will be no other options. we must act on the change in time. secondly, it must be done with participation. the social partners and employees must be involved in the whole process, so that the process can be prepared for restructuring in terms of skills development and other measures. thirdly, experience must be shared. i visited the dublin institute last weekend. there is extensive work and information on successful restructuring processes. i can say, for example, that already today 75 per cent of the employees in västervik, where electrolux closed down last year, have been given new jobs. the company, the social partners and the local community have worked together to create new jobs. in creating a new global fund, let us not forget the old instruments: the social fund, skills development and the responsibilities at national and regional level. i am a supporter of the globalisation fund if it is used to empower individuals and jobs and not to preserve old structures. but we should also use the old instruments, such as the social fund, to strengthen skills development.
for the gue/ngl group. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on women's rights, in particular the greens and sartori, for their dedicated work on this issue. i fully support it and so does the whole group. we recognise that an institute does not in itself increase equality, but that, if properly designed, it is a hugely important tool for successful equality work. i would like to point out two proposals which would further strengthen the work of the institute. the first concerns the possibility of an effective evaluation of the impact of decisions at all levels on women and men, and the second concerns the composition of the management board: six members from the council, six from the commission and three additional members from a workers' organisation, one from an employers' organisation and one from a voluntary organisation. i think that the latter three should also have the right to vote and that the ngo should be a women's organisation.
junilista believes that gender issues are important and that equal treatment of women and men is a matter of course in all contexts. the new eu institute for gender equality will analyse gender equality in the union, based on comparative data from each member state. the natural question is what added value this authority will bring. will it have a concrete and significant function, or is it mainly a way for the eu institutions to show their ability to act? will the authority contribute to the promotion of gender equality, or is it mainly a form of alibi, a way of showing that the union cares about gender equality issues? the arguments presented in the report are not convincing. the authority's tasks may be carried out within the framework of existing structures. the eu already has the central statistical office 'eurostat'. it can produce comparative statistics on gender equality in the eu countries. there are also national authorities dealing with gender issues. these authorities can cooperate across national borders. the commission is composed of 18 men and 7 women. about 30% of meps are women. the eu institutions should start by implementing gender equality within their own structures and thus set an example, before new centralised eu authorities are established. moreover, cooperation can take place in more decentralised forms, without the eu growing by creating new authorities for each pressing issue.
in writing. the report proposes the creation of a new european institute for gender equality. the basic position of the junilistas is that gender equality issues have a very high priority. equal treatment for women and men is an indispensable requirement that all eu countries must fulfil. this does not mean, however, that the eu should set up another bureaucracy for this purpose. sweden has come a long way in its gender equality work and junilistan is convinced that this work is best done at national level. a european-level gender equality institution means more bureaucracy and less efficiency. in order to engage citizens of both sexes in the fight for equality, it must be driven from below in the member states, not from above by employed eurocrats. the need for comparative statistics in this area can be met by eurostat. we have therefore decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. the eu has too many authorities and agencies. i shall nevertheless vote in favour of the establishment of this institution. gender equality is a disaster, not least symbolized by 83% of men in top positions, untimely parental leave rules, a total lack of gender education and miserable legislation. it may be worth several million to try to correct this a little bit with an institute that would complement the already existing one on discrimination against minorities. then it may be reasonable to have an institution on discrimination against the majority, which is women.
in writing. there are good reasons for member state governments to give priority to measures that reduce the risk of natural disasters. we are, however, questioning the prominent role that the european parliament wants the eu to play in this context. parliament called for the eu to play an active role in preventing disasters such as severe drought in spain and portugal or fires in southern european countries, for the eu to intervene in disasters outside the union through rescue services, etc., and for the budget for the rapid response and emergency mechanisms to be increased by eur 105 million (compared to the commission proposal) for the period 2007-13. we believe that it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to respond to natural disasters. many forms of natural disasters (such as droughts and fires) are recurrent and predictable. it should be fully possible for member states to carry out independently the investments which minimise the risk of such disasters occurring. in addition, the un already has an operational system to help countries affected by disasters and serious accidents. member states could well support this system, rather than building a parallel structure and thus risking unnecessary duplication of work. we have voted against this report on the basis of the above arguments.
in writing. the eu countries should build structures to help each other in the event of forest fires and other natural disasters; this is a typical area where international coordination is good and necessary. parliament also amends the legal basis, which increases the scope for citizens' influence. i therefore vote in favour, even though i lost the vote on the inclusion of terrorist attacks. i believe that these are of a very different nature and can be protected against in a very different way, and therefore should not be covered by the fund. this is a question of operations of a different nature and only the purely civilian parts, such as helping with the clean-up after an attack, should be covered. terrorism mainly affects countries with a colonial foreign policy which should be changed, but instead they want to spread that policy and its consequences to all eu countries. however, it is likely that only a very small part of it will be used for these purposes and it is therefore still an acceptable proposal.
in writing. we swedish social democrats support the hutchinson report in principle, but our view on relocations is as follows. we believe that eu funds should not be used to move production, because in practice this means moving around unemployment and pitting workers in different regions against each other. however, we do not consider that all relocations are generally wrong. the restructuring of industries must be possible in order to develop them. the increase in the level of knowledge and skills in a region or country may require relocations in order to develop the region.
in writing. an increasingly globalised world is creating new conditions. it creates new problems to deal with and it creates new opportunities to take advantage of. the european parliament is voting today on alain hutchinson's own-initiative report on relocation in a regional development perspective. we have voted against the report because we think it is a wrong approach to the problem of relocation of businesses. we agree that it is not justified for eu funds, including from the structural funds, to finance improved conditions of competition for european companies which shortly afterwards decide to move their operations outside the eu. however, neither the state nor the eu authorities should intervene in the way companies conduct their business and what requirements apply to prevent companies from making rational decisions to survive. we don't create full employment through increased government regulation, we create it by facilitating more businesses and new investment in the private market. we cannot therefore vote for further restrictions on the mobility of companies within the internal market, as proposed in this report. in order to overcome the problems and the displacement caused by a globalised market, we therefore need a different starting point from this new trend based on economic patriotism.
in writing. this report, which is outside the legislative procedure, deals with an important issue. however, we would have liked to have formulated the problem differently. we believe that we cannot interfere in the relocation of companies to third countries outside the eu. as a rule, market considerations should determine localisation at global level. in this context, eu countries can make efforts to compete in terms of, for example, offering knowledge, skills and stability. as regards relocations of businesses within the union, we must tackle the problem of individual member states offering discriminatory tax breaks and state aid as a complement to eu structural aid. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the profitability of the company in the period considered. we see this as a major problem in the eu's internal market. the rapporteur also mentions in his explanatory statement that a relocation monitoring centre could be set up within the eu. instead of a new supervisory body, the commission must be responsible for monitoring closures due to restructuring and discriminatory tax systems. we therefore vote against the report. in principle, we consider the subject to be important, but we would have liked to see a resolution with a different approach to this important issue.
in writing. junilista supports the proposal to take measures to reduce and eventually phase out mercury emissions. this is a transnational environmental issue where a common and coordinated approach is warranted. we have therefore voted in favour of this report. we do, however, have some comments on certain points in the european parliament's proposal. for example, we believe that the member states are fully capable of carrying out information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury on their own. we also believe that it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to deal with the social consequences of mercury mine closures, rather than the eu.
commissioner, what is it? the union's history of anti-dumping is appalling. well-organized special interests are allowed time and again to seek through customs small profits that come at great cost to consumers. when the commission introduced duties on television sets, consumers had to pay two crowns for every crown earned by the industry. in the case of the duties on pakistani bed linen, each crown for the producers cost our consumers three crowns. in the case of norwegian salmon, the situation was even worse: each norwegian krone of profit for the salmon farmers cost the consumers as much as 70 kroner. the commission consistently fails to take adequate account of consumers and thus the community interest. now they are about to make the same mistake again with shoes from china and vietnam but this time we know in advance the price of the policy. the danish government carried out a study which showed that the costs to consumers in the union are eight times greater than the profits to producers, and in total the union loses over two and a half billion kroner. for sweden, the figure is even more frightening. every swedish krona earned by swedish producers costs swedish consumers 44 krona. in total, swedish consumers are expected to pay almost 60 million more for their shoes. the only country in the union where there is an estimated wine store is slovakia. the estimated salary is $300,000. it will be cheaper if we here in the european parliament scrape together the money, so that the citizens will not have to pay the cost. honestly, i don't think this is a mistake. the commission has nevertheless deliberately chosen to compare with expensive shoes from brazil, measuring the increase in imports before the quota was abolished with that after the quota was abolished. i am seriously concerned about the growing protectionism i am facing in the union and i hope that this is the last time the commission will give in to protectionist demands at the expense of the citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr. minister, thank you very much for that answer. unfortunately, the dialogue on human rights in iran is not working. nothing has happened. the human rights abuses that are taking place in iran today are extremely widespread. it's a regime that violates most human rights. this comes into the background when we discuss the nuclear programme, which is of course extremely urgent. i think that a well-thought-out approach is needed to deal with this in iran and i wonder if we could perhaps use the experience of supporting the belarusian opposition by broadcasting in belarusian from europe to the opposition. i wonder if there's something to be learned from that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as the question points out, eu companies contribute to infrastructure projects in the occupied territory. it is a project that is clearly contrary to international law and international humanitarian law. these include the tramway link to settlements and the new railway being built to jerusalem and across the occupied west bank. the french company connex is contributing to that construction. what is the council's view of the involvement of eu companies in this illegal activity?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i shall speak about the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. båda dessa kommittéer har spelat ut sin roll. deras värde för eu står inte i proportion till de kostnader som dagens konstruktion medför. kommittéernas ursprungliga tanke var att öka eu:s demokratiska legitimitet. i dag har dock europaparlamentet i stor utsträckning tagit över denna roll. kvar är i stället en regionkommitté vars egen ansvarsfrihet tenderar att ifrågasättas av flertalet av budgetutskottets ledamöter. vi har även sett hur såväl fackförbund som arbetsgivarparter drivit framgångsrika kampanjer utanför ekonomiska och sociala kommittén. ingen ifrågasätter att dessa parter numera är väl etablerade och kan göra sin röst hörd utan hjälp från en eu-finansierad institution. vi bör i eu i stället vända oss direkt till berörda parter för remissutlåtanden. här finns outnyttjade möjligheter till besparingar. det vore dessutom en fördel att man skulle få remissvar från organisationer och parter som inte nödvändigtvis är helt beroende av eu:s budget. jag menar därför att anslagen i 2007 års budget bör begränsas kraftigt.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to make some general reflections on the whole of the lisbon agenda. in my view, it is based on a misunderstanding of how economies and, for that matter, human civilizations develop through history. we have had a moment in history when europe became the most dynamic knowledge-based region in the world. it was from the late 1700s and the 1800s. it started with changes in britain, legislation on economic matters, the abolition of the scrapyard, and so on. the advances were enormous and rapid, and they spread rapidly to large parts of the world. steam engines, spinning jennys, etc., were also used in other countries. that's how development happens. the idea that there are now exceptionally clever people who know in detail what measures should be taken in european countries to achieve a favourable development towards a knowledge-based dynamic region is completely wrong. countries are looking for solutions. they look at each other eagerly, imitating good solutions. that's how development happens. keeping on like this is something that's going to take our minds off the track. we should be dealing with real issues in the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall concentrate for this brief moment on an amendment by the socialist group in which we welcome the proposal by the heads of government of six countries to establish a european pact for equality between women and men. we propose action in three areas. firstly, we want to reduce the gender imbalance in the labour market, secondly, to facilitate the reconciliation of work and parenting and thirdly, to introduce a gender perspective with follow-up in all policy areas. the aim of this pact is not to create a new process but to strengthen the processes already in place, such as the lisbon process, in order to achieve the goals of sustainable growth, full employment and social justice. the goal of childcare and the possibility of combining work and parenting is particularly important.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we discuss the lisbon process, we can see that it is succeeding more or less well in different countries. countries that have implemented reforms and changes are better able to cope with both globalisation and competitiveness. those who have not implemented reforms are doing worse. but what is remarkable is how little has actually happened at the common european level, how little we have increased the scope for expansion for new companies, new products, new services and new markets. the commission's overall task is first and foremost to combat the new protectionism we see emerging among governments and politicians in europe. the new protectionism is directed at the new member states and the outside world where the large future markets are located, but it is also directed at and growing between the old member states. the overall task of managing the lisbon process is to combat this protectionism. it is contrary to the treaty and to all that european integration is. europe has great potential. where we have carried out reforms, we have succeeded. take the telecommunications market, for example. that's where we're most successful. what the commission must do is to make clear the importance of safeguarding the free trade that has built europe's prosperity. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the role of the european parliament in the fight against fraud and corruption. it's the results that count, not the goals. then we can give europe a new future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was referring to rule 140 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. it says that we have the right to access the documents directly via parliament's internal computer system. i'd like you to review the contract with the private company that will provide this service. both our democratic and economic interests require that this should happen.
in writing. we are strongly critical of the eu's destructive fisheries agreements with third countries. we therefore regret that the eu is opting to conclude fisheries agreements with new countries. recurrent reports have highlighted the negative impact of the fisheries agreements on the coastal population of the contracting countries. the agreements lead to overexploitation of fishing waters, which affects the local population. however, the commission and an overwhelming majority of the european parliament have consistently chosen to turn a blind eye to this criticism. the fisheries agreement in question may also have negative environmental consequences, according to one of parliament's opinions. while the eu advocates increased aid, citizens' taxpayers' money is used to finance fisheries agreements that impede development. this is neither a consistent nor credible policy. we believe that the fisheries agreements should be dismantled and that they should be abolished in the long term. the cost of the agreement should be borne by the member states of the union whose vessels fish in third country waters. these member states may then decide independently whether they will finance this expenditure by charging fees to their fishing vessels.
in writing. we, the moderates, have voted in favour of the report in question, but we regret that the protection of fundamental rights is not sufficiently highlighted at eu level and believe that the jurisdiction of the court should include the fundamental rights of individuals also in matters of internal security.
in writing. the own-initiative report on the evaluation of the european arrest warrant against adelaine hazan will help us to further strengthen the legal certainty for our citizens. the report points to improvements that have been made. i would, however, like to emphasize the problems which still constitute an obstacle to the guarantee of legal certainty and which are mentioned in the report. it is of the utmost importance that translation, interpretation and legal assistance be guaranteed to persons arrested under the european arrest warrant. it is the responsibility of each member state to remedy this important problem which today involves human rights violations.
in writing. this report shows a clear commitment to enhanced cooperation in the field of criminal justice. the council was asked to prohibit member states from re-introducing a systematic double criminality check and to integrate the arrest warrant into the first pillar. the report highlights major problems in the implementation of the arrest warrant. member states have clearly indicated their wish to preserve parts of the traditional extradition system. some countries have refused to execute arrest warrants for their own citizens, citing fundamental rights or discrimination. others have retained or reintroduced double criminality controls. the junilist considers that this is a clear sign that the member states are safeguarding their sovereignty in the area of criminal justice. impeachment or serving a sentence are some of the most far-reaching measures that can be taken against an individual. in this case, legal certainty must take precedence over the simplification and efficiency that the report claims the arrest warrant generates. the junilista rejects the idea of extended supranationality and considers it to be a national issue. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. we support the resolution because we believe it is important to focus on measures to reduce the number of victims of the sex slave trade. however, we believe that the resolution should cover all forms of prostitution. the word "forced prostitution" can be interpreted as if there is an opposite, so-called "voluntary" prostitution. we believe that all prostitution is forced - no woman chooses to prostitute herself voluntarily. she is forced to do so for various reasons, such as poverty and unemployment, but above all there is a clear link between the choice to become a prostitute and previous physical, psychological and/or sexual abuse.
in writing. in the report on restructuring and employment, the rapporteur, jean louis cottigny, adopts the same sad attitude as in the report on relocation in a regional development perspective, which was voted on yesterday. yesterday we voted against this economic protectionism and today we are voting against it. once again, it is our firm view that it is hardly the state or the eu that should tell companies how to restructure. but we should not hide our heads in the sand and pretend that certain restructuring and relocation of businesses do not affect people and social conditions in the area concerned. we support the call for a stronger dialogue between the social partners on these issues, but the negative effects can be addressed in other ways than by preventing the private sector from developing. instead, we should focus our energy on improving the conditions for more long-term jobs to be created through more enterprises.
in writing. the eu has long been taking policy action to address restructuring in various sectors. this report contains some positive proposals for changes to these measures, such as more effective control of the resources disbursed from the community funds and the non-use of the funds for relocations within the union. the basic junilist position is that the consequences of relocations and restructuring are national issues. we do not believe that the eu should take action to hold companies to account. this type of important issue is to be decided in the member states. parliament called for: the establishment of criteria for the conditions under which restructuring may be carried out (to save jobs, improve competitiveness and not for purely profit-making purposes, etc.), the creation of a special fund for 'adjustment to growth', the union's responsibility for the 'hidden effects' of restructuring, such as the consequences for workers' health, psychological problems and increased mortality among those who are dismissed, the participation of employees in companies, since they become the actors in decisions on restructuring, views on the fact that member states prematurely retire workers as a consequence of restructuring. regardless of political opinion on the above issues, this is a national issue. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the report is generally good and highlights many of the problems of a short-term speculative economy. that is why i am voting for it. the report does, however, make a positive reference to the fund which the commission intends to set up. this fund would involve direct payments to individuals and would be the embryo of the eu taking over social policy, which would be an unfortunate development. if this fund is introduced, however, it is good that private funds are involved and finance a reasonable part of it. i am voting against new eu directives on labour law in restructuring as this would undermine the swedish model of collective agreements between the social partners.
in writing. this report contains a long list of calls on the member states to take action to tackle the relative poverty in their respective member states. there are of course good reasons for member states to cooperate on this type of issue, for example by voluntarily exchanging experience and best practice. however, social inclusion and poverty are issues to be dealt with at national level or through voluntary cooperation between member state governments. it is difficult to see what added value or specific competence the european parliament brings by acting as an opinion machine on this and similar issues. the report proposes that: member states should increase lifelong learning opportunities (paragraph 11), member states should provide access to good quality childcare at low cost (paragraph 24), member states should reform their pension systems to ensure maximum social equity (paragraph 44), member states should not increase the overall taxation of labour through reforms of their public pension systems (paragraph 45). the junilista advocates that important issues such as the above should be decided through a broad national debate. member states shall then decide on the appropriate legislation and relevant measures, either independently or in voluntary cooperation with appropriate actors, in the ordinary democratic procedure. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. in the final vote we voted in favour of the 2007 budgetary guidelines, despite our serious objections on two points. we are against the development of a special statute for members' assistants. the assistants are thus at risk of living in conditions which are quite different from those of the citizens in the constituencies in which they are to work. there is also a significant risk that the assistant will become a special lifelong career. we also oppose the establishment of a european centre in brussels to carry out information policy on the eu.
in writing. we welcome the introduction of more environmentally friendly fishing methods. however, we are critical of the proposal that the eu should introduce a support and compensation system for professional fishermen who are negatively affected by the introduction of more environmentally friendly fishing methods. the report does not mention the amount of compensation or the budget line from which this compensation is to be paid. we support the involvement of fishermen and their representative organisations in the design of measures to protect the marine environment and to restore fish stocks (amendment no 1). we are opposed to the proposal for community financing of the proposed compensatory measures for fishermen (amendment no 2). we are critical of additional budgetary expenditure within the eu and have chosen to vote against this report as a whole.
in writing. in this resolution, parliament addresses the areas where action is required by the national parliaments to achieve the agreed objectives of increased growth and employment in europe. the lisbon strategy is based on the member states implementing what has been agreed. the lisbon strategy must not become an argument for constantly demanding increased appropriations from the eu budget. the junilista group instead believes that the lisbon strategy must be included in the budget of each member state. the resolution also calls for the eu budget to be increased to meet the objectives of the lisbon strategy. for that reason, we choose to vote against the resolution. the resolution contains many positive proposals, but it is based on the assumption that the eu should have a budgetary plan, which we do not support. the responsibility for implementing the lisbon strategy lies with the member states, which is why it is important that their membership fee to the eu is not increased but that they have a margin to take action themselves on what is needed within the lisbon strategy. we therefore voted against the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe-de, pse and alde groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, madam president of the council! it's great that you're keeping a high profile on the balkans. we all have an interest in the stabilization and democratization of that region. the eu really has the potential to play an important role. i wish you both good luck in bringing your colleagues in the other member states to the same high level of ambition. i want you to know that you have the liberal group with you. the various initiatives to get countries to cooperate with each other and with us are very good. it is also good that it has finally been decided to build on cefta, which already exists and actually works, instead of creating something new as was discussed earlier. i think it's a very wise decision. at the same time, it is also about different countries with different traditions, different histories and different levels of development. it is therefore important that we maintain the message that all these countries are welcome to join the european community if they so wish, and that they will then be treated on their own merits. there is a concern today in some quarters that we want to bring the countries back together and that they will be treated as a collective. i think that concern is overblown, but it's very important to be very, very clear on that point, that each country is treated on its own merits. as for the death of slobodan milosevic, he was a despicable dictator, responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and for much of the tragedy that has unfolded. i also regret that the trial could not be completed and i think it was obvious that it was a rather pathetic man who ended his days. we must still be crystal clear that radovan karadzic and ratko mladic are to be released, and that this should be done now. there's no room for compromise there.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. enlargement is the eu's greatest success in european cooperation. the unification of east and west in may 2004 marked the end of europe's division and demonstrated the power of the dream of a united europe based on democracy, open trade and respect for the rule of law. the eu membership was the carrot that helped the strong reform forces in the former communist dictatorships, the prospect of membership also has a huge significance for the negotiations and reforms in turkey and the balkans. the eu has a tremendous source of so-called soft power here, which contributes to a more stable and democratic europe. we in my group believe that it is important to keep the door open for further enlargement, as the treaty says. of course, the criteria must be applied, and the eu's capacity to receive is important. but we need to change internally and not blame enlargement, but take that discussion. i am aware that there is a debate in many countries and a concern that the eu is growing too fast and how it should go. that conversation must be conducted in a humble and forthright manner, but we must also have the courage to stand up for and highlight the benefits of enlargement. in this context, the debate on economic protectionism is very worrying. we have a responsibility to our neighbours. the promises to the balkans and turkey must be kept. they set the pace, and we do what we can to speed it up. we must also remain open to other countries such as ukraine and perhaps also, one day, belarus, even though the situation there is now extremely worrying. the hope of european membership is what keeps the opposition and democratic forces alive there. that is why we are opposed to defining the geographical boundaries of europe as europe. this parliament has been pushing for enlargement and we stood in the chamber in brussels, wearing orange scarves, a year ago and applauded president yushchenko. we adopted a resolution in which we spoke about ukraine's prospects for membership. it's a goal it may be far away. the people of ukraine are weighing, as brok said, between democracy and dictatorship. if we set limits on europe, they will see it as if we were throwing the door back in their faces. it would be a historic mistake. instead of introducing new concepts, such as multilateral agreements, let us first - as commissioner rehn said - take the opportunity to individualise and concretise the neighbourhood strategy for those members. now, to bring up new concepts that we haven't really discussed and that we don't know what they mean doesn't feel very fruitful at the moment. (applause from the left)
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. of course, in many ways today is a historic day that we have established a mr council. the european parliament has raised this issue before and we know that it is indeed possible to change the human rights situation if we work hard and are united. we are fully supportive of the un in this work. the decision on the mr council was one of the few concrete decisions taken in september and it is therefore very gratifying that such a council actually exists today. that we have a permanent body that takes away those six weeks of intense lobbying in geneva, where it has been constantly being adjusted as to who should support which resolution, just as you said. if we have a permanent body to lead this, we hope that we will also get rid of the fact that some of the worst rogue states have chaired the sessions in geneva. i also share the analysis that it is somewhat weaker than hoped. i agree with coveney that a two-thirds majority would have been better. the regional quota system currently in force for the appointment of representatives in the council will unfortunately mean that even states which violate human rights will be represented. but the secret ballot and the possibility of excluding countries is still a big step forward. i hope that the eu will continue to be unanimous and consistent and not shy away from pointing out that a country in the council is seriously violating human rights. because the eu, when it is united, can play a fantastically important role in the un. we in my group would like to see a common european seat on the un security council eventually. this is a big step forward. it is now up to the evidence, it is important to be able to act quickly when crises arise but also not to forget the less media-sexy events, the permanent violations of human rights in a few strange, forgotten places. if the mr council can take advantage of these people's rights, we have taken a big step forward.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to both trakatellis and kyprianou. you've done a good job of it. but we find ourselves in an absurd situation when we spend five times as much money on tobacco subsidies as on health promotion. five times more money spent destroying health than helping. what i think is good is that this report focuses on prevention. the resources are so limited that they are only enough to share good examples, disseminate information and cooperate. but it is at the national level that the big money is and where the big work will be done. the good thing about the amendments of the european parliament, and i would like to stress that they are important, is amendment no 53. and because the money is so limited, it cannot go to lobbying organizations, or covert lobbying organizations, for the pharmaceutical industry. it is good to check carefully that this is not the case. amendments nos 92 and 144, which deal with equality, have not been mentioned so far. i think that's an important aspect that we have to consider. too much of the money goes to men's health care and too little goes to women's health care. but the great things that europe can do here are in health and trade. the public health articles of the treaty hardly apply to trade policy. where is the health dimension of this policy in relation to alcohol? the same goes for chemicals and pesticides - that is where the big action has to be taken. commissioner, you can make a first contribution to that overall vision by not approving the eight new pesticides that are in the pipeline. they are bioresistant, endocrine disrupting and carcinogenic class 2. yes, that's a long list of perfect reasons to ban a chemical. you can take that chance now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have had several comments on the commission's health plan and i have had some quarrels, but i think it has turned out really well and i would like to thank both mr kyprianou and mr trakatellis for that. health first is a matter for the member states has been self-evident to me. i am glad that the majority of the house agrees with me. what we do at eu level should bring clear added value for patients. there are three areas in which i have been involved and which i would like to highlight today. first of all, the starting point of this report is and must always be that the individual's own commitment to his own health is of the utmost importance. that is why we politicians, in health care and in public health work, must always regard citizens, even if they happen to be sick, as adults with rights and obligations. with the right to control their own lives and their own health care. we must never forget that our own commitment to our own health is always the best medicine. it is therefore regrettable that the social democrats want to delete the wording which refers to the commitment to one's own health. as meps, we must also facilitate mobility within and between countries, so that everyone can seek the treatment and care they most believe in. today, free movement in the eu is least for those who need it most, i.e. patients. for them, the borders of europe become little berlin walls that stand in the way of their access to treatment. for them, freedom of movement can be a matter of life and death. we should not believe that the most important elements of the good society can be regulated and organized by a planned economy, which has so clearly proved to be the economic model most destructive of creativity and household life. we need more choice and mobility. we must also work to improve access to health information. to us as decision-makers, to the performers and, not least, to the users. we need to be able to compare outcomes, not just costs, as we do today. this is necessary both to learn from each other and to enable users to benefit from the mobility and freedom of choice granted to them by the court of justice. it is for the benefit of europe's patients. up until about world war ii, you were a victim when you came into contact with medical care. you were usually healthier before the doctor was called than after. with the development of treatments and medicines, we have become patients in the health care system. but i am convinced that in the near future we will be consumers of health care, and we must help create this shift in perspective. victims yesterday, patients today, health care consumers tomorrow. it would be a wonderful development that i think would make us healthier, but also freer.
in writing. the report recommends that the eu establish a separate community programme on health for the period 2007-13. the budget for this programme is proposed by the european parliament to be eur 1 200 million (the commission proposes eur 969 million). the junilists are of the firm opinion that health matters are essentially a matter for the member states. several of the objectives mentioned by the rapporteur (such as combating ill health caused by tobacco, alcohol and poor diet) can be pursued by the member states independently. the principle of subsidiarity is thus not sufficiently taken into account. of course, international cooperation is necessary in connection with, for example, viral epidemics and complex medical issues. however, international cooperation should mainly take place through multilateral agreements and within the framework of the activities already carried out by the world health organisation (who). we reject the allocation of additional funds for this purpose and have chosen to vote against this report on the basis of the above reasoning.
in writing. i think that designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs are often good because they strengthen and develop local production and trade as opposed to the dominance of the wto brand giants on the global market, but i am opposed to the eu deciding on mandatory labelling for these goods; this should continue to be voluntary.
in writing. geographical indications and designations of origin are a source of wealth for europe. sharing our culinary heritage is enriching. at the same time, however, the disadvantages of these designations must be borne in mind. we do not want appellations of origin to be used for protectionist purposes. for a couple of centuries, european immigrants have been making food and drink in their new home countries, bringing with them traditions from their countries of origin. the european union must have a tolerance within the world trade organisation for such traditions and for the fact that trade names and designations of origin may sometimes collide. the two reports by the european parliament on this subject are merely supplementary proposals in accordance with the consultation procedure. we believe that they have little to add, although some of the proposals are better to than against, and that this subject should be discussed in the council of ministers. we also strongly reject the idea that an eu authority could be given the task of controlling geographical indications and designations of origin. we believe that we must trust the authorities of the member states in this matter. we have therefore voted against both these reports.
in writing. we swedish social democrats want to see an open and united europe that welcomes new members on the basis of the copenhagen criteria. we therefore regret that the report places too much emphasis on the eu's own absorption capacity, as this may give the impression that the european parliament is questioning the eu's ability to include more members. the eu's own absorptive capacity ultimately depends on the union's willingness to include more members. we are also concerned about any tendency to exclude countries from membership on the basis of, for example, their economic situation.
in writing. this own-initiative report addresses the important issue of continued enlargement of the eu. the junilists are in principle in favour of further enlargement of the eu, provided that the prospective member states share the fundamental values which form the basis of the union's values. this includes, in particular, respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy. as to other laws not covered by the above, nations are sovereign. the rapporteur also proposes a very substantial increase in the budget, equivalent to about sek 25 billion, which we are opposed to. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. on 1 may 2004, the eu was enlarged by 10 new member states from eastern and central europe. countries that were once behind the iron curtain have, with the help of the eu as a carrot and stick, developed into democracies with market economies. this is a historic event. we must now fulfil our promises of continued enlargement to countries such as romania, bulgaria and croatia. but we must also keep the door open for new applications. those who meet the requirements will be admitted to membership. today we are voting on a draft strategy for further enlargement. it proposes that the eu should define its geographical boundaries. i will vote against that. the borders cannot be locked. the establishment of frontiers for europe would, for example, make the ukrainian people, who are now weighing between democracy and dictatorship, feel that we are throwing the door in their faces. it would be a historic setback.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. because we had so much to do in the morning, this debate has been postponed a little and it is unfortunate that the rapporteur and many others who have worked on this issue cannot be here, but that is the way it is. i was suddenly given a lot of speaking time by my group and turned down the last five minutes, even though i was offered to sing a song. but i won't. the single market has created millions of jobs and increased prosperity. it has erased boundaries and opened doors. we can live, travel, study and work - whatever we want. consumers have access to a host of new products. we must therefore go further and also create a single consumer market. this means a common regulatory framework and a high level of consumer protection throughout the eu. as cross-border trade increases, so does trade at the individual level. then you have to know what the product is that i'm buying, what i do if there's something wrong with the product, how i can appeal, what the regulations are. how do i know this product really does what it claims to do? what are the possibilities for service, warranty and dispute resolution? this must be guaranteed if we are to regain the confidence of the citizens, because this is an everyday issue that concerns the conditions of the everyday consumer and this is what we need to work on at eu level. it is therefore very good that the commission has put forward this proposal for a long-term multiannual programme for consumer protection. the liberal group, however, does not agree with the commission on the need to combine consumer protection with public health. we share the rapporteur's view that they should be kept separate. these are two separate policy areas with different approaches, although there are, of course, points of contact. you should keep the two separate. we do not want any special authority or agency in this respect either. other important issues which we are very pleased to have included are the view that consumer policy needs to be integrated into all policies, that it is important to cooperate with the consumer organisations that are around us in our member states and that those states which have not yet made progress in the field of consumer protection can receive extra support and attention. i am very glad that we have been able to agree on this and that there is a broad consensus among the groups on this. i would like to thank mrs thyssen - i hope she reads the minutes - for the foresight and cooperation she has shown. we are ambitious in consumer issues, both in terms of cooperation and evaluation and information. so, of course, there must be a proper budget. i hope that there will also be good cooperation in future with regard to the consumer programmes which the commission will present later this autumn. in fact, perhaps the opposite should have been done, i.e. first the major political guidelines and then this programme, but that is the way it is now. we stand behind this and will support the report by a large majority - or indeed, i think unanimously - when it is voted on at the next partsession.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's not all black and white in kazakhstan. compared to some other countries in the region, there are also positive things happening, such as a moratorium on the death penalty and police being prosecuted for torture. but the latest, and paradoxical, development is that as the opposition grows and strengthens, so does the repression against it. these two murders have made things worse. the osse said the election was not conducted properly. actually, it's a completely unnecessary cheating, because he would have won the election anyway according to all the opione studies. with the media situation there, maybe it's not so strange. there is also a climate of fear. governors didn't dare report the worst numbers and are happy to add a little extra votes for fear of losing money or position. such a climate cannot exist in a democracy, and we must be careful. the european parliament does not really ask for much. only that kazakhstan follows its own constitution and that court orders are required for arrest, for example. in paragraph 3, we say we want international observers to investigate the murder. the fbi has been invited to participate in the investigation of the murders and we should ensure that other international agencies also receive information about the murders, so that we can have transparency in the investigation and clarification.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ladies and gentlemen, representatives of austria and commissioner. europe is enormously and unimaginably dependent on imports, which puts us in a very worrying situation. we need to review production and distribution and regulate the market in such a way that it works, namely to regulate consumer rights and transmission capacity and to review the dominant position of the large energy companies. we are not using the technology that exists, we are cutting research funding in the budget negotiations that are under way and industry is not getting the clear signals that they need to dare to invest, and to invest for the long term. member states choose their own energy mix, which is good. we are now at a stage where the green paper has arrived. we in the alde group support it and think it is very good. this is also the work neelie kroes does on competition. but mr winkler, you began by saying that at eight o'clock on the 1st of january europe was hit by an energy shock, and we were hit by russia. in this situation, many national heads of government are now nervous and want to re-regulate. they want protectionism in the energy sector which is in direct opposition to what the council has said before, to what the commission wants and to what parliament wants. it is a shame that we are at a stage where we can help the new member states to achieve a stable energy situation with solidarity and where we can solve major environmental problems. it is a shame to make these arguments when we can also create so many jobs in europe. i am sorry to say that our own swedish prime minister, göran persson, has today said that he wants to re-regulate the swedish energy market. if you do what you have always done, you will get what you have always got, but we cannot afford such a situation in europe anymore. we need very tough decisions and the responsibility lies heavily with austria, which is chairing the council of ministers at tomorrow's meeting.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are two things that are important to define in the common european task in the field of energy policy, and which i think we must clarify. the first is that one of the obvious tasks for us together is to ensure that the internal market functions. there are many obstacles here today. it is all about ensuring that businesses can grow together across borders, and ensuring that the internal market can function, both legally and technically. we need common networks because it is a way of achieving many of the objectives we share. we'll have more competition and lower prices through joint networks. if we are to have an opportunity for renewable fuels to grow, we need a larger market where they can also be marketed and developed on a commercial basis. the reduction of vulnerability is achieved through common grids, and the possibility of simultaneous access to safe and cheap electricity. the second common task in the field of energy policy is, of course, that of foreign and trade policy. i think that it is crucial, once again, for solidarity between countries that we have the common networks. we can talk about solidarity and solidarity clauses all we want, but the fact is that it is only with common networks, such as those of countries like estonia, latvia and lithuania, or any other country that can be subject to political blackmail, that we will be able to achieve real solidarity. then it becomes a reality, not just a political goal. in foreign and trade policy, any cooperation with russia must be based on clear and transparent terms of trade and distribution. the union must support a policy which leads to a commitment by russia to deliver to each individual member state under safe conditions. that is why we have a good energy policy, and that is why we have solidarity, and that is why we have a better europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite the success of 10 european parties, the democratic legitimacy of this parliament, among others, has been diminished in elections. the report says that there is a gap between the citizens and the eu institutions, which is true, but the solution to this is not financial support for european parties, but democracy should be strengthened, inter alia, by returning power to the national parliaments. it is also said that a union close to the citizens is a prerequisite for the next step in european integration to be supported by the citizens. so, to convince the citizens to accept the rejected constitution, contributions will be allocated to the european parties. all democratic forces can of course form parties, but to think that by distributing large financial contributions one is going to get the citizens to accept the draft constitution is not only trying to buy acceptance, it is also very doubtful democratically.
the member states are facing significant demographic challenges. however, the conditions and problems differ from one member state to another. for this reason, as well as for democratic reasons, national solutions are needed. it is unreasonable for the european parliament to put forward detailed policy recommendations which are expected to be acceptable to all member states. the report in question contains a long list of calls for action by member states in such pressing areas as social security, taxation, working time and immigration. the paths to be taken by each member state in important policy areas must be decided by national democratic processes and not imposed from above. political and social progress is made by countries experimenting and trying out different solutions that can be compared. then you learn from each other. it is through such processes that european culture has grown and, in effect, conquered the world. european solutions and ways of thinking have been successful precisely because they have emerged through institutional competition between different countries rather than being decided centrally. the report under discussion is another example of the european parliament's slow but steady attempt to gain increasing influence over national policy issues. i deplore this process and criticize the near-inexistence of opposition in the european parliament to this undemocratic development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would appreciate it if the president could speak a little more slowly, because the interpretation will come a little later.
in writing. the current situation in the democratic republic of congo is very worrying. the country has long been plagued by great instability, which has led to brutal violence against civilians, famine and a very serious situation throughout the great lakes region. we are, however, positive about the fact that elections are now being held. we in junilist strongly oppose the use of the mission in the democratic republic of congo to further strengthen the eu's common foreign and security policy. the situation in the democratic republic of congo must be resolved, but not by the contribution of a joint eu force. it is up to each member state, at the request of the un, to decide whether to provide troops or not. we have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. it is important that we have political parties at european level. they play a significant role in disseminating political information and knowledge about european politics, in promoting democratic values and in creating a european consciousness. however, we do not believe that the eu should decide how membership, lists and nominations are to be handled. it must be up to each party to regulate how they want to deal with such matters
in writing. we are opposed to the subsidy system which is now being set up for european political parties. parties must be built from the bottom up by the parties in the member states. if these member parties do not find it justified to increase their funding for their european party, it may be questioned whether there is really a need for european political parties to exist. we consider it reprehensible to start parties at eu level that are heavily subsidised by the eu taxpayers. we therefore vote against this report.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on demographic challenges and solidarity between generations. we voted against the report that higher taxes to fund social security are a less sustainable solution in the long term. furthermore, we interpret an increase in the retirement age as an increase in the actual retirement age, not the statutory one. since the text was not sufficiently clear on this point, we could not support it. we also do not support the european parliament calling on the member states and companies to break the link between old age and higher pay.
in writing. the moderates have today chosen to abstain in the vote on the demographic challenges and intergenerational loneliness. although the report makes many relevant proposals, we cannot support it. the reason is that the report deals with matters which fall within the competence of the member states.
in writing. we voted for the report on the promotion of non-food crops because we think it is good when farmers find alternative crops to traditional ones when these are no longer viable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not, however, believe that a switch to energy crops should be allowed to slow down the dismantling of the cap. it is important that these new products are developed and grow in a free market without subsidies. temporary aid should, in so far as it exists, be aimed at infrastructure measures to start up operations, not at subsidised production.
in writing. the report is merely an opinion of the european parliament outside the legislative procedure. it is based on the further extension of the existing common agricultural policy to energy crops. there is much to add to the debate on energy crops. we have voted against the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we discuss competition policy, there is one point to emphasise, and that is that european welfare, european businesses and european jobs have been built by competition. the opportunity to start new businesses, the opportunity to challenge old established businesses - that is what has created european welfare and european prosperity. it is therefore legitimate and important to guard competition policy against all the forces that want to promote protectionism in various ways. there are a few points in this context, and this is also clear from the report we are discussing, in which the commission has a particularly important role. the first is to discuss competition issues from the perspective of the single market as a whole. it is a step we must take, because if we are to have global champions, we must also ensure that europe, across borders, can have viable large companies that can also be actors on the global stage. it calls for a competition policy which moves forward the positions of the old competition policy. i therefore believe that the commission must act with vigour and unwavering loyalty in upholding the treaty. by that i mean taking strong action against those parts of the internal market where member states do not live up to the standards that are set. this is the case in telecommunications, where we have seen that the liberalisation of competition has brought prosperity and where it is important that this will apply in all sectors of the economy. it is about energy issues, and i welcome the fact that the commission, as i have understood from the media, will act to enforce a single market and to fight the protectionism we see today in the case of various mergers. the last point is about what jonathan evans also mentioned, namely to ensure that we have a transatlantic competition policy which is reciprocal and which gives strength and power to the whole transatlantic economy. i would also like to emphasize that competition policy and competition are the most powerful forces behind european integration today. it's what weaves economies together and it's what gives us jobs. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first, a warm thank you to michael cashman for his great cooperation over the years, for the increased openness. the european parliament has always been the driving force, but i must also admit in the name of truth that the commission and the council have also recently contributed to the improvement in quality which is actually quite enormous and which we have seen over the last five years. we now have an open legislation in the eu which in some respects goes much further than in most national parliaments, such as my own. the aim of this review is to achieve uniform rules for all three institutions. in the long term, i hope that this will be reflected in the national bodies. the regulatory framework must be designed to be accessible to the majority of people, both in the eu and in the member states. parliament adopted this transparency initiative to increase democratic scrutiny and clarify legislative ambiguities. the minutes of council meetings must be made public when they are enacted, which does not necessarily mean that all coreper meetings are public. as in the conciliation process, a certain degree of negotiating power should be guaranteed. however, transparency should of course be applied when the decision on the legislation itself is actually taken. to give the public access to legal opinions in general would be to reduce the political space for action. alternatively, the quality of the opinions is reduced. however, in certain cases, a member of parliament involved in a case should be allowed to have access to the legal opinions after having given a written undertaking to observe the confidentiality of all other participants in the case. strong and clear data protection is a prerequisite for increased transparency. the rights of openness and data protection complement and reinforce each other. information given in confidence must be respected, and we should not have retroactivity in this area either. i am convinced that when the commission is finished, we will have a reasonable and balanced proposal. i have full confidence in margot wallström. citizens' access to documents must be further developed and the council must show respect for citizens and the democratic process. there's a lot of work to be done there. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteurs for their good work and i like johannes voggenhuber's proposal to refuse to be complicit in an undemocratic decision-making process. where's the council? do they have trouble staying awake this late in the day? it's because they're locking themselves in their rooms -- if they open up their rooms, they're getting enough oxygen to last them through the night, so they can participate in these debates as well. why don't they open the doors? politicians like every chance they get to be on tv, don't they? you wonder why the council is passing up that opportunity. you wonder what they are doing, and the whole population of europe wonders. there's an easy way to fix this: open the doors and see what happens. i trust that margot wallström will lead the eu into the 21st century and wake the council from the slumber of the 20th century. i feel it is important to remind the council that if they now open their meetings, it must not be an hour's meeting and a four-hour working lunch, so that openness becomes a chimera. we trust that the council will also eat quickly and decide long and openly.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs magda kósáné kovács, for her very good work. we in parliament have supported the idea that the guidelines should be long-term, three-year cycles, and that they should be integrated. given this longterm perspective and this integration, it is extremely important that we review the national reform plans. it is important that the commission does so, but it is also important that parliament is involved in the examination and follow-up of the national reform plans. commissioner almunia said that the economic outlook is better now. that is true, but the employment situation in europe is anything but bright. it is very possible that it can be improved, but let me take three areas that are extremely difficult. firstly, there is the issue of youth unemployment. youth unemployment is extremely important, because if young people go directly from education to unemployment and long-term unemployment, it is extremely difficult to get them back into the labour market later on. i do not believe in the french model or, as some other parties say, that by reducing the security of that group or of any other particular group, employment is stimulated. the employment of managers is stimulated by an active economic and labour market policy. as regards the older workforce, we face the dilemma of leaving the labour market far too early in the eu today. we need more skills development for the older workforce, but at the same time we need to strengthen health and safety at work. finally, equality. equality must permeate everything. i welcome the gender equality pact which is now, or will be, part of the lisbon process. especially important is the development of child care and other facilities that enable men and women to work together and have a functioning family life. these are the aspects i would like you to take up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. two reflections first. the economies in europe that are most open to globalisation are the ones that are doing the best today. that's the one reflection. the second is that the countries with the most flexible labour markets also have the best job creation. it is against this background that i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, for the work he has done. because the changes that are proposed there, the policy orientation that is proposed, are the policies that can bring more jobs and more prosperity. the crucial question is whether this will lead to change, whether policy will change at european level and at member state level. a swedish politician once said that "if things are allowed to continue as they have, then things will go on as they have". we have more than 20 million unemployed today. it is an economic issue, but it is also a very social issue. there is no issue more important to social security than the growth of new jobs. the commission has a number of tasks to which you must give attention. firstly, it must enforce the directives that open up more competition, and secondly, it must act to open up new business, and that puts the whole of competition policy in focus. new entrepreneurship is not just the emergence of small businesses, but also the possibility of establishing new crossborder companies in europe that can be 'global champions'. the commission must take its responsibility in this respect, but also the member states in the reforms leading to new enterprises. finally, we must ensure that there are more flexible labour markets in europe. if we do not, we will be shutting millions of people out of the labour market and social security. those in favour of social security and economic development are in favour of more flexible labour markets. i would like to say this to our friends on the socialist side: it is reforms that bring security.
mr president, i would like to thank you. may 1, 2004, is a day i will always remember. that day, i was standing with dr. otto von habsburg on the border between slovenia and austria, and i participated in a solemn ceremony. it was a celebration of the reunification of a city that had been divided into two parts, one of which belonged to austria and the other to slovenia, following the post-war partition, and slovenia's accession to the eu. the symbolism was clear. and standing there, i felt strongly that the people did not feel that they were entering into something new, but that they were rejoining something that they had always been a part of. and that's that. the ten new members of the eu are the ten old countries of europe. it's just that communism had kidnapped them for 50 years and now they're finally reunited with us. in sweden, the social democrats had painted horror scenarios for this reunification, about how our country would be invaded by foreign workers who would dump our wages and take advantage of our social benefits. i and my party fought in the swedish parliament to prevent our country from introducing transitional rules. we wanted the new countries, which had suffered so long under communism, to enjoy the freedoms of eu membership. we refused to accept the propaganda of the social democrats and we showed what real solidarity is. we won the battle; sweden never introduced any transitional rules. the evaluations now made show unequivocally that sweden has not been subjected to the social dumping that the social democrats were frightened of, but that free movement has only had positive effects on sweden's economy. the same experience has been shared by the other countries which failed to introduce transitional rules. and i must say that it is with great disappointment that i have taken note of the decision of several countries to extend their transitional rules. to do so when the examples cited were absent is not reasonable. the only right thing to do is to abandon transitional rules, and i hope that in the future europe will be moved more by reason than by fear. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the amendments concerning european coordinators, as we believe that a voluntary and temporary coordination function could serve a purpose, especially in cross-border projects.
in writing. the junilists believe that eu member states should cooperate on cross-border issues where cooperation brings added value. transeuropean energy networks are such an issue and that is why we also voted in favour of the report as a whole when it was discussed earlier in parliament. however, several of the amendments we voted on today are unnecessarily bureaucratic and the additional cost and administrative burden they would entail is not commensurate with the potential benefits. we have therefore voted against these amendments.
in writing. in principle, i am opposed to this type of report, where parliament repeats, in matters of routine, positions already known and public goodwill in a policy area. it does not contribute to greater confidence in parliament and it provides a legitimate basis for those who want ever greater eu intervention also in policies which should be national and competitive, in this case employment policy. i have, however, voted in favour for one important reason: the free movement of labour. the decisions authorising discriminatory transitional rules against workers in the new member states are a flagrant departure from the principle of free movement of labour and a shameful act towards the new member states of the european union, which have joined the union with great enthusiasm. the experience of countries with weak or no transitional rules has shown conclusively that there is no need for them and that the 'invasion' threatened by some political leaders has not taken place. rather, there is a need to attract more people who want to work, rather than to prevent those who do. the need to make this clear and to express clearly parliament's opposition to any extension of the possibility is for me a sufficient reason to support the report.
in writing. we believe that the council and coreper must be public when legislation is being enacted. it is an important democratic principle for the functioning of the electorate's accountability to its elected representatives. unfortunately, the draft report contains several points which support the adoption of the draft constitutional treaty rejected by the french and dutch referendums. we have tried to get these parts removed from the report by calling for separate votes on these very points. however, regardless of the outcome of these votes, we want to vote for the report as a whole, as reforms to the transparency of the work of the council and coreper are a priority issue and we want to put pressure on the council to change its rules of procedure. but we strongly oppose the way in which the majority of the european parliament is involving the debate on the future of the constitutional treaty in this important issue of transparency.
in writing. this own-initiative report highlights the eu's double standards in international trade policy. there is much talk about the need for emerging economies to open up their markets to european companies. the rapporteur also said that eu agriculture had a 'multifunctional character' which 'must be respected'. we believe that free trade will lead to a better world in the long run. however, account must be taken of the development of individual countries. if trade is to have a poverty reducing effect, even at the beginning of the development process, the eu must change its trade policy by abolishing agricultural subsidies and allowing poor countries to compete on fair terms. since the report contains mostly negative texts, we voted against it in today's vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i believe that this debate cannot be reduced to a debate on the quality of legislation. we also need to discuss the quantity, the amount of eu legislation. in fact, the volume of eu legislation has grown dramatically in recent years, and the eu is now legislating in a whole range of new areas. at the same time, it is extremely rare for the eu to return decision-making powers to member states or to repeal legislation. the combination of a very large amount of legislation and a lack of quality results in poor visibility and makes it difficult to implement legislation in practice. as far as quality is concerned, much can be done today, and there are proposals in the reports. outdated legislation can be removed, simplified and consolidated. all this is good and well, but we also need a different approach to the legislative process. we need less detailed management, more target management and more freedom for the member states to choose how to implement the targets they set. as far as impact assessments are concerned, they are good, but it is not always so easy to measure what you want to measure. it is often easier to measure simple economic factors than environmental factors, for example. we had that discussion in connection with the debate on reach, the chemicals policy. it was easy to measure the costs of the company, but it was hard to measure the enormous positive effects on public health or human suffering, because you get fewer diseases. that makes one a little cautious in this area. if we really want to simplify, we have to reduce the number of eu laws, and the area that is most over-regulated is agricultural policy. here most of it could be brought back to the member state level and thousands of laws could disappear. some speak of the eu constitution, but the fact is that it would have made these problems worse by increasing the eu's power, making it easier for the eu to usurp new legislative powers and to legislate in areas where it is not really allowed to go. so we have the dutch and french voters to thank today too.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. our group did not vote for this compromise in the conciliation committee, and we will not vote for it in the plenary tomorrow. we are not satisfied with the content and we are certainly not satisfied with the legal basis. this is not a criticism of the rapporteur. we believe that avril doyle has done her best in a difficult situation and tried to go as far as possible in asserting the right to maintain and introduce better environmental standards, but given the very weak position she gained from the second reading in parliament, it was not possible to reach the only reasonable one, namely to take article 175 on the environment as the only legal basis. for us, the only acceptable thing is that environmental legislation should be environmental legislation. we see two problems with this compromise. the first problem is that we believe that in some parts of it more could have been done; it could be done more quickly to eliminate these very dangerous greenhouse gases. but the most serious of all is that there is now an active risk of hindering countries who want to tighten their national legislation in this area. it is contrary to the spirit of the kyoto protocol and will be a potential obstacle to countries wanting to combat climate change, and as we all know climate change is the most serious environmental threat we face. as far as denmark and austria are concerned, they will have a guarantee until 2012, then the guarantee will be over, then we do not know what will happen, then there is the risk that they will be actively forced to reduce the legislation they already have. in other countries, reforms are effectively halted unless the commission decides otherwise. it's totally unacceptable that it's like this. this also means that countries within the eu will have difficulty in developing new technologies - exactly what this document says they should do - to go ahead and ban dangerous gases and force alternatives that new technologies can produce. the council and the commission are blocking the development of new technologies. we tend to agree in our debates on the seriousness of climate issues, and we tend to agree when we see the scientific reports saying that the situation is more serious than we thought a few years ago. then comes this statement from the commission showing that they have learned nothing from climate issues. what you're saying is that the market is still more important than the environment. the right of companies to sell dangerous gases is more important than the ability of politicians to combat the greenhouse effect and climate change. it is remarkable that in 2006 one can say something like that. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also want to thank avril doyle, because she's a fighter in this congregation. the council and the commission have defended old outdated technologies in the internal market instead of defending the climate. history will judge such actions harshly. an example: why don't we ban fluorescent greenhouse gases from refrigerators, for consumers? 90 percent of the market is already free of fluorinated greenhouse gases, it's very easy to decide to just ban it. allowing sulfur hexafluoride, which is twenty-three thousand times more damaging to the climate than carbon dioxide? the only way to have an alternative is, of course, to set a time limit. then comes the research that gives you the right options. in fact, there are already some options today. i wonder, then, if there is a typo in the commission's speech, if you would not be happy to see countries introducing stricter legislation to achieve the kyoto targets? i am assuming that there must be a clerical error in the speech, because the commission cannot possibly support such an old-fashioned and outdated policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european establishment has a repugnant habit of using acts of terrorism, natural disasters, political crises and economic disruptions for its political ends. the legitimate anger, anxiety and political commitment of the citizens is being exploited to promote the fight for a european superstate. that is why we have often had to listen in this house to endless lines of speeches based on the terrorist attacks in madrid and london, the tsunami disaster in the indian ocean or the dangers of war in the middle east. the speakers, including the president himself, have often shamelessly used these tragic and fateful events to further a hidden agenda. the fight for a european superstate. now europe's energy supply is in crisis, it is the same thing. the twenty-five ladies and gentlemen of the european council have no idea what energy technology and policy will look like in ten years' time. they should therefore not set percentages for biofuels and renewable energy. the countries themselves should seek solutions and experiment in a free energy market. the eu's task is to maintain a free energy market and coordinate infrastructure investment.
in writing. the moderates have today decided to abstain in the vote on the report citizens for europe. the report makes some good suggestions, such as the importance of raising awareness of the victims of nazism and communism. it is also good that the eu institutions provide information on their activities and on the rights and obligations of european citizenship. we are, however, critical of the expansion of the eu's financial allocation for opinion-forming activities on european identity. a european identity is created by people meeting and working together, not by public institutions forming opinions.
in writing. we are very opposed to some of the amendments tabled by the committee on culture and education. the report is based primarily on a viewpoint which rejects the low turnout in the 2004 european parliament elections and the rejection of the constitutional treaty in french and dutch referendums. the citizens for europe programme has nothing to contribute to changing the political situation. we oppose an increase in the budget for this programme beyond the eur 235 000 000 allocated for the years 2007 to 2013, as advocated in amendment no 36. the sum already mentioned is too generous. working with local amateur sports associations is a show of contempt for the citizens. we also note the importance of the peoples of europe cherishing their memories of dictatorships and tragedies in their history. but it has to be done at national level. this is not something for the eurocrats in brussels to concern themselves with. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i am in favour of the report in that it calls for the citizens of the eu to be more aware and informed about the eu and the possibilities they have to influence it. i also support the rapporteur's view that the programme should be available to all citizens and not just to well-educated and privileged groups. i am critical of the writings that refer to the new constitution and the aspiration for a common european citizenship.
in writing. we are in favour of the basic idea of the european capital of culture event. but at the same time we see the event swell in terms of the eu's commitments and the organisation around it. the idea of a european capital of culture is a good one. it is even so good that it can be financed in a variety of other ways, including local sponsorship. financial resources from the european union should not be necessary for the survival of this project. we therefore vote against this report as such, but we are not opposed to the idea of action itself.
in writing. this decision does not entail any new costs but gives the new and enlarging countries the opportunity to choose cultural capitals. cultural cooperation is what can give citizens knowledge and respect for each other and is positive. the commission's powers are limited and the countries and cities are responsible for the design. this is a positive development, in contrast to the imposition of eu legislation which restricts the democratic possibilities of citizens to participate actively. that is why i voted for it, despite some euro-nationalist flourishes.
in writing. we are committed to a well-functioning internal market and fully support the free movement of workers within the eu. this is one of the fundamental freedoms of the ec treaty. the free movement of workers contributes to the creation of more jobs and to the competitiveness of the union. we are proud that sweden is one of the three countries which have not introduced any transitional rules. we regret that the heads of state or government decided to introduce transitional provisions in the accession agreement with the 10 new member states. at the same time, we respect the choice of individual member states to act on the basis of the possibilities offered by the accession agreement. in its report, the european parliament called on the member states to abolish the transitional provisions in force. we believe that this question should be decided by the member states at national level. we therefore oppose the european parliament's opinion-making in order to influence the member states to act in a certain direction on this important issue. we also do not believe that the eu should carry out information campaigns on the free movement of workers. we have full confidence that the respective national authorities can handle this task satisfactorily. we also question the proposal to introduce a system of 'systematic monitoring of the migration of workers within the eu' and to allocate 'the necessary resources' for this purpose (paragraph 11). we have voted against this report.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. our party group believes that the elections in belarus were undemocratic. the opposition was prevented by a variety of methods from acting reasonably. the media is controlled by the lukashenka regime. this is made clear in our motion for a resolution. in this context, it is important that the outside world has close contacts with democratic forces in belarus, such as popular movements and free trade unions. the belarusian people cannot be isolated. despite lukashenko's anti-democratic methods, there is still significant popular support for him. this is partly due to the relative social equality and security of the country. but social security, which is a good thing, can never justify restrictions on democratic freedoms and rights.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. international solidarity and the ability to help people in developing countries is very dear to my heart. i believe that aid is an important tool in this fight for a better world. the eu's aid policy is itself very bad. but it is also opposed by other policy areas. firstly, the eu has an agricultural policy which gives absurd subsidies to relatively rich farmers. this, together with the eu's duties on agricultural products from poor countries, is causing agricultural policy to actively oppose aid. secondly, the eu's trade policy is depriving poor countries of the opportunity to enter our market with their competitive products. a recent and illustrative example of this type of harmful protectionism is the eu's recently imposed footwear duties against, among others, vietnam. thirdly and lastly, i believe that development cooperation should be carried out at member state level. of course, coordination of action is always a key issue in aid to make it as effective as possible. however, this coordination should take place at un level, where donors from all over the world, not just from the eu, work together to get effective aid that de facto leads to poverty reduction. this would really lead to the improvement of the world's poor countries, which should be the main objective of aid.
in writing. we note that countries with strong animal welfare legislation to ensure good conditions for animals while reducing the risk of spread of infection and thus also reducing the risk of adverse effects on human health have not been affected by the decline in sales of chicken meat. we therefore want to stress the need to strengthen animal welfare and food safety in the current situation in order to give food producers the right to earn the trust of consumers. the eu should therefore act to achieve this. however, in the emergency situation, we do not want to risk breeders concealing infection or otherwise increasing the risk of spread of infection for fear of financial loss. that is why, in the present situation, we support the possibility of financial compensation for farmers who are affected.
in writing. we are voting against the amendments tabled by the european parliament. we believe that it is too early to assess the damage to the poultrymeat industry in the event of a bird pandemic. it is typical of this parliament that whenever something unexpected happens, it calls for financial support for the storage of goods, financial compensation for food destruction and the financing of information campaigns to regain consumer confidence. we see no reason to meet these requirements in this case. how far should the planned economy be allowed to go in the food industry? consumers must always eat and if they cannot eat poultry, other food industries benefit instead. we believe that the market is very well able to adapt to the current situation. the poultry sector has less incentive to take preventive measures if it receives compensation promises in advance.
in writing. the junilist is opposed to a common european asylum and refugee policy. we therefore do not consider this a matter for the european parliament. we believe that member states should be free to determine their own immigration and asylum policies, as long as they are in line with international law. human rights must not be violated. we are in favour of a humane refugee policy and we oppose the placing of asylum seekers in detention facilities. we vote against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. the delegation of the left party in the gue/ngl strongly condemns the lukashenko regime and its violations of democratic and human rights. we believe that the presidential elections in belarus violated several fundamental principles of democratic and fair elections, and we therefore vote in favour of the resolution. this does not mean that we support every single wording in the resolution, but it is crucial for us to protest against the crimes against democratic and human rights in belarus.
in writing. the global fight against disease and poverty is a matter of great urgency and requires a major international commitment. however, we do not think that this issue should be dealt with within the framework of eu cooperation. we believe that the fight against ill health should be carried out by the individual member states of the union and within the framework of the world health organisation. the junilista group wants limited eu cooperation in this area and would like to see aid policy re-nationalised. we are also opposed to the union having influence and extending its competence in matters already dealt with by other international organisations. we therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. the report addresses a very central issue in eu aid, its inefficiency. the junilists' position is that aid should not be provided by the eu, but by each member state. the eu's assistance is, as the rapporteur points out, ineffective. while relatively large sums are being spent on pursuing an eu-led development policy, new trade barriers are being created by the eu, making it impossible for the world's poorest countries to enter the eu market with their products. in addition, the eu's common agricultural and trade policy is very damaging, since developing countries are unable to compete with their agricultural products because of tariffs and subsidies. if the report had been on aid at member state level, we would of course have voted in favour of it, because inefficiency and corruption are two major obstacles to good and effective development cooperation. however, this is now a matter of eu-led aid, which is why we have voted against the report as a whole.
a writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since i was first elected, we've been discussing the situation in sudan. what's going on in there? imagine that one of your friends is killed and what a tragedy and misery that is. imagine that 180,000 of our friends have died in the conflict today. imagine a single friend whose house is burned down and forced to leave his home. how does that make you feel? imagine those tears multiplied by 2 million in darfur today. imagine a single relative being raped, and it being repeated tens of thousands of times. that is the scale of the humanitarian disaster that is afflicting sudan. what does the government do? resolution after resolution, we demand that they disarm the janjaweed guerrillas, and nothing happens. in resolution after resolution, we demand that they work with the international community to help their own people, but very little is done. the situation is not improved by refusing to allow un envoy jan egeland to go to darfur when he deems it appropriate. the commission is already providing eur 160 million in aid, and my own country is providing sek 330 million. if this money is to do any good, it requires the cooperation of the regime, not that they oppose our efforts. i think we should push through an arms embargo regardless of what russia and china say, and that all of us countries that stand for an arms embargo should be helped and help prevent the arms embargo from being broken. moreover, imprisoning women who resist rape is an absurd situation, and these four young women should of course be released immediately.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it has been 20 years since the chernobyl nuclear disaster. still, 20 years later, we can see the terrible consequences. we can see them in the form of disease and disability for thousands of people. we can see them as giant patches of land that are uninhabitable, and that will be for many generations to come. even in my little corner of europe, in northern sweden, the fallout from the radioactive fallout had consequences for many years through the poisoning of nature that it brought. the chernobyl accident is the worst nuclear accident we have ever had, but we must not forget that it is not the only one. remember harrisburg! it was a good day. remember all the other accidents that have occurred in the history of the nuclear industry! nuclear power is not safe. over the past 20 years, very few new nuclear reactors have been built in europe. that means we have a lot of old reactors that are still running at full capacity. old reactors are dangerous reactors. it is time to seriously plan for the decommissioning of these older nuclear power reactors. the chernobyl disaster is a reminder of the dangers of nuclear power. we should add that the waste problem is not yet solved. we are producing waste today, and we still do not know how to dispose of it. we'll leave it to future generations. nuclear power has also proved to be a very valuable source of energy. it involves not only high production costs but also very high costs for the disposal of decommissioned reactors and the waste generated. last but not least: nuclear power is a finite resource. we're going to run out of fuel. we are now facing a gigantic energy transition. it is absolutely necessary to end dependence on oil and fossil fuels, not primarily because of the price of oil but because of the greenhouse effect. it would be a fatal mistake to replace dependence on oil with a new, even greater dependence on nuclear power. instead, we have a unique opportunity to build sustainable, renewable 'green alternatives'. it also requires that we dramatically reduce our dependence on energy. this is the conviction of the majority of the european left. but the eu must contribute to all this. this means that more of the eu's research money should go to renewable energy sources and less to nuclear research. that would require the euratom treaty, which has been obsolete for many years, to be dismantled as it stands today. only when we have eliminated nuclear power will the risk of new chernobyl disasters disappear. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. in recent years, the eu has been very busy and focused on our neighbourhood, not least in the context of enlargement. it is natural that the new member states and our neighbouring countries are and will remain our top priority. however, it is important not to forget the rest of the world. i think that sometimes it seems that latin america has been left a little bit out of the loop, which is sad. the development in latin america is very exciting very contradictory with economic growth, democratic stabilisation, reconciliation commissions and a development of welfare. chile has its first female president. at the same time, a very large group of people still live below the poverty line. inequality is high, human rights are violated in many countries, and populists have taken over in venezuela and bolivia. in cuba, for 47 years fidel castro has continued to imprison the opposition, harass dissidents and deny his people the enjoyment of fundamental rights such as freedom of speech, association, press and free elections. this parliament has discussed cuba on several occasions. my group is very critical of the council's softening of its attitude towards the castro regime and of the lack of support for the democratic opposition, whose representatives have twice been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament. in may, an eu-latin america summit will be held in vienna. we hope, of course, that it will be a great success. it is important to really enter into the strategic partnership that the european parliament has spoken of so many times and that we have been calling for so long. it has to be a broad partnership. we have many areas of cooperation, such as politics, economics, social and cultural issues, but also environmental, research and security policy and, not least, conflict resolution. we also need to reform our trade policy to increase trade here. cooperation must be long-term and regular. individual summits are important, but they are not enough. the parliamentary dimension could be strengthened by a joint assembly, as josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra writes in his report. meetings and cooperation with civil society, such as students, are also important for strengthening community and cooperation. i would like to congratulate josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra on the report he has written. it was unanimously adopted by the committee on foreign affairs and contains many good and wise proposals which we support. the unanimity shows how important it is that the whole parliament, regardless of political groups and despite the slightly different assessment of individual development processes, believes that we really must deepen this cooperation. it's a strength that we stand so united. we want cooperation that is long-term, high-quality and prioritised. madam president, i think you will find the proof of this consensus if you look a little further down the list of speakers. it is not only spanish speakers who are taking part in this debate and are engaging in this issue.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the political legitimacy of the european union is low and waning. this lack of confidence is unfortunately well deserved. the eu is not demonstrating a convincing determination to crack down on abuse of power, irregularities and fraud in its institutions. the willingness to actually claim responsibility is weak. instinct is to put the lid on. whistle-blowers lose their jobs instead of getting credit. scandals and fraud are not investigated. scandals and frauds that are investigated are not prosecuted. discharge is granted, even though we don't know if everything went right. a majority in this house seems to want to hide unpleasant truths about the eu from the citizens so as not to make the organisation even more unpopular. this is a profoundly undemocratic approach. our job is to bring the truth and hold citizens accountable, not to hide the truth from them. as rapporteur on the committee on budgetary control, i had to prepare the discharge for the 'other institutions', seven in all. i have not found any reason to question the ombudsman or the data protection supervisor in these cases. four of the other five are open to criticism, but not of such a serious nature as to call into question the granting of the discharge. this applies to the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors and the european economic and social committee. as regards the committee of the regions, however, i think that further studies are needed before we can decide on the issue of discharge. in 2004, the european economic and social committee had problems with irregularities in the payment of travel expenses to its members. we now hope that this is a problem of the past. there's been a problem with belliard i and ii. i expect a full account in the court's forthcoming report. as far as the council is concerned, as usual, much of the risk of administrative activities lies in the construction projects in which the council is involved. i would like to emphasize the advantage of renting buildings rather than running such gigantic construction projects ourselves. the council would also welcome a clearer definition of what constitutes administrative expenditure and what constitutes operational expenditure. the court's internal controls were far from satisfactory in 2004. its internal auditor also acted as head of the verification unit performing ex ante controls, which is simply unacceptable. moreover, since his appointment in 2003, the internal auditor has not completed any of his audits. in this area, parliament expects vigorous action and improvements. the court's ongoing violent large-scale construction projects can only cause concern. a thorough and complete report to the committee on budgetary control on the progress of this project is therefore a necessity. the fact that the court does not currently require judges to account for their financial interests is not acceptable. the court must, whether or not there is currently a legal requirement, draw up its own binding rules in this area. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. court of auditors the dominant position of a few large audit firms in luxembourg in the audit of the court's accounts is a matter of concern, while parliament understands that the court has difficulty avoiding this. an open, fair and understandable tender procedure is therefore of the utmost importance. the court has problems with its organisational structure which need to be changed. this must be addressed in the evaluation under way for the review of the organisation, preferably in line with the reform proposal drawn up by the british house of lords. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 300 kg. i come now to our black sheep, the committee of the regions. the committee of the regions has the most observations from the court of auditors of the 'other institutions' audited. in practice, in 2004, the internal audit was carried out by only one internal auditor, who was also temporarily employed. an internal auditor who is dependent on constantly renewing employment contracts must have great difficulty maintaining his independence from management. it is therefore inexcusable that the committee of the regions did not have a functioning internal audit in 2004, despite the strong criticism previously voiced by parliament in respect of 2003. we have still not received any explanation as to why the internal auditor who was in office until may 2004 was not in a position to produce any audit reports. the committee of the regions is also investigating by olaf the transfer of staff remuneration by applying a correction coefficient. transfers have been granted without being based on evidence of a right to such transfers. it is obvious that this should have been discovered by the committee of the regions as early as 2004 and that these payments should have been stopped. however, management has stated that there has been no fraud. in this case, too, there has been no clear indication that any action has been taken to recover incorrect transfers. the situation is aggravated by the fact that these payments are intended for persons holding key positions in the administration. the committee of the regions has been marked by a number of irregularities in recent years, which indicate that the promised cultural change within the organisation has not taken place. as things stand, olaf will be presenting its final report in mid-may. it would be irresponsible to grant a discharge before we know the outcome of this investigation. the committee of the regions' reorganisation has in several cases involved the promotion of persons involved in suspected irregularities, which is also illegal. the court's audit of the belliard i and ii buildings is still ongoing. the montoyer project should also be examined. so far, no explanation has been given as to why the former head of infrastructure seems to have withdrawn his declaration as subdelegate authorising officer for the 2004 financial year. we must also clarify why i, as rapporteur, was not informed of this and how the date for the theoretical reception was set. perhaps the damages awarded to the construction company would have been higher? in addition, the committee's internal auditor was denied access to the documents he had requested in this regard. there are strong reasons to wait for the court of auditors' ongoing investigation into this before we grant discharge. i would also like to take this opportunity to inform the house of the strange way in which the committee of the regions has been dealt with in the committee on budgetary control. i had received information from various sources indicating that there was much more to criticize in the committee of the regions' economic shenanigans than the committee itself had informed me. i therefore got the committee on budgetary control to agree that we should hold a hearing behind closed doors with olaf investigators and the committee of the regions' internal auditors for 2004. it was postponed until tuesday morning, 21 march 2006. when the committee began its sitting at 3 p.m. the day before and was to approve the agenda as the first item, there was suddenly a majority demanding that the hearing be adjourned the following morning. a majority of the members of the committee on budgetary control therefore refused to take part in information which i, as rapporteur, considered vital to taking a position on the question of discharge. i haven't been told why. i would argue that the protection of the eu's financial interests requires the committee to take all relevant information into account in such matters. the majority of the committee refused to see the information and then voted for us to propose to parliament that the discharge be granted now, even though i, as rapporteur, argue that we should await the outcome of the ongoing investigations by olaf and the court of auditors. i understand that the members of the committee on budgetary control have now had the opportunity to see documents showing various irregularities. if parliament does grant discharge, then you cannot say afterwards that you knew nothing. compare that with what is happening now with the discharge for the president in respect of the rents in strasbourg. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. the parallel with the committee of the regions is perfect. the only difference is that the strasbourg issue has been in the media. does it require newspaper articles for meps to react? should it not be obvious that members will decide to vote against a discharge for the committee of the regions until all the ambiguities have been cleared up? i therefore appeal to all members to think carefully about what they are voting on tomorrow. as we have not yet been able to clarify all the ambiguities, i would urge you to vote against the discharge to be granted to the committee of the regions for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004. if there is a vote on the report, i would urge you to vote in favour of the amendments which i have tabled with bart staes to establish the facts of the case. we must do so if we are to take accountability seriously. the demand for accountability is at the heart of the democratic process.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the officials who have helped me with my work on the discharge. it has been an extraordinarily large, admirable effort. moreover, as i said, the work has been carried out against a certain backdrop. there is now evidence that strasbourg has been charging parliament an incorrect rent for a number of years. i would stress that before discharge can be granted, strasbourg must therefore give parliament access to all documents relating to the buildings concerned. if not, parliament must take the matter to olaf. in addition, parliament cannot of course sign a purchase contract until this matter has been clarified. if there had been a clear will to investigate and hold to account within the eu institutions, if the committee on budgetary control had done its job and acted as the audit body it should have, this would not have to happen. there must be a clear will to get to the bottom of irregularities constantly, not just when the media have found out about them. i would also add that the committee on budgetary control's examination of the markus ferber report 'washed' away the critical writings on the voluntary pension scheme for members of the european parliament. this system has no legal basis and no rules on what to do with the fund's deficit. it is unreasonable to put the cost of pension fund deficits on the shoulders of european taxpayers. it is also noteworthy that the members' contributions to the scheme are paid from parliament's general expenditure reimbursement scheme. it must be the case that those who are members pay their dues from their personal income. the system should be abolished.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to say a few words about the report on the discharge for our own parliament, the european parliament. it is a magnificent scandal that we have before us with the rents and strasbourg. i am of course of the opinion that discharge cannot be granted in these circumstances. it is not enough to postpone this, but we must also have complete clarity before the matter can be completed. however, this is not the only reason for denying our own institution its discharge. in fact, the report on the discharge has been 'washed' and much of the serious criticism of the pension system has been lifted. i believe that this criticism is also sufficient grounds for denying the european parliament its discharge. not only is our pension system not legally based and not paid for by our salaries, but it is poorly regulated, runs huge deficits paid for by taxpayers and has not taken account of the criticisms of the court of auditors. this question too will have to be further investigated in future work.
mr president, after listening to the rapporteur, the commissioner and our shadow rapporteur, i must admit that tonight i feel a little bit ‘netherlandish’. it might be the late hour, but i very much support what they have said here tonight. i would like to underline one thing that i think is important when we are discussing the policy for supporting innovation: there is no better precondition and no better basis for innovation than competition. it is the broad and strong policy of competition that is the best precondition for innovation. it is better to provide opportunities for thousands of entrepreneurs and innovators to work on an equal basis with each other than to support one at the cost of the other. it is very important to remember that, and everyone has pointed that out. the most important thing for the commission to do is to uphold competition and to be strong in defending small companies and small entrepreneurs. by doing so, we will achieve a climate of an innovative society in our part of the world. i would like to underline that the policy of state aid must aim for less, but better, targeted aid. support for innovations must not be an alibi or an excuse for increased state aid, because we must appreciate that innovations are a normal process of entrepreneurship, and we cannot have state aid designed to support normal entrepreneurship. state aid for innovations should be provided for those innovations and processes that otherwise would not take place in normal marketing or in normal business. it must be temporary, and it must be aimed at the clusters that are open to everyone, not excluding anyone: then we can have a good policy for innovations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. first of all, i would like to thank gary titley for the interesting and excellent work he has done and for the interesting discussions we have had in the committee. road safety is important, and this is a road safety issue. we have a constant disaster on our european roads. every year, 42,000 people die on the roads in accidents that happen every day. that's why we have to take every precaution. one possible measure to save lives on the roads is the ecall. we know that the citizens want this. the citizens want to avoid disasters and save lives. we also know that the citizens want help to come quickly. we have seen this in other disasters besides road accidents, such as natural disasters both in europe and elsewhere in the world. rescue and help will come quickly. we can help with that with the ecall system. as early as 2001, the european parliament pointed out in a road safety resolution that we believe that eu road safety policy must also include measures for rescue, care and rehabilitation, and guidelines for better medical assistance to accident victims. this can be achieved by the ecall system. the commission has listened to what parliament said as far back as 2001. the commission now wants to introduce e112 throughout the eu, which will help road safety. this will lead to the saving of lives and the speeding up of treatment for seriously injured people in accordance with the principle of the 'golden hour', i.e. if you are treated within one hour, the chances of survival are much higher and the damage is less severe. the member states' involvement is essential for the industry to move forward. we know that there are major european car manufacturers developing the technical systems in cars. however, these systems must have a counterpart in the infrastructure, so that there is someone who receives the call. so there is a need, because the automotive industry is already developing this technology. amendment no 3 is important to move the development of ecall forward and to make the member states realise the importance of this. if the european parliament chooses to support this amendment, we will have another opportunity to put pressure on those member states which are lagging behind. equipping cars with intelligent aids must be an eu strategy for road safety work, as cars are produced for the whole european market. we know that if we have more intelligent systems, we can also introduce, for example, alcohol locks which would be very good at preventing alcohol consumption in connection with driving. finally, i would like to call for the report and this amendment to be approved.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ladies and gentlemen, i would draw your attention to the fact that we have just voted 'no' to the discharge of parliament, because at a late stage additional information has come to light which could not have been taken into account earlier. now faced with a similar question. as far as the committee of the regions is concerned, i have proposed that we postpone the discharge decision. this proposal has been rejected by the committee on budgetary control, partly in peculiar circumstances. since that decision, additional information has emerged which is now available to the members of the committee. i therefore strongly recommend that the house, on the same grounds as in the case of parliament, should again postpone, that is, say 'no' to granting today a discharge to the committee of the regions for its work in 2004. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that parliament has not fulfilled its responsibility to hold people to account. with this vote that you have now taken, i no longer consider myself responsible for the resolution and recommend that you vote 'no' to it. (applause from the left)
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on the switchover from analogue to digital broadcasting. however, it is naive to think that the transition will not entail increased costs for consumers. the transition entails certain costs, such as new equipment. however, member states should ensure that this cost is kept at an acceptable level. it is important to combat piracy, but we are reluctant to continue to harmonise copyright.
in writing. we have voted against the report on the switchover from analogue to digital broadcasting because we do not believe that such decisions should be taken at eu level. we have also raised specific objections to the substance of the matter. cultural diversity cannot be guaranteed by governments or by protecting so-called public service enterprises from competition. we also oppose the idea of changing television technology by decree and political decision, rather than allowing the citizens to make their own choices.
in writing. this own-initiative report is about the future of eu-latin america cooperation. the european parliament is currently organising an interparliamentary conference, but now it wants to set up a parliamentary assembly with a permanent secretariat. the report contains a number of very bad proposals in areas where the european parliament should definitely not have a say. the eu will also support the development of the eu's external relations, including the establishment of a solidarity fund and a 'plan for latin america'. the junilist is opposed to this proposal. it is true that a very large proportion of the population of latin america lives in poverty, but the eu is not the solution to the problem. where appropriate, assistance should be provided by individual member states or through un agencies. it also proposes that the latin american regional parliaments should be elected as soon as possible, by direct universal suffrage, to create a structure similar to that of the european parliament. it is, of course, up to the states concerned to decide how their interparliamentary cooperation is to be organised. i therefore voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. it is important to give priority to road safety issues and to work towards reducing the number of road deaths. there are therefore good reasons for member states to consider setting up the ecall in-vehicle emergency call service. however, i see no reason for the european parliament and the eu institutions to call on the member states to sign the ecall memorandum of understanding. the member states will have to take a position on this without political input from the eu institutions. the introduction of ecall is associated with costs and technical harmonisations. it must be up to each member state to assess which road safety measures are most urgent, realistic and prioritised. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. junilista has pointed out in this parliament before, and is doing so again, that the member states have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education and the content of education systems. in the two resolutions under discussion, the european parliament is quietly trying to address language teaching and the adaptation of education systems to new technologies and digitalisation, among other things. i therefore vote 'no' to the two resolutions. however, i understand that member states may need to discuss among themselves some issues such as the consequences of the switchover from analogue to digital broadcasting. as usual, however, the european parliament goes too far in its proposals in its ambition to develop policies at eu level in all possible subject areas. i believe that the council of ministers is the best place to determine how far cooperation in the above-mentioned area needs to go.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr scheele and mrs poli bortone, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council for the work they have done to ensure that tomorrow we have an agreement to take a position on which will make it much easier for consumers to make healthier choices because they will have access to more fair and comprehensive information. many of us have probably bought breakfast cereal, bread, or yogurt that we have perceived as very healthy in the store. when we get home, we discover that the yogurt may not have any fat in it, but instead, it has a lot of sugar. it is no coincidence that many of us have been subjected to this. companies know that we want to make healthy choices, so they do everything possible to make food appear healthy, even though it is sometimes the exact opposite. a common trick is for the manufacturer to highlight a single ingredient that is perceived as useful and then to pump this out in large, bold letters while indicating, for example, the sugar and fat content in microscopic text. the agreement we are voting on tomorrow will put an end to this and many other forms of misleading advertising. better health claims must be scientifically substantiated and must not be used for products that are not overall good for health. in future, if companies want to highlight a particular ingredient that consumers perceive as useful in a food, this food should in principle not contain excessive levels of sugar, fat, salt or alcohol. of course, there is still a lot of work to be done on this regulation and we will be following closely the work ahead, especially the development of nutrition profiles. i and many in my group are very proud of this agreement, but we are also prepared to come back with further demands for tightening up if necessary.
for the verts/ale group. eels are the forerunners! long before we europeans began to cooperate across borders, the eels made it their way of life. they radiate into the sargasso sea from all over europe to meet and breed, regardless of national boundaries. but in the last 40 years, the eel population has declined by over 75 percent. the fastest decline has been in the last 20 years. however, eels do not reach sexual maturity for 20 years, and eels born today will not be available for fishing for many years. it also means that it will be many years before we see the results of the measures, so it is time to help all the countries. the deer has already been beaten more than it can take. given the eagles as a symbol of cross-border cooperation, it would be a symbolic failure for the whole of the eu and the future of the eu if we did not succeed in saving the eagle.
for the verts/ale group. varela suanzes-carpegna has done a very serious job, but we heard earlier tonight how bolivian president morales spoke about 500 years of colonial plunder. that time should be over. but then we have this illegal fishing agreement which is pure neo-colonialism. western sahara is occupied and no one recognizes the sovereignty of morocco. only if the amendments to exclude the occupied parts of the agreement are accepted can the european parliament's speech on human rights be implemented in practice. please read the sherpa legal analysis. they are experts in international agreements and condemn the fisheries agreement in its entirety. the legal services of the institutions have been used to misinterpret the un charter in the service of exploitation, but the legal services of parliament recognise that the agreement is only legal if it benefits the saharawi people. in the previous agreements, morocco completely ignored the population. there is nothing in this agreement about compensation to the saharawi people or targeted aid as compensation. morocco has stolen western sahara and whoever signs a contract with morocco for this fish is guilty of hypocrisy. it's just like asking a thief to go into someone's kitchen and steal their fish from the dining table, which no one in this room would do. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels.
for the ind/dem group. we have previously pointed out how harmful eu fisheries agreements are, both for the people of the world's poorest countries and for eu taxpayers. the only beneficiaries are fisheries undertakings from mainly mediterranean countries whose undertakings are heavily subsidised by the agreements. this time, however, it is much more serious, because the eu is about to conclude an agreement with a colonial power of the worst kind. in this way, the eu indirectly approves the brutal and unlawful occupation of western sahara. it is extremely disturbing that the old european colonial powers continue to pursue the same policy as before, in subtler forms but with the same destructive effect. these fisheries agreements are highly reprehensible. they prevent poor countries from developing their own fishing industries, they contribute to overfishing of the world's oceans and they cost the eu taxpayers huge sums of money. i therefore urge you to vote against all fisheries agreements that come up for vote in parliament, but above all against this one.
there is much to be said about eu fisheries policy. there is a lot of politics in this, apart from the fisheries agreements themselves! this agreement contains a lot of politics and there are many ambiguities with regard to western sahara. morocco has occupied western sahara since 1975 and the international community has not yet been able to resolve this issue. morocco has refused to accept the un plan for a referendum and has unfortunately not contributed to any kind of dialogue or negotiation. i am very concerned that by voting for this report we are giving morocco the opportunity to exploit the fishery resources of western sahara and its people. the legal analyses are contradictory and several points to the fact that there is an unclear international legal situation as the boundaries of morocco's territorial waters are blurred. this could lead to morocco issuing fishing licences belonging to western sahara, which would be contrary both to the un charter and to international law. morocco has done it before and the money has not reached the people of western sahara. i will therefore support the amendments which limit the agreement to what is compatible with international law. i think it is important that the eu does not approve of the policy of occupation, but that we show that we want a solution to the conflict over this last colony in africa. if the amendments are not adopted, i intend, and many of us hope, to vote against this agreement. we cannot say that this is just about fishing and the conditions of fishermen. it is a matter of politics, and we must recognize that. we have a great responsibility to make our position known and we can do that by voting against this agreement.
this fisheries agreement is a shameful agreement which means that the eu is contributing to violations of international law! the agreement covers the fishing waters of western sahara, but morocco is the occupier and oppressor of western sahara and has no right to its natural resources. the legitimate representatives of western sahara, the polisario liberation movement, are firmly opposed to this agreement. the geneva convention prohibits an occupier from exploiting the natural resources of occupied territories for his own benefit, but that is precisely what this agreement entails. this means that the eu is also profiting from and legitimising the illegal occupation of western sahara by morocco and thus actively contributing to violations of international law. mr commissioner, you have negotiated an agreement with morocco which is a disgraceful agreement!
the pause is coming to an end, but it doesn't feel like much thought has been given to it around europe. the lively debate which was to be launched in all the member states, as all the prime ministers promised at the meeting on 18 june last year, has essentially been blighted by their absence. the presidency obviously does not think it is worth taking part in this debate either. it's not because people don't want to talk about europe. you know, i know, we all know that people want to discuss europe. in school classes, in workplaces, in debates, everywhere people have views, commitments and ideas about what we should do with our european cooperation, how it can be changed, how it can be improved and what it is that should not be included in it. what's missing is leadership. europe's leaders are too preoccupied with their own internal problems to raise their sights to the european level. but now it's time to stop the deprecation and instead show this leadership. if the state and foreign ministers don't want to take it, we will! of course, some institutional work is needed. some of your suggestions are very good. i believe that if we increase the openness and transparency of the council and introduce subsidiarity controls, which can be done without treaty amendment, that would be a step forward. we have high expectations of the finnish presidency. in this matter the light seems to come from the east. we need a constitution, of course, a set of rules that create legitimacy. i too believe that in the end there will be a revised constitution compared to the one we have now, but it will be built on the same basic ideas. we need to show action and commitment in foreign policy and law enforcement and stand up for enlargement. i hope that we can come up with concrete proposals in the near future. we all know that the pause will be extended. we must show that the eu is needed for jobs and the economy and to bring about continued reforms in the single market. we must show that europe is needed in the world and we must show the benefits of enlargement. a subject of much debate in europe, one of the topics on the commission's website, is institutional matters and the seat of the parliament. many people throughout europe think that the european parliament's two seats are a baroque idea. it costs a lot of money and puts a cloud over parliament. i hope that this citizens' initiative will soon land on margot wallström's table with a million signatures!
i would like to thank the committee for the work it has done and, of course, especially the rapporteur, mr rack. as many have said here, we need a more environmentally friendly transport system in europe. we have a very large environmental burden. at the same time, transport is very important for our regions and for businesses in the regions. combined transport will be very important in the future for the functioning of transport systems throughout the eu. at the same time, the marco polo project shows the different conditions under which we live in the different regions of the eu. in many regions, it is long distances. the companies there are often subcontractors to larger companies in more densely populated areas. they are very important for employment in the remote regions. therefore, the marco polo project must not lead to the relocation of employment in the union. i have acted on this view in committee and can now accept the compromise that exists with regard to article 1 of the report, which states that the marco polo project must create added value for the eu without adversely affecting economic, social or territorial cohesion, and the future article 2, which states that this must not have a negative impact on production or employment.
in writing. the commission is proposing to remove the customs duties on certain types of rice from india and pakistan, which we think is excellent. we moderates therefore vote in favour of the motion. at the same time, quotas are proposed to be maintained for a number of other rice varieties from the usa and thailand, in accordance with the agreements concluded by the commission with the respective countries. we believe that all duties on rice should be abolished, as they are harmful both to the exporting country, to consumers in the eu and to the general economic development.
in writing. we have voted against this report. we believe that trade in rice should in principle be free. this would benefit the household coffers of consumers.
in writing. the commission proposal differs from most proposals on fisheries agreements with third countries in that, instead of extending the agreement or introducing a new protocol, the eu terminates the current fisheries agreement with angola. the junilists consistently vote against the renewal of fisheries agreements and therefore welcome the termination of this agreement. we have therefore voted in favour of this report. the reason for terminating the agreement is that the commission has concerns about the angolan legislation on biological aquatic resources. the rapporteur regrets that the community and the angolan authorities have not been able to reach an agreement. we regret rather that the eu still intends to conclude new destructive fisheries agreements and to extend existing ones. the commission and the european parliament have not realised that fisheries agreements with third countries have a negative impact on the population of the countries concerned. we therefore have a very different approach to the rapporteur's approach to eu fisheries agreements with third countries.
in writing. we swedish social democrats would have liked to see parliament support the stronger proposals contained in both the commission's original proposal and the council's common position. however, it has not been possible to reach agreement on this content. we believe that the compromise reached is the best result we can achieve at the moment. the compromise will greatly strengthen consumer protection and make it easier for consumers to make healthy choices. that is why we supported the compromise and voted in accordance with it in all its parts.
in writing. voting declaration on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods by poli bortone the commission's proposal to regulate nutrition and health claims is based on several assumptions which we doubt: firstly, that there is an absolute truth about what is healthy, secondly, that sales arguments and advertising are something negative that should be regulated, but also that the eating habits of citizens can be controlled by political decisions. finally, it is assumed that this is a political task for the eu. none of these conditions is valid. there is no absolute truth about what is harmful or useful, new facts are added and old truths are re-examined, which makes it directly inappropriate to force citizens into a certain behaviour through political decisions. political decisions cannot ensure that citizens eat all-round or determine the usefulness of individual products in their context. each individual must take responsibility for his diet according to his circumstances. products based on new findings must be given a chance to enter the market to compete with existing products. today there is no possibility of voting against the commission proposal, which is why we are voting in favour of the european parliament's proposal because it reduces the regulations compared to both the commission proposal and the council's position.
in writing. the european parliament voted today to conclude a fisheries agreement with morocco. we social democrats voted against the agreement. we believe that the fisheries agreement should not include the territory of western sahara, since morocco has occupied western sahara since 1975. we believe that the agreement is contrary to international law because there are no guarantees that it will benefit the people of western sahara, who were not involved in the drafting of the agreement.
in writing. the eu is to conclude a fisheries agreement with an african state. we have repeatedly pointed out the harmful nature of these agreements. the countries with which the eu concludes these agreements are deprived of the opportunity to develop their own well-functioning fishing industry. furthermore, the eu's fishing fleet contributes to overfishing, something that has been pointed out by both the swedish authorities and environmental organisations. in addition, these agreements are costly for the taxpayers of the eu member states. in fact, these are direct subsidies to the fishing industry. this agreement is particularly reprehensible, since morocco has been occupying western sahara illegally for many years. the international court of justice in the hague has pointed this out and this means that morocco has no sovereignty over natural resources, including fisheries resources. by concluding a fisheries agreement with morocco, the eu is indirectly approving this occupation and the human rights violations that continue to be committed by morocco in western sahara. we voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. i'm abstaining from the vote. while there are positive aspects to the report, such as the need for the council to be more open, it focuses too much on growth and cost reduction when it should be emphasising sustainable development and cost-effectiveness. reduced costs are not an end in themselves, as they can lead to a continuous erosion of public budgets. cost-effectiveness is a better goal.
in writing. we have decided to abstain in the final vote on this 'deck-and-cover' resolution. our basic view is that the council of ministers should be the strongest political force in relation to the other eu institutions, since it represents the member states in an eu which we see as intergovernmental cooperation. this means that we also believe that the council of ministers, like the commission, should have the right to propose legislation. we also do not share the view expressed in paragraph b of the draft report. the commission is called upon to backtrack on the withdrawal of 68 legislative proposals which it considers not to be in line with the objectives of, inter alia, the principles of better regulation. we think it is good in principle that the commission is trying to clean up its vast catalogue of legislative proposals at eu level.
the question of bulgaria and romania's membership of the eu has already been de facto settled. the only thing we can discuss formally here is whether these two countries should be admitted on 1 january 2007 or 2008. the junilist welcomes the addition of new members for two reasons. firstly, the more we become, the more difficult it will be to imagine that the development of the european union can be regulated in detail from brussels. that's a big step forward. secondly, it is a great success for democracy and the rule of law and for peace in europe that we are bringing new members into the eu. in that sense, we are supporters of what is commonly called the soft power of the eu. the eu is indeed contributing to democracy and the rule of law in its neighbourhood for the simple reason that countries around the eu want to join the union for all sorts of reasons. and to join, we in the eu require these countries to meet important conditions, the copenhagen criteria. but then we have to take this seriously and it is obvious that bulgaria and romania do not meet the requirements we chose to set at the outset. for the same reason, we see that it was wrong to start membership negotiations with turkey now. the treatment of the kurds, women, freedom of speech and much else shows that we should not have done that. it was right, however, to reject negotiations with serbia for the time being because general mladic had not been found. what we can do now on the issue we are facing today is at least to postpone the accession of bulgaria and romania until january 2008. we will then be sending the right signal to europe and to croatia, serbia, turkey, ukraine and belarus for the future.
today's debate has been surrounded by a lot of pressure, speculation and, of course, a great deal of nervousness in the countries concerned. i am therefore pleased with the commission's message today that we hope to welcome our romanian and bulgarian friends into the community at the turn of the year. the road to that has been and is long and difficult. of course, it is not easy to overcome the consequences of the enormous oppression and misery caused by the communist dictatorships in romania and bulgaria. the politicians and people of these countries have made enormous efforts and sacrifices with a clear aim of reforming, democratizing and bringing their countries into the european community. there's still some work to be done. we are painfully aware of the problems that exist: corruption, organised crime, the difficulties in integrating the roma and the situation of orphans. we all know the criteria too, they are the same for everyone and we trust the commission to make an objective and professional assessment and evaluation. we also count on your wholehearted support and assistance to bulgaria and romania in overcoming these difficulties so that we can make progress towards membership by the end of the year. we in the european parliament will help in any way we can and we are convinced that this will go well in the time that remains. the liberal group has long advocated safety clauses for all of us, new and old members. we know that violations of the treaties and human rights are also taking place in the present eu and it would be good to find clearer mechanisms to deal with and draw attention to this. eu integration is like a tango, it takes two to make it work. the candidate countries must do their homework, but we must also do ours. we have internal problems in the eu that we have to deal with, as we discussed this morning with commissioner wallström. we must also have the courage to stand up for the importance of enlargement and explain to our citizens why it is so important that now romania and bulgaria come along with us and sit here and speak in the benches instead of sitting up there and just listening.
romania and bulgaria have been promised eu membership as of 1 january 2007. they have signed the accession treaty and we have sent signals to romania and bulgaria that they are doing a good job and that if they continue to work hard they will also become members according to the timetable. in the meantime, a number of things have happened in europe which have nothing to do with romania and bulgaria, but which have strongly influenced public opinion also on the question of the membership of these two countries. romania and bulgaria were promised membership before scepticism about further enlargement began to spread, before a number of european countries voted against the eu treaty proposal and before fear of social tourism began to spread in the old europe. the fact that these fears are unjustified and that today's political leaders have not been able to explain this and give people a sense of optimism is a clear sign that there is a serious lack of leadership in today's europe. but romania and bulgaria should not pay the price. i am both surprised and concerned that no one here today has mentioned that enlargement is really about security. several countries in the balkans are undergoing nation-state formation, which is a difficult and fragile process that can explode at any time and must be handled with both emotion and knowledge. in such a situation, it would not be sensible to postpone the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu. not least because it would certainly draw both attention and energy away from much more complicated issues in the region such as the status of kosovo, the referendum in montenegro and the status of montenegro, and the constitutional changes currently under way in bosnia. romania and bulgaria have done a good job. hard work is needed and they will continue to work hard, just as other countries did in their first years as eu members. but for the security of europe, it would be best if the eu fulfilled its commitments to romania and bulgaria and instead concentrated its efforts on the other much more delicate issues that need to be resolved in the balkan region during the year.
one problem with emu is that there is no control by the financial markets over the way countries conduct their economic policies. however large the deficits in the debt of countries, their ratings are not affected significantly. there is an implicit guarantee for eurozone countries, regardless of what is said about the fact that their borrowing is not guaranteed by other eurozone countries. my view can be summed up in three points: new countries joining the eurozone must first have a referendum before they adopt the euro. it is important that the real meaning of currency exchange be made clear to citizens. they must realise the consequences of having a fixed exchange rate and not being able to conduct their own monetary policy. the example of sweden shows the importance of having a referendum. secondly, new countries with a public debt to gdp ratio exceeding 60% of gdp should not be accepted. this rule has been applied too laxly so far. thirdly, new countries should be forced to borrow part of their government borrowing in the long dollar market, for example in 10-year bonds. this would force a rating without a corresponding implicit guarantee from the eu countries. i think that such dollar bonds would give a more accurate picture of the economies of the countries
in writing. - today we voted in favour of the report by mr sergio sousa pinto on the interinstitutional agreement. the report considers that the interinstitutional agreement reached by the ep, the council and the commission is compatible with primary law and the treaties. it is positive that we have finally reached an agreement on the eu's long-term budget. at the same time, it is disappointing that no progress was made on budgetary reform. we would like to see a thorough review of the agreement on agricultural expenditure and a proper reform of regional aid. the eu's resources will be put to greater use in areas such as fighting crime, fighting poverty, combating climate change and research, as well as in making the eu the most competitive economy in the world. budget reform must be the focus of the agreed review to be carried out in 2008/2009. there are also parts of the report that we would have liked to have been without. the so-called globalisation fund and the 'own resources' paper are among them. we believe that the member states should continue to be the ones to decide on the resources available to the eu.
in writing. we have voted today in favour of the reimer böge report on the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline. it is important that an agreement has finally been reached on the eu's long-term budget. we are, however, critical of the report's support for the so-called globalisation fund. globalisation brings enormous opportunities for the eu member states and, to the extent that it poses any challenges, they are best handled by the member states themselves. we also reject the report's suggestion that the eu should have its own resources instead of relying on contributions from the member states. the resources available to the union are decided by the member states. any form of eu tax would be a departure from that principle.
in writing. today we voted in favour of the reimer böge report on the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline. the report approves the budgetary and financial implications of the agreement reached by the european parliament, the council and the commission. it is positive that we have finally reached an agreement on the eu's long-term budget. at the same time, it is disappointing that no progress was made on budgetary reform. we would like to see a thorough review of the agreement on agricultural expenditure and a proper reform of regional aid. the eu's resources will be put to greater use in areas such as fighting crime, fighting poverty, combating climate change and research, as well as in making the eu the most competitive economy in the world. budget reform must be the focus of the agreed review to be carried out in 2008/2009. there are also parts of the report that we would have liked to have been without. the so-called globalisation fund and the 'own resources' paper are among them. we believe that it should remain up to the member states to decide what resources the eu should have.
in writing. we have voted against both reports because we believe that the total payment appropriations should be within 1.00% of the eu countries' combined gnp, as proposed by the g6 countries. we also see no reason to celebrate the fact that the eu budget has been increased by eur 4 billion through another round of negotiations initiated by the federalist majority in the european parliament. that money would have been better used in the member states' political priorities for spending. we therefore reject the agreement on the 2007-13 budgetary plan. we also strongly oppose the discussions in this european parliament about reforming the own resources system and giving the eu its own source of revenue, for example by introducing a charge on mobile phones throughout the union. the eu budget is based on membership dues from the member states and the level of membership dues is decided by the council of ministers.
in writing. it is regrettable that the european parliament has not taken account of the g6's 1% target, but has instead worked towards a budgetary framework far in excess of this amount. the agreement also lacks ambition in terms of the necessary reforms of both agricultural and regional policy. within the framework of a long-term budget of 1% of gnp, there must be room to invest in scientific research and support enlargement. the review of the eu's financing system must under no circumstances lead to the eu being given its own taxation rights and it is therefore unfortunate that wording implies that this is necessary. i have therefore chosen to reject the financial implications of the interinstitutional agreement and to vote against the reports as a whole.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have chosen to support the compromise amendments to the dagmar roth-behrendt report on tses, which have been put forward jointly by the pes, epp-ed, alde, greens/efa and gue/ngl. we need a large majority in this parliament to support measures to combat and eradicate tses. we believe that the diet of ruminants should not be based on animal protein. however, experts in the field believe that this may be justified in an exceptional case. this concerns fishmeal as a protein substitute for calves. we believe that this process must be preceded by careful checks to ensure that the feed in question is fishmeal and not other animal protein.
in writing. it is good to extend the ban on animal feed to animals other than ruminants, but it is very unfortunate to make an exception allowing the feeding of fishmeal to calves. i therefore vote against this part of the proposal, but otherwise it is a good compromise.
in writing. technical standardisation measures are a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the internal market. it is therefore necessary to provide funding for the institutes responsible for developing common standards. however, the financing of the institutions and organisations concerned should be debated and decided within the framework of the ordinary budgetary negotiations. it is not responsible at this stage to determine the indicative amounts to be granted to the institutions concerned. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this legislation is based on the fundamental fallacy that standardization is intended to increase the competitiveness of enterprises and not to facilitate consumers. it is also logical that industry should pay for standardization, even if only the firms benefit. i therefore oppose the eu's contribution to this work, which should be self-financed by levies. i therefore vote against the motion.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. these are just a few brief comments. the single market is the most important source of prosperity that the eu gives us. the interconnection of gas and electricity networks, including in south-eastern europe, is also undoubtedly important for the internal market. it reduces, as we have heard from many speakers here, the risk of disruption in a production unit that knocks out large parts. it's going to be a stability. it is very good that we can also count on international regulatory authorities. perhaps, too, people in the region will learn to cooperate, so that the risk of violent conflicts of the kind we have seen before will be reduced. so far, very good. then comes the poison pill. suddenly it says that if you have a common market, then of course you also have a common foreign policy. it doesn't, but you can abuse it that way. what we are seeing here is an abuse of jean monnet's famous tradition. instead of openly discussing the pros and cons of a common foreign policy, it is being smuggled into a completely different context. it's a very common technique. we know that the people of europe do not want more supranationality. this is revealed as soon as the will of the people is released in referendums instead of being channeled through the political establishment. i am saying that the wording on a common foreign policy should be deleted. we are not going to push for it by means of solutions to energy problems in south-eastern europe.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on budgets report gives an elegant overview of its field, points to many issues of importance to developing countries, speaks of the importance of saving eu funds, and stresses the importance of strict priorities. is there anyone who objects to this? no, i'm not going. the problem with the report is this: it does not take a position on the level at which these important issues should be addressed. is it at eu or national level? it does not take a position on how the regulatory system should be changed to promote this better management and it does not take a position on what should be abolished or reduced in order to give priority to other things. let me make some suggestions. a very large part of what is proposed to stimulate growth to cope with the demands of globalisation, adaptation, etc., is something that the member states can best manage themselves in the noble competition with each other to find good solutions. this includes almost the whole of the lisbon agenda, small business policy and research activities. it is difficult to find any reason to regulate these issues at eu level. the important tasks at eu level are, for example, to put in order the management of carbon dioxide emission allowances. the eu has taken the lead in this area and it would be disastrous if this system, which russia and japan are to join in a few years' time, were to collapse in the meantime. the trading of emission allowances now needs to be restructured. an important step could be to allow member state governments to auction emission allowances to companies. in addition, allowances must be extended to cover larger sectors of the economy and more and more countries. this is a central task of a global nature for the european union. we talk about subsidiarity in passing, but when it becomes serious it disappears. the report says that almost every problem is something for the eu to tackle. the rules that need to be changed include those relating to agricultural policy. we must move towards the re-nationalisation of costs in order to eventually have the political means to liberalise the whole system. finally, we need to discuss concretely what needs to be eliminated or reduced when other priorities are to be given. we must seriously begin to analyse and discuss which ones are to be abolished by the eu institutions. we should, for example, close down the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. these are two institutions that have outlived themselves. we must finally get to the point where we make brussels the seat of the european parliament and let the building we are in now become the home of, say, an eu university. this would be extremely beneficial for parliament, but also for strasbourg as a city. this would mean that the city's service industries - hotels, restaurants, taxis, etc. - would be evenly loaded over time and year, instead of suffering from overload a few days a month and being dragged along with underemployment in between.
this report is very important because it is about growth reaching all our parts of europe. i support the report by mrs constance krehl and thank her for her excellent work and for the good cooperation. i would like to raise two points, and in particular to stress the importance of the social economy and the development of the information technology infrastructure. i would also like to emphasize the development of the information technology infrastructure. the social economy as a model for sustainable development, with its capacity to reconcile the economic and social fabric in the regions by coupling the spirit of entrepreneurship with social purposes, combating passive dependency on social welfare systems, needs to be recognised and taken into account in social and territorial cohesion policies and frameworks at european, national and local level. the reason is that a social economy brings entrepreneurship and creates job opportunities at local and regional level. a social economy targets socially excluded groups, for example the long-term unemployed. a social economy means innovative entrepreneurship for minority groups and it increases empowerment and strengthens civil society. i would also like to stress the importance of developing infrastructure for information technology. in the future, the commission will be able to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their living. if new businesses are to be able to operate in all regions, there must be an information technology and infrastructure for them to enable them to operate effectively. the poorly developed information technology infrastructure must not be allowed to prevent action in the regions. i therefore think it is good that this is emphasized in the commission document and in mr krehl's report.
in writing. the promotion of human rights is an extremely important issue that should be taken into account in all policy areas. we believe that human rights are universal and that they should be fought for in all countries. the european parliament, however, is using this report to advance the eu's positions. we are opposed to several elements of the report, including the texts which seek to increase the power of the european parliament, and have therefore voted against the report. of course, we condemn all violations of human rights.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. we are, however, critical of the report's assertion that the establishment of the so-called globalisation fund could be an important step forward for the eu. we also reject the report's suggestion that the eu should in the long term have its own resources rather than relying on contributions from the member states. we believe that it is up to the member states to decide what resources the union has at its disposal. any form of eu tax would be a departure from that principle.
in writing. the report proposes a farmers' insurance scheme co-financed by farmers, the member states and the eu under the common agricultural policy. we are not prepared to accept that. we swedish social democrats are opposed to new instruments and more funding for the agricultural sector. as the common agricultural policy (cap) is a major budgetary item, the sector should be able to finance itself support for farmers affected by natural disasters. furthermore, there is no room in the budget for increased appropriations. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. in an eu of 25 member states, the report is too unilaterally focused on the problems of the european mediterranean. within the eu, there are a variety of problems arising from natural hazards, such as floods in central europe and storms and frosts in northern europe. nevertheless, forest fires in southern europe are constantly raised in the european parliament as a problem that must be tackled by the eu. but we believe that it is the member states concerned, and no one else, who have the responsibility for taking action in this area. on the contrary, if the responsibility for taking measures and creating preventive systems to prevent such disasters is taken away from the member states, the risks increase. in insurance theory, this is called "moral hazard". the report lists a wide range of measures at eu level with consequent pending expenditure, which will require significant budgetary increases. we oppose a specific eu programme for the protection of forests because we believe that this is a responsibility which lies at the level of the member states. the report's idea of eu-wide awareness campaigns to promote changing attitudes towards the use of fire (paragraph 23) is one of several examples where the ideological enrichment during the drafting of the report has completely lost touch with reality. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. in this report the rapporteur deals with natural disasters from an environmental point of view. the commission is proposing, among other things, the creation of a european observatory. we believe that transnational environmental problems should be dealt with at eu level. however, it is highly doubtful whether natural disasters are transnational. flooded rivers may be something to be solved at eu level, but there is already a river directive regulating how to tackle this type of problem. as far as fires are concerned, we believe that it is up to each member state to create the structures necessary to prevent them and their damaging effects. if the eu is to come in with money every time a natural disaster occurs, the incentive to work on prevention naturally diminishes. in the long run, this leads to more and more serious disasters, which is obviously very bad for the environment and costly for the taxpayers. the rapporteur calls for the eu to encourage member states to set up national forest funds for the prevention of natural disasters. we believe that this is a matter for the member states and that they should therefore decide for themselves whether it is necessary or not. for the reasons stated above, we voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. the reports propose the creation of a number of funds and the increased use of the structural funds and the solidarity fund to finance eu measures to prevent and combat natural disasters. the proposals include the creation of a european monitoring centre for drought and desertification, a european fire and forestry fund and a disaster fund under the common agricultural policy, as well as intensive information campaigns on sustainable water consumption. it is also proposed to extend the european solidarity fund to cover the consequences of public health crises, terrorist acts and technological disasters. the junilist welcomes international solidarity when a country is hit by disasters. however, the eu should not use these disasters as an argument to expand its power and develop a common policy in this area or to set up additional institutions. if the responsibility for taking measures and creating systems to prevent such disasters is shifted from the member states, the risks increase. in insurance theory, this is called "moral hazard". we have therefore voted against both reports.
writer. the green group took the initiative to discuss this as the tamil tigers have left the negotiating table. this conflict has claimed at least 60,000 lives and displaced millions of people. this situation will never be resolved unless both sides sit down and then remain at the negotiating table all the way until we have a solution. the fact that the tamil tigers have now left the negotiating table is destructive to all parties. they are in the minority and will never be able to achieve their goals by force. the negotiating route we can help with is the road to success on which both sides have some prospect of winning. we must turn our attention to the sri lankan government. now, as recently as may, at least 18 civilians were killed on kayts island, and there are witnesses who confirm that the sri lankan navy murdered innocent civilians, at least 13 people, because they refused to leave their homes. sri lanka has committed a long list of human rights violations that they never thoroughly investigate. now that the country has been elected to the un human rights council, it is unreasonable that they themselves do not meet basic requirements to investigate and prosecute human rights violations. if both sides come together and take their responsibilities, we can also do our part to help this peace process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate reminds me a little of a famous tv sketch by the british comedians of monthy pyton. in this sketch, a man returns to the pet store to advertise a dead parrot. although the parrot is obviously dead, the salesman refuses to accept this and instead comes up with a series of strange excuses. the parrot can be compared to the eu constitution, and the salesman can be compared to the eu political elite. it's time to realize that the parrot is really dead. only then will the debate on the future of europe be meaningful again. in fact, the voters in the netherlands and france gave us a clear and unequivocal message. they want more democracy and less central government. they want less free market forces and more social responsibility. that is the seed of better cooperation in europe, not the constitution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the national state is the carrier of democracy in europe. democracy as a political system presupposes a demos, a people whose citizens feel a strong sense of community with each other and who are therefore prepared to take on far-reaching responsibilities for each other. a demos has common cultural traditions and common history. a demos has a common political arena, where debate can take place and where conflicts can be clarified and resolved in democratic forms. a demos has a national identity that creates the soil in which democracy can grow and in which it can stand robust and survive the strain. guy verhofstadt is a typical representative of the euro-elite who believe that national identities can be replaced by a fast-made european identity in which flags, anthems and national days can be sold quickly, almost like new brands. by attempting to push forward a political union that lacks legitimacy in the eyes of europeans, the eu establishment now risks creating popular opposition to the whole integration project. the freedom for us europeans to trade with each other, to settle where we want, to study where we want and to invest where we want is what verhofstadt disdainfully calls 'just a free trade zone'. freedom is not just freedom, but freedom is the best thing that the world can seek. so goes an old medieval swedish folk song. i would remind you that if we try to impose on the countries, by means of a constitution, a policy which will always lack popular support, we are setting the stage for the collapse of the european union.
acting president of the council . the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is probably no other partner in the world with which the european union has such close and intense relations as with the united states of america. a well-functioning and sustainable network of contacts is therefore of course also an important and central concern for any presidency. looking back, 2005 was marked by positive developments in relations overall. we have made considerable progress on a number of issues and we are engaged in a dialogue, often in the run-up to policy decisions, to bring views closer together. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. we have repeatedly spoken together in advance of the elections in favour of a fair and free process. we have called for the protection of the opposition, we have coordinated our strategies to support democratic forces. we also agreed after the elections - which were not free and fair - to impose travel restrictions and targeted financial sanctions against government members and other leaders. the same applies to the promotion of democracy in ukraine, where we are working closely with the united states to strengthen democratic and market economy structures. another example of a very close and successful continuation of cooperation is the western balkans. we agree on the need for a euro-atlantic perspective for the western balkan countries. we 're voting our positions for the status talks on kosovo in the kosovo contact group . we are committed to a continued international presence and we are convinced that close, equal cooperation between the eu and nato in the field of security policy is essential. other examples include the middle east peace process, where we are continuing to coordinate our position very closely within the quartet on the basis of the road map - a subject which is of particular importance in view of the elections and the new governments, both in israel and among the palestinians. i would like to make a brief comment on iran. tomorrow there will be a meeting in vienna at the level of foreign ministers. the eu-3, javier solana, china, russia and the usa will take part in it. the meeting is to finalise an offer to iran that will allow iran to use nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes. at the same time, there must be absolute certainty that nuclear energy will not be used or developed by iran for any other purpose. we have heard with interest today that my american colleague, condoleezza rice, spoke of the possibility - and i quote - of 'new and positive relations between the united states and iran'. we consider this an important signal and hope that we will be able to build a new cooperative relationship with iran with active american involvement. the direct dialogue between washington and tehran would certainly be of central importance in this context. stability and security, peace and prosperity are also the overriding common objectives of transatlantic cooperation with regard to iraq, afghanistan, haiti, sudan and the democratic republic of congo. in the area of justice and home affairs, the austrian presidency succeeded in involving the usa in the implementation of the external strategy. a number of important challenges arising from various aspects of cross-cutting policy issues continue to merit our particular attention, such as international humanitarian law, the fight against terrorism and cooperation in crisis management. there are issues on which we have clear differences of opinion, and i do not want to leave that unmentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals. guantanamo - we were just discussing this - is one of those points. however, it is important to mention in this context that the dialogue of international law experts, which we have launched under our chairmanship, aims to reach joint positions that correspond to our common foundation of values. another controversial issue that we keep putting on the agendas of formal eu-us meetings is the visa waiver program or the international criminal court. we agree and work hand in hand on many multilateral issues, but the international criminal court is one of the areas where we differ. we also criticise the attempts of the united states to conclude agreements with third countries under article 98 of the rome statute, which run counter to the objective of universal application of the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. but let me also mention a positive aspect in this context. that is the circumstance that the us has allowed the prosecution of war crimes in sudan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we are each other's most important trading partners. two thirds of direct investment in the european union comes from the usa, and the level of mutual investment amounts to eur 1 500 billion. the two sides trade about one billion euros a day. the european union and the united states have a special responsibility in the world in terms of our joint share of world production. it is therefore essential that we cooperate closely on economic issues as well, and that we work together to gradually reduce trade barriers. i am sure that the european commission will take a more detailed look at this. since last year's summit, we have made great progress in implementing the jointly agreed work programme, such as the first meeting of the regulatory cooperation forum, which focuses on reducing or removing trade barriers, such as those caused by different safety regulations for cars or other goods. we are also working on a common strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights. we also welcome the proposals and recommendations of the european parliament as expressed in the reports by mr brok and mr mann. the reports also show us very clearly how much we are all pulling together. these reports also make it clear that you are as concerned about the improvement of transatlantic relations as the council and the commission. in this context, i would also like to mention the recent meeting of the transatlantic legislators' dialogue in vienna, which is an important component of our relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the transatlantic partnership. we do not think the time is right for that. the presidency therefore recommends that, for the time being, further concrete cooperation be built upon. the new transatlantic agenda of 1995 remains the current and valid framework for our relations. we have received clear signals from the united states that they are more reserved about further formalization of relations. we have therefore preferred to concentrate on content and concrete results and are now committed to making better use of existing structures. the regular formal meetings at senior civil servant level are well complemented by numerous other contacts and consultations in all areas of common interest. they have made the political dialogue more strategic and at the same time more substantial. we are already working closely together in many of the areas mentioned in the european parliament's reports. so a community of action exists. the next summit in june 2006 in vienna is currently being prepared by the council and the commission. our aim for the summit is to maintain the recent dynamic in transatlantic relations. we also want to give new impetus to further cooperation until the next summit, with a particular concern to make the european people better aware of the intensity, importance and usefulness of the transatlantic partnership. we have therefore decided to concentrate on a summit declaration as concise, forward-looking and substantive as possible, supplemented by a progress report on the political and economic aspects. we will also be setting out our priorities for the future at the summit. these include enhanced cooperation in the promotion of peace, democracy and human rights worldwide, a new dialogue on energy security, the conclusion of an air transport agreement and a focus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. europe and the united states are inextricably linked not only by history but also by shared values. we can only face global challenges together. our many common economic, political and security interests far outweigh the differences that may and must exist between partners. we are, after all, indispensable partners with a shared global responsibility.
member of the commission. madam president, let me start with my perception of eu-us relations from the external relations perspective. commissioner mandelson will then complete the picture on the economic and trade relations. i shall focus, therefore, more on mr brok’s report. as this excellent report makes clear, the context of eu-us relations has changed enormously over the course of the last year. following president bush’s visit to brussels and the 2005 summit, the tensions we experienced in 2003 and 2004 have been replaced by a new spirit of constructive engagement. we came out of the 2005 summit with eight declarations on a wide range of issues which guided our collaboration. the declaration on democracy promotion shows how far our cooperation on foreign policy has come. even if there are differences from time to time – as we have just seen and the president-in-office of the council has just mentioned – we are now taking the initiative and being more proactive in our approach, rather than fire-fighting. our activity to spread democratic principles, respect for human rights and the rule of law – which mr brok highlights in his motion for a resolution – can only go so far. without the full commitment of the country concerned, democracy cannot be sustained. nevertheless, when that commitment is there, our coordinated action makes a difference, for instance – as has already been mentioned – in ukraine, where we supported the reform process; in belarus, where our common stance against the lack of reform sent a clear message to the regime; and in the middle east peace process, where coordination is essential and where it works quite well. i personally have been very closely involved in coordinating our position with the united states. the motion for a resolution mentions the need to better coordinate assistance. i am particularly pleased that the quartet took up the eu’s proposal for a temporary international mechanism to channel contributions to the basic health and social needs of the palestinian people. we are working on that basis and i hope that we will be ready by the end of the month. before handing over to mr mandelson, let me mention four issues which are highlighted in the resolution. the first is energy. both the eu and the us are faced with record high oil prices and increased dependence on foreign supplies of fossil fuels. according to current trends, the european union will have to import 70% of its energy in 2030 compared to 50% today. the us is facing a similar problem. we therefore need to take a holistic approach in tackling this problem, including involving our major partners. at next month’s eu-us summit, we intend to establish a strategic cooperation on energy, addressing the security of energy supply – including the diversification of supply routes, the enforcement of market rules, the protection of infrastructure, the promotion of alternative sources of energy, and, finally, energy sufficiency. the key is to increase predictability by creating the right market conditions and legal frameworks in both the producer and transit countries. this is the message we will bring to the eu-us summit, but also to the g8 summit and to other international partners. the second issue is visas. one of the commission’s top priorities is to resolve the issue of the us’s non-reciprocal application of visa requirements. unfortunately, it is unlikely that we will reach a solution soon, but we will continue to press for progress and will raise it again with president bush at the summit. last time, the issue was highlighted and we hoped that things would progress more quickly. in july 2006, we will issue a second report on visa reciprocity, which may examine the possibility of taking specific measures in response to any lack of progress. the third issue i wanted to tackle is china. as mr brok rightly points out in his resolution, we need to coordinate our approach to third countries, particularly china, effectively. we share the same approach: to help china move towards democracy and integrate fully into the world economy and the world market. two years ago, we took steps to coordinate ourselves better by establishing the eu-us dialogue on east asia. this has proved a very useful forum for discussing relations with china. let me address the transatlantic partnership agreement. i know that mr brok’s committee feels very strongly about this, and i fully support the desire to see transatlantic relations go from strength to strength. as you know, i have always been open to exploring the pros and cons of a contractual relationship with the united states. it is indeed strange that we do not have more formal relations with our most important partner. as the president-in-office of the council has already said, the question is whether a formal agreement would really bring much added value today to our relations. the most important thing is that the eu and the us work together for our common strategic cause. for this, we need political will, in particular, but also understanding towards each other. i feel that a treaty, for instance, would not have enabled us to bridge the differences which dogged our relations in 2003 and 2004, which were political in nature. at this moment there is no political appetite for such an agreement either in the us administration or among member states. however, this might change in the future. should attitudes change or should it become clear that there is, after all, an institutional obstacle to closer cooperation, then the time might be right to go further. let me end with a remark about the important role parliament plays in transatlantic relations. as you know, i have always been an enthusiastic supporter of interparliamentary exchanges. i am convinced that these relations benefit greatly from the links between the european parliament and the us congress. i very much encourage you to continue to build these ties. i thank you for what has already been done in the legislators’ dialogue and what might be done before the summit.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to thank erika mann for having shepherded this very impressive report through parliament with her characteristic effectiveness, dedication and attention to detail; it is very timely. the fact that the very comprehensive report on transatlantic economic relations has the input of half a dozen committees of this parliament, and that it would need at least the same number of commissioners present to discuss all the issues that are covered in it, shows how deep and intricate the eu-us economic relationship is. that relationship effectively operates at two levels. on one level, steady leadership is required to promote a further convergence of our shared economic rules and regulatory frameworks – our companies, our jobs and our competitiveness demand this. at the other level, what happens in the rest of the world also depends on whether and how the eu and the us are able to react to events together. no political relationship in our time is of greater importance to the global economy than the transatlantic partnership. the response to the rise of china and india, the pressures of globalisation, the current challenges in the energy field, the way multilateral institutions function, climate change: all these depend on the ability of europe and the united states to cooperate effectively together. nowhere is this more apparent than in the continuing wto negotiations. i am fortunate to have had a shared sense of purpose with my counterpart rob portman, and i look forward to continuing this with susan schwab, the new us trade representative – i hope she will be confirmed shortly by the senate. it is no secret that i think the european union and the united states need to bring our positions in the doha round closer together. the warning bell is ringing on the dda. the danger lights are flashing, because if the gaps are not closed in the coming weeks, we will face serious institutional, legislative and political obstacles to ending this round. the united states will shortly swing into election mode, trade authority is set to lapse, there are electoral constraints in other parts of the world too – a coming election in brazil, for example. the window on the doha round is closing rapidly. europe is ready to negotiate further; we have indicated our flexibility, and no sector is out of bounds to us. we look to our partners to express the same sense of purpose and openness. let me say a few words now on erika mann’s report itself. i am glad that it shows strong support for the work programmes adopted last november to implement the eu-us economic initiative. in the progress report which we will present to the next summit on 21 june, we will be able to list some good achievements. the eu-us action strategy for intellectual property rights enforcement in third countries will be endorsed. it will contain a number of concrete cooperation measures, especially between our customs services and embassies in selected third countries. on the high-level regulatory cooperation forum, too, i am satisfied that after two meetings in brussels and washington within a very short timeframe, we have now clearly established the forum as the place for eu and us regulators to exchange best practice. we hope very much that the benefits of increased cooperation will soon be felt by companies on both sides of the atlantic. the signature of the long-awaited air services agreement, as well as the agreement on civil aviation safety, is now expected during the second half of the year. on the air services agreement, we will have to keep pushing the us government to go ahead with the rule-making changes and resist protectionist pressure from congress. your help in this house will be most valuable to us in pursuing this goal. i welcome your continued interest in a more visionary and strategic approach – i happen to think that there is a place for vision in politics. i note your call for the 2006 eu-us summit to design a new transatlantic partnership agreement that leads to the achievement of a barrier-free transatlantic market by 2015. in my view, the eu-us economic initiative has shown that we are getting there, we are moving in that direction step by step. probably the right approach is to advance steadily on issues of mutual interest and to show – for example in the areas of intellectual property rights and regulatory cooperation – concrete successes to our citizens. we have to earn our way in our acceptance of the approach that i know is supported in the report. i think this pragmatic approach will be assured of support because in reality there is no us enthusiasm – either in the administration or in congress – for any ‘bigger bang’ eu-us scheme. on issues like investment and public procurement, which you rightly identify as areas of enormous potential – and they do have very great potential indeed – the us has not so far shown any interest in tackling bilateral barriers. on the investment side, the dubai ports fallout requires careful handling. we have now at least established a contact group to address both old and new problems, and have proposed to the us government to include an investment paragraph in the summit declaration regarding the importance of an open transatlantic investment climate. this should send a strong message to the us congress, which is currently debating the shelby bill on the tightening of the exon-florio statute. again, your continued help on this, along with that of the us congress, would be much appreciated. finally i would like to point out that we have had a very good first half of the year clearing out some important eu-us trade disputes on foreign sales corporations, on byrd, on the telecoms sanctions – i hope we can keep up the momentum in other areas. i am looking at two other disputes particularly at the moment to see whether they are susceptible to early resolution. fsc and byrd prove that the wto dispute settlement system works and that the availability of wto-compatible sanctions can be an efficient way of obtaining us implementation of wto judgments. given the good results of the wto system, i do not see at this stage the need for the kind of formal bilateral trade dispute settlement mechanism which you propose in your report, but i do not want to reject the idea completely. be assured that we will exhaust all our informal channels with the united states and try everything possible to avoid going down the expensive and time-consuming route to geneva, whenever this is avoidable. in conclusion, let me say that the transatlantic relationship is one which is too often simply taken for granted. especially at this time, what we need is renewed commitment in order to make it work better. i am grateful for your report, which has highlighted this need once again in a very timely way.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to congratulate erika mann on the work she has done on the report. there is one objective in the report which i would like to emphasize in particular: the objective of achieving a common transatlantic capital market by 2010. it is an objective which in turn leads the way in other areas. already today we can see that the transatlantic economy is defined and operates by the direct investments and the flows of cooperation between businesses and research that carry trade forward. the intensity of investment and the volume of business acquisitions in both directions are what lay the foundations for a large-scale transatlantic trade, but a high level of research and innovation is also important. this is probably the best way to respond to and contribute to globalization, to contribute to a strong global economy, not just for ourselves but for the world at large. the report also touches on a number of other points, such as the importance of making it easier for companies on both sides of the atlantic to list on the various stock exchanges, of facilitating and opening up business investment to the same extent in both directions, of ensuring that reinsurers have the same opportunities, of ensuring that we have a truly common transatlantic capital market. if we can achieve that, we will also be able to achieve other objectives of transatlantic cooperation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, erika mann’s report is proof not only of her skills as a rapporteur, but also of the underlying strength of transatlantic economic relations. on behalf of the committee of industry, i would like to make three very important points. firstly, as the commissioner mentioned, in the field of energy we need cooperation on efficiency sufficiency and on sustainability. secondly, in relation to research – which is extremely important – our committee is now working with the seventh framework programme. equally important is the cooperation with the institutions in the us as well as with industry. much can be done to facilitate more cooperation in this field. thirdly, we have discussed the setting-up of a body to improve discussions between industries. we would like to set up something analogous to the very successful iran-us claims tribunal, which, in a simple and elegant way, resolves thousands of disputes. we would like something similar in the future. finally, i would also like to underline the importance of parliamentary exchanges to begin discussions and to bring success on these three extremely important topics.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank erika mann for an excellent report and for the very close and good cooperation during the time we have been working on it. the united states is europe's most important trading partner, which we often forget. the public debate is focused on the few problems that exist in our trade relations. there is talk of crisis and conflict between europe and the united states. politically, that may be true at times, but economically, the reality is the exact opposite. i would venture to say that our trade has undergone a revolution. today, the trade volume is a staggering one billion euros a day. the deepest form of crossborder economic integration, namely mutual foreign direct investment, has increased significantly and now stands at eur 1.5 trillion. this is more than just numbers. even if we don't think about it, it gives us new opportunities in our everyday lives. the market we have, for example, has created almost seven million jobs in europe. it gives us all more services and better products. moreover, transatlantic trade is a major engine of the world economy. if our relationship is broken, it will have consequences for the whole world. trade with each other is therefore not an alternative to trade with poorer countries, but on the contrary a prerequisite and something that makes us all richer all over the world. we can't take it for granted. we must work further and integrate our economies. i therefore hope that together with the united states we can realise the idea of a barrier-free transatlantic market by 2015. yesterday i received an e-mail from the left-wing anti-globalization movement. they urged me and all the other members to vote against this report. their argument was that if this report is voted through by a majority in parliament, it will open the way to an accelerated process of increased free trade between the us and europe. i hope they are right, and that is why i intend to vote in favour of the report and in favour of a transatlantic free trade area, together with the swedish moderates.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in the debate. i welcome your contributions, whether or not they agree with the commission's view on the issues we are discussing today. i would like to say four things: firstly, the commission's attitude is of course in favour of the enlargement of the euro area. it cannot be otherwise: it is a right and an obligation of the member states, and we respect that right and demand that obligation. and we do so regardless of whether those who are due to join the euro area in the coming years are new or old member states - a distinction which, for us, belongs to the past - small or large, rich or less rich. and we are not going to invent any new conditions, mr rosati: we are applying the treaty, not just the treaty, but the whole treaty. it is the only way to ensure equal treatment for all, and i cannot imagine - and i am sure none of you want to do that - that anyone in this parliament would ask the commission to fail in its duty to be the guardian of the treaty and to fail to apply the treaty equally to each and every member state. can the treaty be amended? of course i will. this afternoon i had the opportunity to attend the debate in the presence of prime minister verhofstadt on the future constitution, the necessary changes and the future of europe. of course the treaty can be changed, and will be changed in due course. but today we have to apply the existing treaty, and you know, as i do, that it is not the commission which can change the treaty. what does the treaty say about the inflation criterion, which has been the subject of debate? it says that there is a reference value which is made up of the average inflation of the three best member states in terms of inflation. it does not say 'members of the euro area', it says clearly 'member states': all, including those with an opt-out clause; we cannot exclude any member state from the calculation of the top three states in terms of inflation. and to that average of the three we have to add 1.5%: that is the reference value. the value, the figure, which the european central bank, in the exercise of its independence, has defined as an objective identifiable with its mandate, which is to ensure respect for price stability, is quite different. it is not the same, it does not have to be the same, and the inflation target of the european central bank cannot be confused in the debate with the reference value of the inflation criterion in the treaty. they're completely different things. but the inflation criterion in the treaty says otherwise: it says that the inflation of the member state concerned must also be sustainable. some of you are referring to a small difference, and it's true. but the treaty, in the inflation criterion, in addition to the difference, in addition to the comparison between the inflation of the member state and the reference value, requires us to analyse whether that inflation of the member state in question is sustainable or not. and we cannot ignore the treaty, nor will we. and we will explain this again and again, because a rigorous analysis of the criteria is in the interest not of the present euro-area states but of the candidate member state to join the euro-area; because if this is not done, the state will pay the consequences once the decision to join the euro is irreversible. so i don't need references to the past either. if things weren't done perfectly in the past, someone is paying the price today. we learn from experience that this is why we are rational and reasonable politicians. we are applying the treaty, but we are applying it in its entirety, not just the part that interests us individually, and we are applying it by learning from experience in the interpretative margin that the treaty itself gives us. and of course, in relation to lithuania, i will not be the one to deny something that is obvious: that it has excellent economic results, that the effort made by lithuania to improve its economic situation is impressive. we all want lithuania to meet all the criteria of the treaty as soon as possible. today he has been able to meet all but one of them; let us hope that he will soon have overcome that gap. as soon as it has passed, i shall be looking forward to receiving a request from lithuania - as it may do under the treaty - in order to be able to give a favourable opinion on behalf of the commission. but do not ask the commission to put in the convergence reports anything that is contrary to the rational, clear and transparent application of the treaty.
in september 2003, the swedish people held a referendum on whether sweden should adopt the euro as its currency. the result, not surprisingly, was a resounding no. it is now two years since the eu added 10 new member states. opinion on the euro in these countries varies from country to country. however, currency exchange is a very important and serious matter. it is not just a question of replacing notes and coins, but also of giving up some of its autonomy. in the long run, you lose control of your own economic development. the junilista group believes that citizens must be consulted when important decisions are to be taken, such as on a new constitution or the euro. for the sake of democracy, it would be best if referendums were held if citizens so demand in those countries which intend to adopt the euro as a means of payment. the outcome of these must then be respected, as was the swedish people's rejection of the euro.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i fully support the agreement and would like to thank the rapporteur, mr niebler, for his cooperation and for his great attention to the work. despite the success of this directive, i would still like to raise a warning finger. however good the directives we can produce in the eu system, it is the concrete actions that bring about change. for example, we have had the equal pay directive for a very long time. despite this, we are still forced to live with gender pay. i regret that we did not go further with regard to parental leave. i would have liked to see a much stronger call to the member states to take this matter seriously. we have now received some of the documents, which is good, although i do not think they are sufficient and i would have liked to have gone further. however, this means that we must continue to work at all levels to get to the end.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs niebler for her excellent work. the recast directive to simplify and modernise the issue incorporates the relevant points in this area. standardisation and definitions are clearly important but, most importantly, what we need now are sanctions. to reconcile work and family life is one of the most urgent issues of the europe of today and the europe of the future. there is today no country in the union that reaches the reproductive levels necessary to avoid extinction. women want to work. if forced to choose between working and having a family, an increasing number of women choose to work. one of the most obvious forms of discrimination against women is the gender pay gap. for more than 30 years we have had a directive dealing with this, but how much has the situation changed during that time? not at all. there has been no improvement in this area whatsoever. will the recast directive change this? it remains to be seen. to put the issue of reconciling work and family life as a top priority, as commissioner ferrero-waldner stated, is very good, but we desperately need sanctions. nothing less than the future of europe is at stake.
mr president, as we have heard, many member states still discriminate systematically against roma, and romani women suffer this even more than romani men. reproductive rights is a key issue. as stated in the járóka report, there are recent reported cases of sterilisation in two member states. this is beyond what should be possible in the eu of today. the only reason that this has not been more widely condemned is precisely because it affects romani women. in this area, too, we need sanctions. i should also like to underline that it is necessary to collect data on the basis of gender and ethnicity. only through this will we be able to prove beyond doubt the true scope of the problem of discrimination and marginalisation. finally, mrs járóka has proven to us all how important the contribution of romani women can be.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in peace movements around the world, women are often the initiators and the majority. they've realized that bombs don't bring peace. on the contrary, military violence breeds hatred and demands for revenge and suicide bombers. an escalation of military violence also means tremendous, horrific abuses against women and children, as this report also shows. women in the peace movement have shown a different and better way, a way of conflict resolution and peace-building. i think that the report largely points to this different and better way, for which i thank the rapporteur in particular. however, paragraphs 14 to 20 point to a risk of further militarisation. i therefore believe that these points should be deleted so that we can have a report that is in favour of women and peace, not militarism.
in writing. there is no doubt that smes play a very important role in the economy of countries. in developing countries where there are no large enterprises, it is of course more important to ensure that there is an institutional framework which enables smes to operate. it is not, however, the task of the european parliament to dictate the conditions that must prevail in the developing countries. each state, both in the eu and in the rest of the world, has the right to own and shape its own development. that is why i voted against this report today.
in writing. as at the first reading of this case, the junilist votes against the report on grounds of principle. we fully support equal treatment for women and men in the world of work. this is a key area which is being dealt with with merit by international organisations such as the ilo. we do not believe that the eu should regulate these kinds of issues in long-term reports, which have the character of political programmes. the eu should not control working time, parental leave and other important national issues. this is to the advantage of the member states, which are able to do so independently, in accordance with already adopted international agreements.
in writing. we have voted today in favour of the report on the european year of intercultural dialogue. cultural exchanges are of course enriching and important for increasing understanding between citizens. however, there are details in the report which we are sceptical about. we do not think that days, weeks and years have any practical significance for citizens for one reason or another, but that they may be some kind of objective description for the actions of the institutions. as always, we are sceptical of centrally designed campaigns and opinion-forming and note that the report tightens up the commission's proposals in this area. a 'no' vote would mean more money for the union's institutions and for public relations campaigns.
in writing. the junilist believes that the whole idea of the european year is unnecessary and not something that the eu taxpayers should be funding. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european year of intercultural dialogue is a very good one. the european parliament's committee on culture also wants, incredibly, to increase the eu's share of the contribution to the type of activities related to national events and initiatives from 50 per cent to 80 per cent of the contribution (amendment 33). i am voting against the report as a whole.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report because the main objective of combating discrimination is very positive and necessary. i am voting against an increase in the budget and against amendment no 18, which is particularly unfortunate in its neo-colonial desire to export opinions and values.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the introduction of the euro. the question is thus settled for sweden for the foreseeable future. we believe that the eu should not test the swedish people's opinion by taking a position for or against a possible exception clause.
in writing. in the vote on the euro, i have abstained on the question of whether the swedish referendum should be regarded as an exception. the claim is based on the mistaken notion that sweden will be forced to accept the single currency contrary to the result of the referendum. of course, that is not the case. however, this demand goes too far, since it is based on the unreasonable idea that individual countries should be able to opt out of parts of the common treaties by means of a referendum. the consistent application of such a principle is, of course, unthinkable.
in writing. i voted for amendment no 9 because i believe that sweden should request an exemption after the 2003 swedish vote on the euro. however, i believe that it is up to sweden to apply for the derogation. the eu should not automatically consider sweden's refusal to grant a derogation as equivalent to a waiver.
in writing. i am voting against the amendments on how countries should technically implement the changeover to the euro. however, i am voting against proposals which seek to maximise the fight against inflation and to disregard other objectives. i am voting in favour of the report because of the massive criticism of the way lithuania has been treated.
in writing. we swedish social democrats are against parliament sitting in strasbourg and wonder why parliament has set aside a significant amount of money to buy buildings in strasbourg. this issue is particularly controversial, as the investigation into irregularities in the dealings with parliament's buildings in strasbourg is still ongoing.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the european parliament for the financial year 2007. we appreciate the ambition to treat the administration's proposals rigorously. our approval does not mean that we support the budget in all its aspects. for example, we are still sceptical about the european parliament's information activities, which tend to take over the role of members and political groups. we also do not think it is justified to build a house of europe in brussels or for the european parliament to buy the buildings in strasbourg.
in writing. this report could have contained much more of a general interest in the budget of the european parliament. the report should make it clear that under no circumstances should the budget of the european parliament cover the deficit of the pension fund of the members of the european parliament. the report should also have included a statement that the european parliament's generous travel allowance system should be reformed and that only actual travel costs and nothing else should be paid to them for their travels. the report calls for an increase in appropriations for political groups and european parties by eur 4 million. i cannot support this, which is one of the reasons why i am voting against the report as a whole.
in writing. those who vote against paragraph 4 (€50 million for the purchase of buildings in strasbourg and €25 million for propaganda) do not affect the budget but only try to hide the waste from the electorate. i am voting against the report, however, because i do not want the money to be wasted.
in writing. globalisation offers a number of opportunities, not least in reducing poverty. trade and technological cooperation both help to strengthen the economies of poor countries. but there are risks and problems. the poorest countries are often unable to participate in economic cooperation because of capacity shortages, etc., and risk falling further behind. furthermore, environmental legislation at international level and in many poor countries is characterised by major shortcomings, which is causing waste products, plunder and unsustainable exploitation of various natural resources, such as forests and fisheries, to increase rapidly and to be reinforced by the rapidly growing trade exchange. these problems must be tackled urgently if the benefits of globalisation are not to be turned into disadvantages.
in writing. the report deals with the situation of roma women in the eu and the complex and multiple forms of discrimination against them in the member states of the union. junilista is committed to ensuring that roma women have access to better protection of their reproductive and sexual health. the basic position of junilistan is that both gender equality and ethnic discrimination issues should be given priority, as they are both necessary and desirable. but that does not mean that the eu should do so. the junilista is convinced that this work is best done at national level. the member states display a great diversity of culture and traditions. we therefore believe that a more pluralistic and flexible approach to the achievement of the goal of equal opportunities for women and men can be taken at national level. i have therefore decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. we have abstained from the vote on the report on the situation of women in armed conflict. we are, of course, as appalled by the horrors of war and the human suffering caused by war and terrorism as the rapporteur ever was. however, the report's premise leads to a strange line of reasoning in which the suffering of the men's group and the women's group, as well as the guilt and responsibility, are graded to fit the requirements of quotas for women in different contexts. in the quest to prevent conflict and stop terrorism, that must be the goal, and the best methods to achieve it must be used. the report's many proposals, however benign, risk shifting the focus from the aims of peace work to its forms. the quota of women in peacekeeping and peace-making forces and in peace negotiations risks undermining the objective of preventing suffering.
in writing. even though the report as a whole is progressive concerning the situation of women in armed conflicts and their role in the reconstruction and democratic process in post-conflict countries, we have decided to abstain due to the paragraphs which state support for the european security and defence policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. two weeks ago, the police in sweden raided a 50-man operation to shut down a website that facilitated file sharing. a large number of servers were seized from a number of companies that had nothing to do with the business, and the business of these small companies was shut down. in addition, a number of persons were forced to submit dna samples on suspicion of a very minor crime. even more serious, a political opponent of the music industry who had forced this raid was having his website taken down in the middle of our campaign and was unable to engage in the debate that had been openly being conducted, namely to advocate for liberal legislation on file sharing for private use without profit motive. the music industry has always tried to stop technological developments, such as cassettes, digital music players, writable cds. they've always been wrong. all these new inventions have always led to increased sales. that's why it's a shame if the police help stop the debate.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the context of the hearing held on 8 march, organised by the equality committee, representatives of the commission made a number of promises to the commission on measures to prevent the abhorrent sex slave trade. today we are forced to admit that not many of these promises have been fulfilled. the world cup is in full swing and the brothel business is booming. women and children are brought into the eu from other parts of the world for sexual exploitation. the united nations estimates that each year four million people are trafficked within or between countries for sexual exploitation. they are transported around, sold and bought for consumption by human traffickers, sex tourists, porn producers and so-called common men. young women from poor backgrounds are lured by promises of work, livelihood, and a better life. then they are stripped of their ids, kept in confinement, rarely know where they are in the world, hear only foreign languages, are beaten, threatened, and above all, they are to serve their bodies in any way the customers may want. prostitution is one of the most profitable activities in the eu, along with arms and drugs trafficking. there is only one way to stop this trade, and that is to reduce the demand for sexual services. reducing demand means making the buyer, the customer, visible and criminalizing him. without customers, there is no demand. if we do, we will have taken the decisive steps to stop this terrible trade. the links between the legalisation of prostitution and the increase in the number of victims of trafficking need to be thoroughly investigated. the sex buyer does not care where the prostitute comes from or under what circumstances she works as a prostitute, but she is reduced to a body that can be bought. women in the sex trade are victims of men's violence against women. i don't make any moral judgments about prostitution. these are strictly political issues. no one will have to prostitute themselves. for example, a 1999 study revealed that 80 percent of the women in brothels in the netherlands are victims of the sex-slave trade. in the german brothel industry, nine out of ten prostitutes are from eastern europe and the former soviet union. since prostitution was legalized in the netherlands, the sex trade with children exploded. in 1999, there were 4,000 child prostitutes, by 2001 the number had risen to 15,000, according to the organization children's rights. let the world cup in germany be historic, not only because of what happens at the matches but above all because we are finally addressing these issues. let this world cup be remembered as a sporting event that took the decisive steps to end the sex slave trade.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to begin by joining the chorus of thanks to the rapporteur for a job well done. if we compare the position of the committee on the environment with the common position of the council, there is a huge difference in quality in terms of environmental content. the council's common position is a bit like a swiss cheese full of holes. these are areas where member states can do a little bit of what they want with the budget or choose not to do anything at all. i think that is totally unacceptable. there was a great deal of agreement in the committee, with 50 members voting for the proposals and none voting against. this should give christa klaß a very strong platform which i am sure she will use to the best of her ability in the negotiations with the council of ministers. the most important area is the position of agriculture and the fact that it is not given a special status which means that it is exempt from the obligations. the most important is nitrate emissions. today, nitrate emissions from agriculture are perhaps the most serious source of groundwater pollution. in large parts of the eu we have problems with nitrate levels in groundwater that are directly harmful to health. of course, this means that we have to address what is the main problem, in this case emissions from agriculture. for us this is the crucial question. reduced nitrate emissions from agriculture are good for groundwater, but they also have other positive effects. nitrate emissions are also a major cause of the over-fertilization of lakes, seas and streams today. while we get a better situation for groundwater, we can also do something about other major environmental problems. this is evident, for example, in the case of the baltic sea, where we have a major problem of over-fertilisation due to agricultural emissions. i would therefore recommend that we vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment and that we carry out a tough conciliation with the council of ministers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a very important decision that parliament will have to take this week to achieve the lisbon objectives and to reconcile welfare and environmental responsibility with global competitiveness. it is based on a very good proposal by commissioner potočnik and an excellent report by rapporteur buzek. unfortunately, the council has made it more difficult for us, in terms of the budget, to live up to the expectations and ambitions that we share in the major political groups. i welcome the focus on the networks of excellence and the simplification of bureaucracy. i think that the problem is the uncertainty that still exists with regard to the european research council. the review of all the material to be carried out in order to definitively clarify the position of the european research council should be set for 2008. it is also important that we have tabled amendments concerning smes and participation and involvement from different groups around europe. as far as women are concerned, we know that discrimination still exists in all member states in the field of research and development, both in terms of content and participation. i also believe that the technology platforms will mean a great deal to european industry. the issue that has caused the most problems is stem cell research. i can say that the system we have today works very well. research carried out with this technology in support is extremely important for the work to deal with the major diseases of the people, diabetes, rheumatism, alzheimer's and parkinson's, that is to say diseases which concern many european citizens. it is our duty to use the opportunities available in an ethical and responsible way. now that we can help people, we have to seize that opportunity. i and the alde group support the proposal that has been voted on in the committee on industry. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. in agreement with the rapporteur, mr stephen hughes, who cannot be here today, i would like to request referral back to committee for reconsideration. the reason is what happened the last time this matter was moved down to the last item on the agenda. this meant that the majorities that would normally have existed did not exist and that a number of proposals were therefore rejected. i therefore ask that the matter be referred back to committee so that we can have a large number of proposals. thank you, thank you!
in writing. we believe that a european policy on floods, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity, is justified only in cases where crossborder waterways are involved. we therefore supported amendment no 81 which unfortunately fell through in plenary.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is of course great that we have regular forums and mechanisms to develop and deepen our partnership with russia. however, this type of summit, like the one held in sochi, may not be optimal. they tend to be hoarded very much with high expectations and rather small results. this particular meeting was not very productive. on the other hand, it's better to take things slow and try to find quality in the relationships that we have. we have a lot in common with russia: trade, environment, energy. this is particularly evident now in connection with the blackmail by russia with energy weapons, which is scandalous and shameful. in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and a number of conflicts, increased cooperation between russia and europe would be needed. it is gratifying that russia is on the same side as us and the united states in the negotiations with iran, but it is less gratifying that russia is playing solo with regard to belarus, hamas, etc. as so many colleagues here have already pointed out, we must be extremely clear about values in our relations with russia. the developments we have seen recently are very worrying in terms of human rights and democracy. the trend is backwards. we had foreign minister lavrov visiting the foreign affairs committee a month ago. he said that europe and the european parliament had a very emotional view of human rights. he was saying that we're a little too fixated and one-eyed. i think that's a nice compliment, but i don't think it was meant as such. it is extremely important that we are clear when we talk about the situation of ngos, the shrinking freedom of the media, the concentration of power to putin. this is very, very serious and we must keep stressing this. in our resolution on russia which we voted on just over a year ago, we pointed out the need for a very clear, well thought out and values-based approach towards russia. the hope we expressed then, unfortunately, still remains.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if i understand the commissioner correctly, you are therefore defending the continuation of the investment in sakhalin ii, even though this is contrary to most of the bank's own criteria. criterion one is that only projects that cannot be easily financed otherwise should be granted. shell, who owns the company in question, made $23 billion last year, so they can probably afford to find money elsewhere. sustainable development is the ebrd's top priority, but in this case, it has built first and checked second. the advice of the expert group you mention was ignored until it was too late. the environmental problems were not addressed at all; i have here a long list of environmental problems that have not been addressed. stakeholder dialogue has also not been carried out as planned. seventeen organizations have opposed it. it's a monologue, not a conversation.
please, commissioner, when we discuss this in the future, can we make sure that the small enterprises are more involved than the first time around. one of the reasons it was rejected was that many small developers felt threatened by this legislation and the big lobby organisations followed the big companies’ lines, which in most cases are contrary to the good healthy development of alternatives because they will be strangled by the patents of the big companies. so please make sure they have their voices heard from the beginning next time. if not, the next issue will be blocked the second time round.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. my country, sweden, is one of the countries which has taken the initiative in this proposal. my party pushed this very hard in the election campaign. so we are very happy and grateful that it has come to this. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ioannis varvitsiotis, in particular for his excellent work. in sweden we have a lot of crime that people who have come across the baltic sea are behind. it seems to us quite reasonable that many of these criminals can serve their sentences in their home countries. then it may be noted that sometimes it may be more dissuasive to apply that principle. in our country we have discovered that our prisons seem to have a very strong international 'attraction'. i think it is reasonable that a criminal should be able to be transferred to the country with which the criminal in question has the closest connection and that the punishment should be served there. the rapporteur developed this very well and also brought up the important social aspect, i.e. the family and social cohesion, which is a strong and important argument. in line with the development of the whole criminal justice and police area, we must of course ensure that we can transfer convicted persons in a simple and less bureaucratic way. we simply need a flexible mechanism to implement this, which this framework decision certainly contributes to. the framework decision also establishes the right of the sentenced person to express his views, which is of course important, while the criteria for transfer are exemplary. i would like to conclude by pointing out how unreasonable it is to me that the council is not present this evening. i think it is an institutional affront to ignore the debate in parliament, which represents the interests of the citizens, when we are discussing such important issues, even on the basis of an initiative from the council, and particularly when we are discussing the data protection issues that are so hot around europe. i am deeply sorry that the presidency is not present.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner špidla, you are here. we speak very often in parliament, and rightly so, about non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all. i welcome both that debate and this report. i can only hope that the member states will take concrete action and that the european year of equal opportunities for all will be a success so that we can achieve a society that is truly for everyone, regardless of disability, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc. in this area we need to cooperate with ngos and to draw on their expertise. the fact that various forms of discrimination are frequently discussed in this parliament is, i believe, due to the fact that this is a very important and complex issue, but perhaps above all it shows how incredibly much remains to be done. i would like to make one further observation, however, namely that the discriminated groups themselves are never allowed to make their views known. i therefore wonder how many members in this parliament, or in the national parliaments, are disabled, for example, belong to a minority group or have another ethnic background. most of us belong to the normative population of the member states. as long as this is the case in the political, economic, educational and social and economic spheres, i believe that special measures must be taken. i believe that discrimination has been going on for so long, despite all the talk of change. to change this situation, we must be able to apply positive discrimination. today we actually use the opposite, so-called negative discrimination, which means that disabled people, minority groups and women must be more knowledgeable, better, etc. in order to compete with the norm-setting groups. it's definitely not a level playing field. it is against democracy, which means that everyone should have equal opportunities. that is why i am also in favour of quotas to change this situation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the draft council conclusions begin with the heading 'europe listens, europe listens'. the question is, is that true? if the eu is listening, does the eu really care what people say? a year ago, the referendums in the netherlands and france sent a clear message to the eu. the draft constitution was rejected by large majorities. if the eu had listened, this decision would have been respected. instead, however, a so-called reflection period was initiated with the unspoken but clear aim of having the same constitution enacted later despite the will of the people. now debate and reflection have been called for, but a debate which is aimed only at the same constitution being dammed by a later one is pointless. all the answers in such a discussion are given in advance. such a period of reflection risks becoming a manipulation, not a genuine democratic debate. if we want to have an open debate on the future of the eu, we must respect the democratic rules of the game and make it clear that the constitution has fallen once and for all.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the draft conclusions of the presidency note expressions such as the eu listening to its citizens and the dialogue with citizens. both of these terms refer to a situation with two parties. so, then, which parties are opposed to each other in some sense? strangely enough, it's the people of europe and the establishment. this means that the political representatives do not in practice see themselves as representatives of the people but as a group, an establishment, in opposition to the people. this is very unfortunate. this is why we are always so surprised and shocked by the outcome of the occasional european referendum. the european party structure is completely outdated. europeans cannot vote for the parties they have and at the same time express their deep scepticism of the eu. this is something we must change in the future, so that we do not continue with this unworthy game. the establishment must listen to the people and be prepared to enter into dialogue with them. the establishment shall represent the people.
in writing. the initiatives of austria, finland and sweden seem to be commendable. it is in principle positive to facilitate the acceleration of the transfer of sentenced persons to a particular state with which they are in any way connected and where it is considered likely that optimal social reintegration can take place. it is worth noting, however, that there is already a convention and an additional protocol of the council of europe on the transfer of sentenced persons. the junilist also considers that judicial and police cooperation should be intergovernmental. these issues are to be decided by unanimity in the council and subject to the control of national parliaments, not supranational institutions such as the european parliament. the junilist has therefore voted against the report as amended by parliament, a report which contains, among other things, writings on the promotion of a european criminal code.
in writing. we want to emphasise that junilistan is against the promotion of drug-free activities. we have therefore voted against texts which go in this direction. any handling of narcotic preparations outside of medical use is harmful and something that society should not concern itself with. as regards the european centre for the control of drugs and drug addiction, we consider that this centre is not justified in principle, given the wide disparities in the policies and approaches to the fight against drugs in the member states. we have therefore voted against the report on strengthening the role of the centre.
in writing. we voted in favour of the resolution as a whole but have some important objections. firstly, the risk of pandemics should not be exaggerated. in the event of an epidemic, the eu should have a coordinating role. the main responsibility lies with the member states. the resolution places too much of the responsibility on the eu. there is certainly a need for cooperation on vaccines in special situations. this may involve the use of the vaccine where it is needed most. however, we are wondering whether the eu central vaccine stockpiles proposed by the rapporteur are the most efficient way of working. we also see many practical problems with this.
in writing. this report deals with a highly transnational issue. there is therefore good reason for the eu countries to coordinate the measures taken and the political decisions taken. we have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole. however, we would like to stress that isolated action by the eu is insufficient to address the challenges posed by the global influenza pandemic. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu acts in cooperation with the world health organisation (who). we question certain points in the report, such as the need for the commission to develop a comprehensive communication strategy together with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). we assume that the eu countries are fully capable of communicating with their citizens on their own, without the assistance of eu bodies. we are also opposed to the establishment of a common emergency stockpile of pandemic vaccines in the community. we believe that internationally recognised organisations such as the who should be working on global health issues. we criticise the fact that the european parliament is thus exploiting a major political issue to extend the international political role of the eu.
in writing. the report deals with the consequences of the ecj judgment c-176/03 which gave the eu the power to adopt the necessary penal sanctions under the first pillar to ensure the full effect of the provisions of the first pillar, in this case concerning the environment. however, there is no explicit division of powers in the area of criminal law in the ec treaty. given the considerable importance of criminal law for the sovereignty of the member states, it should not be permissible to implicitly transfer that competence to the community. furthermore, articles 135 and 280 of the ec treaty expressly lay down that member states are responsible for the application of national criminal law and the administration of justice. however, the commission has indicated that this transfer of criminal law to community competence can be of any scope and in principle cover all the areas covered by the ec treaty. the court's interpretation of the treaties thus brings together the pillars of a single institutional framework, which was a feature of the european constitution that has now been rejected. the junilista strongly opposes this erosion of national self-determination and has therefore voted against the report.
in writing. i am voting for mr bondes's motion for an alternative resolution because he criticises the ecj for trying to use environmental law as a springboard for the eu to take over large parts of criminal law. i am not, however, categorically opposed to all forms of criminal law for transnational environmental crimes. this may sometimes be required to access, for example, ships at sea that are destroying the environment.
in writing. junilistan is opposed to all forms of discrimination, whether based on gender, race, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. we have therefore decided to support the report in its entirety to show our support for the fundamental right of all citizens of the eu member states to be free from discrimination, even if we do not agree with all the texts and have therefore voted against them.
in writing. although there are points where the rapporteur wants to give the eu too much power and where national legal practices are questioned, the positive parts of this report consider non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all. the report is good on the whole, and that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. we have voted today in favour of jo leinen's motion for a resolution on the next step in the period of reflection and analysis on the future of europe. as we have said before, however, we do not believe that the charter of fundamental rights should be legally binding.
in writing. the french and dutch referendums have led to the defeat of the draft constitution. if there can be no doubt about it. two countries have voted no in referendums, and with large majorities and high turnout. the fact that the eu's power elite is now trying to explain away this is a democratic scandal. politicians and high officials are now openly discussing how to get around these currency issues. they have the audacity to interpret the votes as a dissatisfaction with the incumbent governments of both countries. they start counting the number of countries that have said yes, even though it's clear that all countries have to agree to the proposal. the gap between the political elite and the people in eu affairs has rarely been so clear. all indications are that a 'no' vote would have been taken in germany too if there had been a referendum there. the same is true in the united kingdom, sweden, denmark, and perhaps several other countries. democratic rashes are just a setback for those who have lost it because they lack popular support. let us instead create a new treaty that emphasises eu intergovernmental cooperation.
the questioner. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. so what we are discussing today is the revision of the strategy for sustainable development, a very important document from the european council meeting in gothenburg five years ago. we would have liked to have seen a more complete review and, above all, a report from the commission which would have taken stock of what has actually been achieved in these years. we would also like to see a definition of more ambitious long-term objectives. the truth is that in many areas we have not made any clear progress compared with 2001. biodiversity continues to be depleted, climate emissions are still increasing in most member states, we have social disparities, we have migratory pressure at our borders, we have a number of health problems, such as antibiotic resistance, etc. all this, of course, must be tackled in a long-term way. i would like to thank the austrian presidency for engaging us members of parliament in a meaningful way. it is a difficult issue to deal with - it is horizontal - and we must ask ourselves whether we are sufficiently well organised in the government offices, in the commission and in the european parliament. we are vertically sectorally organised, but this is a horizontal problem. we should think about this in the long term. a key issue in this context is the relationship between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy. some in this parliament want to combine these strategies in the long term. the important thing at the moment is of course to achieve the best possible coordination and to involve us members of parliament in the process. we believe that the sustainable development strategy should not be seen primarily as an obstacle or problem to growth and development but rather as an opportunity. the world is crying out for clever solutions to problems such as energy and transportation. this should be made a central issue in the lisbon process. a major advantage of the commission's new proposals is that they now include the international dimension. we are therefore seeing the eu's ecological footprint in the world increase, something that of course must be addressed. it also requires that progress in society be measured in a different way in the future. we cannot just look at gdp growth, but we have to look at a number of other factors as well. a logical consequence of the international perspective is, of course, that we must also allow the sustainability dimension to influence our development aid much, much more than we have done so far. finally, i would like to stress the importance of research. i have a number of questions to put to both the commission and the council. how do you intend to strengthen the coordination between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy, and in particular how do you intend to ensure that the environmental technology industry and innovation in this field are better stimulated? how does the commission intend to ensure that sustainability aspects are better reflected in the budget than they are today, not least in the aid budget? finally, we must tackle the problem of the eu's growing ecological footprint. are you considering any kind of action plan to address this issue?
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. sustainable development is something that is taken for granted, something that we all strive for. who could argue with that? attitudes and strategies are of great importance to the future prosperity of europe and the world in these matters. they are interconnected rather than integrated. the resolution, which originated in gothenburg five years ago, emphasises certain components of the implementation of the sustainable development strategy. the impact of strong economic development on the opportunities for creating smart technology could have been more emphasised. innovative environmental solutions may also require investment to become profitable. the resolution has an unnecessarily high administrative tone and at times too little insight into the realities of the business world. most of the resolution can be accelerated, but the market perspective must not be lost. i say this as the epp-ed's designated spokesman on this matter in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. when the resolution was permeated by the merger of the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy, we had difficulty voting for it, but now we think there is an acceptable compromise. we're not against the strategy. on the contrary, we are very much in favour of sustainable development in business, environmental work and society in general. however, we cannot accelerate the merger of the lisbon strategy and the sustainability strategy at the moment, as the lisbon strategy is already in place, unlike the sustainability strategy. we're not closing the door forever, though. after the revision that has now been made, we feel that the resolution has acquired a tone which we can broadly support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the lisbon strategy is pursuing the wrong objective. we have unemployment growth today, so that's the wrong way to get more jobs. we're chasing the wrong target, too. even at an income of around 12,000 euros a year, the link between increased income and increased happiness is diminishing. instead, you get more stress, more pollution, more inequality and more inequity. sustainable development is not just about the environment, but the environment and social conditions are intertwined in order for us to have sustainable development. today everyone is talking about sustainable development, and tomorrow we are voting on the seventh framework programme, which provides 4 billion euros for nuclear research. then more money goes to coal power research and other unsustainable research. why is that? the un climate panel has shown that the kyoto targets can only be achieved by ending fossil fuel subsidies. the audience here will be surprised. why don't we make these decisions? yes, because the lobbyists of the big corporations are getting their way on short-term growth solutions that are negative for sustainable development. we need to listen more to our audiences and less to our lobbyists, then we will have sustainable development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have been appalled by the news that has recently reached us from countries both inside and outside the eu. they testify to the very unpleasant and dangerous tendencies towards homosexuals among the peoples of europe. a fundamental principle of democracy is freedom of assembly, which is also protected by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this freedom is not always respected. in russia, the pride parade was not given a meeting status, which is clearly a violation of the convention, but also a violation of the people who wanted to peacefully exercise their democratic right. however, we do not need to go outside the eu to find similar examples. it is enough to turn our eyes to poland. from there, there's always new homophobic statements coming out of a wild political field against pride parades and things like that. this is totally reprehensible. religion is often used as a pretext. while religious freedom is certainly one of the fundamental freedoms, it must not be used as a pretext for oppression under any circumstances. we cannot accept this, either among the citizens of the member states or among our colleagues here in parliament. if we, from whatever country we come, are to call ourselves democrats, we must forcefully condemn what is happening at the moment and do everything in our power to put an end to the oppression. however, the issue is so important that it is worth asking whether the european parliament is the right forum for this. under no circumstances should the issue of homophobia be raised for the sake of cheap political points.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank paolo costa for a good report. i welcome the fact that the plenary is now revising the existing regulation which was adopted immediately after the terrorist attacks in new york on 11 september 2001. i'm replacing ewa hedkvist petersen on the committee. i was the shadow rapporteur in the libe committee and presented the amendments adopted by the committee which are to be put to the vote tomorrow, concerning the difference between postal and conventional shipping and protection against terrorist attacks. we need more security, but we also need a balance of freedom and rights. the right to have their mail distributed in an efficient manner and within a reasonable time is an important right for all eu citizens, especially those living in rural areas or outside cities and towns. several member states have mail flights, which do not have the same threat profile as other flights. the time for payment must not be several days, which would be very negative from a citizen's point of view. the amendments on postal services guarantee that citizens will not suffer from a deterioration in postal services as a result of the regulation. i would also like to comment on amendment no 22 on passengers who are likely to behave disruptively or have manifestly abnormal behaviour. it is important to clarify that we do not mean people with physical or mental disabilities. we have made air travel accessible to everyone, with ramps and facilities. i do not think that this regulation should stop this. it is also important to have clear and strict rules on when airlines are allowed to have security guards on board. the report makes a good balance between, on the one hand, the fight against the terrible terrorism that has affected air transport, and against which we want to protect ourselves, and, on the other hand, safe and functional aviation and mail and cargo handling. i welcome the report.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. herbert bösch has made a very conscientious, and in some places brilliant, review of the irregularities and fraud that are taking place in various parts of the european union and its authorities. it is one thing to discover what is going on, but it is another to then also make sure that it is corrected. the main task of these chambers is to hold people accountable. however, the house is not fulfilling its role in this area. first, we must be able to define who is responsible. many of us here have tried to enforce a system whereby a prime minister, a minister, in each country by name, guarantees that eu funds have been used correctly in his own country, so that you know that politician is responsible. secondly: once we find out who's responsible, we need to take responsibility. this chamber will do so by refusing to grant discharge where there are problems. it's not done. there are hidden connections we don't know about. i myself, as rapporteur, found abuses in the committee of the regions and asked that we postpone the discharge decision, but almost all of them voted against it. only the liberals switched sides, which is a credit to them, while the socialists and the conservatives, as usual, refused to take responsibility. this must change.
mr president, i should like to move an oral amendment, which should be indicated in colleagues’ voting lists. i have secured the agreement of all the major groups and hope it will be voted through. if that is indeed the case we do not need a split vote. the amendment would read as follows: ‘considers that sustainable development should be seen more as an economic opportunity than as a constraint, and as a spur to technological innovation investment; calls, therefore, upon the commission to ensure effective coordination of the union's growth strategies, integrating information and communications technologies and resource-efficient technologies for sustainable development and “smart growth” both at home and abroad.’ i hope the house can accept this.
in writing. in taking a position on various issues, we must always consider whether these should really be decided at eu level, not, as in this case, how the eu should be able to promote the research that an establishment wants. there will be no more money for research because the member states send it through the eu authorities. but there will be more bureaucracy and more costs. institutional competition between countries to find good solutions leads to faster progress than central governance at higher levels. the question that should have been asked is what can the eu do for research in europe that the countries themselves cannot do? in principle, it can be limited to areas such as the free movement of researchers within the eu, research networks and large-scale research in areas such as fusion energy. this is where the eu's research policy should be confined in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. we cannot therefore support stem cell research at community level, since it may lead to member states being forced to participate in funding research which is contrary to national laws in this field. however, we would like to point out that we are strong supporters of the laws and regulations that apply in sweden to this type of research. the absence of a subsidiarity argument is evident, and the junilista has voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. we have abstained in the final vote on this report. it is up to the citizens of slovenia to decide, preferably by referendum, whether they want the country to join emu. we believe that sweden should be outside the emu and we do not recommend that other countries join either, but as i said, it is up to the citizens of each country to decide this.
in writing. we support the joint motion for a resolution by the centre-left groups, even though it is the council of europe and the european court of human rights in strasbourg which are responsible for monitoring, both politically and legally, that all european states comply with the un universal declaration of human rights. the council of europe and the european court of justice should be involved in these cases, not least to ensure that the democratic freedom of gay pride in russia is upheld. it is difficult to compile a complete list of the various incidents of violence with racist or homophobic motives across europe. however, there are strong reasons to use this occasion to condemn all known statements and acts of violence which have an underlying racist or homophobic motive.
in writing. the eu is now giving too much money to large fishing companies and vessels. this should be reallocated to the benefit of small-scale fisheries. i therefore vote in favour of amendments nos 7 and 9. this effort in small-scale fisheries should be made within the existing budgetary framework. i do not want any of the measures proposed to lead to an increase in the budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the new buzzword 'absorption capacity' has filled newspaper columns across europe. what does that even mean? isn't that just a code word for operation stop turkey? does this not show a remarkable lack of leadership and a failure to articulate and explain the benefits of enlargement? we know that since may 2004 trade, growth and consumption have increased. stability and democracy have been strengthened and europe is better equipped to face our common problems. the expansion can't be used as a scapegoat. political leadership is about shaping, leading and creating opinion. i welcome the fact that the european council in brussels has increased transparency, but i regret that the question of the seat of the european parliament was not raised. this is an important issue of credibility for the eu as a whole which must be discussed at a forthcoming treaty review. more than 610,000 people from across europe have so far signed up to the citizens' initiative to have a single seat for the european parliament. if you ask for the opinion of the citizens, you must also listen. chancellor, have you signed the summons?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask for my support for the views of my colleague, karsten friedrich hoppenstedt, not least for his appreciation of the rapporteur's work. i think there are three things that are important to say in this context. firstly, the experience of consolidation in the financial markets is good. it is easy to say that there is too little crossborder consolidation. where we have seen one, it has expressed genuine integration across borders and provided good conditions for consumers and customers. another important point to be made in this context is that when we discuss the european situation we do so from the perspective of the global financial market. europe needs strong european actors, but we also need strong actors in europe to ensure that we have good access to capital. good access to capital for investment, but also a strong financial dynamic. it is in this context that it is important that larger companies can emerge in europe and it is therefore also important to welcome the consolidation we are seeing. in this context, i would also like to point out that the transatlantic market is an important thing for the european economy to develop. whatever happens with the transatlantic question of stock exchanges in europe and the united states or stock exchanges in europe as such, it is important that we seize the opportunity we have now. we have an interest in upholding as much as possible european rules in the field of accounting, common rules on competition and good corporate governance. i would urge the commission not to intervene and steer in one direction or another in the discussions on the merger of transatlantic stock exchanges, but to use this to highlight european rules, as this can give european financial markets a strong position in the global economy. it's an opportunity we must seize now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? better and simpler legislation and prevention of abuse are favoured by most. openness and transparency are often good instruments for achieving this. politicians often tend to think that companies are public institutions owned by politicians, but that is not the case. companies are property, values that belong to their owners, not the politicians. property rights are the very foundation of the market economy. don't let market forces get in the way. if the rules of the game change, companies will be discouraged; it is bad for everyone. companies need to have long-term, fixed rules of the game. my concern in today's case is about voting rights. the member states have different models for taking advantage of the interest of companies in developing their businesses, the interests of entrepreneurs. sweden has a model that was guaranteed in the compromise we reached in april 2004. i would appreciate it if klaus-heiner lehne could also listen to the speech. i am therefore less fond of the external inquiry which is to review the voting rules because experience has shown that that inquiry tends to be a little bit one-sided. the fact that objectivity has been inscribed in the requirements of the working party shows a lack of confidence from the outset. there is no guarantee of objectivity. it would therefore be appropriate to have representatives of the nordic system in this group, so that confidence is built in the nordic countries when some sort of result is finally achieved. i would like klaus-heiner lehne to listen to that. this is an own-initiative report, but it must not be used in such a way as to lock in the development after 2012. if large countries retain their voting rights and their cross ownership, then small countries should be able to do so as well. we have a deal. we have to keep it. there is nothing to say that it must be abandoned in 2012, it can be renewed. pacta sunt servanda. this is the law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, caroline lucas, for a good report that is clear. it is better to have action on quotas than free and complicated allocation. it is important that we decide clearly on separate aviation trading systems. this makes sense because the climate change impact of aviation is two to four times greater than the carbon dioxide impact alone. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. aviation is a rapidly growing and flying tax haven. the exemption from vat and fuel tax is the most egregious example. this benefits the wealthiest in society, who fly the most. paradoxically, then, low-income earners would benefit most from higher emissions taxes. this would reduce the need for government revenue in other areas where low-income earners have a larger market share, such as railways. i welcome the support of the conservative group for separate systems, and i expect the social democrats to stand up for the economically weak too.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank mr blokland for a long struggle which has finally led to an acceptable result. the council was set up by industry lobbyists and fought against the interests of consumers and the environment. i wonder what european citizens would say if they knew that a majority of their governments were fighting against the right of consumers to know the capacity of a battery they are buying. the council wants us to buy the pig in the sack. what would voters say if they knew that the council did not want batteries to be easy to remove so that they can be easily recycled or so that the life of the product can be extended? what would voters say if they knew that their governments were fighting tooth and nail for the lowest possible liability for extremely toxic heavy metals? fortunately, parliament has managed to correct most of this, but cadmium batteries in hand tools are still scandalously allowed. unfortunately, the industrial lobby won in both the council and parliament. thank you, johannes blokland, you did a good job and i will vote for it.
in writing. these funds should only go to the very poorest parts of europe, as it stands today the money goes to regions that are relatively rich this is not acceptable.
in writing. we have voted in favour of two reports which seek to reform the eu's structural policy. the work that has been started to reform this policy area is an important step in the right direction. in general, however, we are in favour of a more restrictive approach to eu regional aid. we do not support regional aid used to finance accommodation or tourist activities. we also do not support the proposed focus on research which spreads out the same field of research across different universities, rather than concentrating it in fewer places.
in writing. we have today voted against the report by mr lamassoure on the council decision on the european communities' own resources. it is important to create a more efficient and transparent budgetary process for the union. we reject, however, any idea that the eu will in future tax, for example, energy, vat or corporate profits.
in writing. i have decided to abstain when the report on the proposal for a council decision on the system of the european communities' own resources is voted. as problems and opportunities become increasingly transnational, the european union is becoming an increasingly important forum for solving these problems and making the most of these opportunities. while the process of better regulation can hopefully clear up a lot of issues that i consider to be national and why not regional, i see the majority of european citizens as important areas that need to be dealt with jointly. these include the environment, research and development and energy, where we can create a healthier environment with more jobs and long-term growth. that is why i am in principle in favour of a new system of financing for the community. however, i do not think that the current contributions from the member states, which are based more on the ability to negotiate rebates than on reflecting the needs of the countries in the eu, should be replaced by a new form of own resources based on energy, vat or corporate profits as proposed by the commission. it doesn't mean more justice. i do, however, support a large part of the report we are voting on. of course, greater transparency and simplification are welcome.
in writing. we moderates want aviation to be included in the european emissions trading system. this is an efficient and fair way of internalising the environmental costs of aviation, in accordance with the polluter pays principle. we regret that the swedish government has chosen to introduce a special solution with air taxes in sweden. this distorts competition and weakens sweden's competitiveness, while providing little or no environmental benefits compared to the introduction of aviation emissions trading. the report's call for a separate emissions trading system means that we moderates cannot support it. with a separate system, we risk achieving a smaller overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and at a much higher cost than necessary. we moderates believe that emissions trading should be introduced but in the right way. the dramatic fall in airfares in europe is fundamentally a positive development that creates prosperity, freedom of movement and connections between people. we regret that the rapporteur and the majority of this parliament seem to be of the opposite opinion. we therefore do not share the report's call for further tax increases of various kinds on the air.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the feelings of those who lose their jobs need no explanation. it does not take much imagination to understand the hopelessness, the fear of the future and the financial worries they go through, day after day. in that, parliament stands united: across the political parties, across the european countries there is support for the european social model and the support of the workers and the unemployed. when it comes to what concretely should be done, our opinions differ greatly. i firmly believe it is a serious mistake to try to protect jobs by preventing modernisation, restructuring and globalisation. it may be good for today, but it is disastrous for tomorrow. our answer to globalisation must not be evasion and conservatism but to embrace it and prepare our citizens for it. it must not stop restructuring from happening but make the transition for those affected easier. that is the starting point for the alliance of liberals and democrats in parliament when addressing the challenges presented to us by industrial restructuring and globalisation. we believe that the european union can and should play a role, but one of facilitating transition rather than one of obstruction. we are not against change. we are for change. otherwise, in ten years we will have all our jobs in china or other nice regions outside europe. we are for cooperation, education and economic growth, but they should be brought about with social and environmental responsibility. that is our task in parliament. there are a number of issues where we need european politics, not only to keep but to create new jobs all over the union. at the very heart of that we find the lisbon agenda. first and foremost it is about strengthening the individual. europe can help by encouraging and funding programmes for lifelong learning, language skills and cultural exchange, to mention a few examples. they help prepare for a labour market in transition where few jobs can be guaranteed for life. there are no jobs for life anymore but there could well be work for life. secondly, it is about strengthening european industry to be competitive in the 21st century. by giving access to an even greater internal market supporting european research and innovation, we open new opportunities that will eventually create new jobs. thirdly, to accomplish that, we need strengthened social dialogue addressing issues of change such as the need for companies to facilitate transition for those losing their jobs, and environmental rules for sustainable economic development. it has a lot to do with european leadership, about explaining the challenges we are facing and about doing what we can to facilitate the journey into the future by preparing individuals and businesses; but not about making false promises, protecting jobs and hoping for short-term political gains. that is the liberal answer to the challenges of globalisation and industrial reform.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall concentrate my remarks on the principal aspects of restructuring. i would like to say, however, that i support the portuguese workers in their efforts to maintain and develop their employment. i also know from previous experience that, as martin schulz mentioned, gm has not always been good at social dialogue, for example in the case between the german and the swedish factory, where workers from different countries were pitted against each other. that's an attitude i don't like. i share the view that restructuring is not new. we've always lived with restructuring. in my town, there was once a rubber factory that no longer exists. almost everyone worked there. restructuring will continue. in some cases, the restructuring is poorly managed. this leads to job losses and the loss of regions. but there are also good examples of restructuring, where it has meant that new jobs have been created and that regions have been able to survive and even develop with more long-term employment. what's the secret? yeah, there are a few things. it's long-term, it's participatory and it's socially responsible. firstly, the long term. companies that have no long-term development of their own on how to cope with global competition and that take subsidies only for the short term and then leave the region, i don't give much for. in addition, you must have a share in the most important asset you have in your company, namely your employees. employees are the most important resource and should not only be informed and consulted when changes occur. they must be part of the restructuring process, be able to participate and influence it. then you don't have to go out on the streets and protest. then you can create the new jobs. it is a question of taking social responsibility at an early stage, of training staff to be able to meet the long-term challenges of the future and of the regions, because it is often companies that play a major role in regions where social responsibility is required. as for the automobile industry, it has become increasingly globalised and includes fewer and fewer companies. it's going to need a restructuring. at european level, we can do a number of things. we can strengthen the works councils, as pierre jonckheer said, and the directives on works councils. we can work on information and consultation. i believe that we need framework agreements between the various sectors and trade unions at european level to cope with the changes in the future. it's becoming more important. we have to live with restructuring, but it can be made successful if employees are involved and if companies take social responsibility. (applause from the left)
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i'm not going to continue to be connected to the football world. i would argue, however, that the lisbon strategy has failed in terms of growth and employment. politicians often blame globalization as if it were an anonymous, uncontrollable development. it's not. it is political decisions that fundamentally determine the impact of globalization. in terms of research and development, it is an investment in the future. however, this report shows in area by area of research and development where the eu has so far failed. the report highlights factors which are important for changing the situation. i would say that the basis of all successful research and development is a great deal of freedom in the research world with as little regulation and control as possible. freedom for individual researchers but also freedom for state and regional support for research and development. that's often where the knowledge is. there is therefore some concern about the proposed comprehensive regulatory framework. research does not need more rules, research needs more freedom and resources. research and development policy is not gender neutral, like all other policies. women researchers face major problems in recruiting new researchers and in accessing research capital. this imbalance obviously has major implications for research and development. the success of the lisbon programme's research and development programmes depends on the skills of women researchers being harnessed. i support the view in the report that future research must give priority to the environment and sustainable development. this, together with the acquisition of female competence in research, can be the difference between success and failure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we discuss european industry, there may be reason to ask: where are our leading industries today? they are in the areas where we have opened up to a global economy. europe has its strongest industry in the areas and companies that operate worldwide. in other words, i think there is reason to emphasize the debate that is being held here today, namely that the european economy is more dependent than other parts of the world on the global economy. if you disregard the global economy, europe would not have the manufacturing industry that we have today. it is against this background that i would like to say that there are three points which are important when we discuss the future of european industry. firstly, competition is the best basis for innovation and for new industrial structures. looking back, it is undeniable that it is by being open to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship that europe has seen its large, strong industries grow. secondly, it is important that we make sure that we are open to the new age of enterprises - whether they are manufacturing or service industries, which are also growing together. that says a lot about what we have to do in the face of the various free trade negotiations and the wto negotiations. we cannot have a policy that means protecting the old industry, which will not provide the new jobs of the future. we must instead open up the world to european companies. this is especially true in the global economy, where we will see a billion and a billion more people emerge as strong consumers. unless europe and european industry have full access to the market that is emerging there, we will not be able to have the world's leading industry. we are doomed to be a regional economy. that is why we must have a transparency that enables europe to be a world-leading economy. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to thank you. it may seem that we are discussing a technical matter, but in fact there are two very fundamental issues that we have been dealing with in the european parliament. secondly, it is the safety of the mode of transport, the air, which is increasing day by day. more and more people depend on aviation for their daily lives, but it is also important for industry. at the same time, it is about the limits of human ability under difficult and risky conditions. how much work can you do in uncomfortable hours and still maintain a high level of safety? these are the issues which have been important to the european parliament and which have given us so much time. i would like to thank ulrich stockmann for the wonderful cooperation we have had and the good compromise we have now reached. i am also one of those who think we should vote for the compromise because we need rules at european level. pilots and cabin crew are key people in the air when it comes to safety. for us passengers, it is never acceptable that security is tampered with to bring down prices or to allow companies to compete with each other. the working conditions of pilots are well established, but competition must not lead to a deterioration in their conditions. that is why the two-year review is very important. medical and scientific service provision must be ensured within easa by europe's leading experts in the field of service, rest, sleep and fatigue. cabin crew must also have good knowledge and training, all cabin crew. their duties have changed and become increasingly important since 9/11. we must therefore also contribute to high levels of safety and to high levels of competence of cabin crew. we do that in the compromise. finally, the agreements vary from one member state to another. i think it is important that those member states which have better legislation or collective agreements should not have to adjust downwards. we need non-regression.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president of the council! president of the commission! i share the finnish presidency's view that globalisation is a challenge. i also think it is good to have a balance between flexibility and social security, security in change. i look forward to the finnish presidency finding a solution to the services directive. it will build on the parliament's proposals, which strike precisely that balance between greater openness and flexibility, but also security on the labour market and protection of public services. there is one issue which i think the finnish presidency should address. the proposal from parliament and the proposal from the commission and the council do not include the staffing companies. at the same time, staffing firms are growing in importance across europe. there is a commission proposal on staffing companies. we've responded to it, but it's blocked in the council. it is time to end this deadlock so that we can have an agreement and a framework on the staffing companies. the finnish presidency can help in this respect. i welcome your initiative on the working time directive. it is also about balancing health and safety not too long working hours and at the same time flexibility. to achieve flexibility we in parliament are convinced that there is no need for an opt-out. there are other instruments to foster flexibility. i look forward to solutions in these areas and also share poul nyrup rasmussen's view that this must be done in cooperation with the social partners. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! mr president of the commission! as a representative not only of a neighbouring country but also of a brotherly country, i would like to say that i am proud and looking forward to the finnish presidency. we have a very common history and a common geography, but we also share a common present. we joined the european union together and are still counted among the new members, with all the freshness that this can bring. we have seen how the enlargement of the european union in recent years has completely changed our world, thanks to european cooperation, where the baltic sea is today, to a very large extent, a sea that binds countries together. we have an internationalised economy which shows us that this is a prerequisite for prosperity and employment, not a threat to our well-being. we have a business that is growing together. we also work together on a joint battle group, which is the only one that brings small countries together. finland is also an example for the rest of us who place high demands on your presidency. this is the case with finnish energy policy, where you can combine increased competitiveness and reduced dependence on the outside world with greater respect for the environment and the kyoto objectives. it is finland's unique ability to manage its relations with russia that gives this presidency the opportunity to lay the foundations for a solid russia policy for the whole of the european union. it is our experience of enlargement that requires finland to take the question of continued enlargement forward with determination and determination, with clear demands but also a clear objective, including the possibility of turkey becoming a member. it is also a matter of course that with the openness and determination that characterise finland, the european union should be made a cooperation which is open, transparent and easily accessible to its citizens. i wish you all the best. the demands are high because the example is clear.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group i should like to request a roll-call vote on this one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr minister, commissioner franco frattini, colleagues and members of the public! i would also like to thank giovanni claudio fava for all the work on the interim report and the excellent work that has been done by others. when parliament and we in the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners started our work, i did not have such high expectations of what we could achieve; a lot had happened years ago. but i'm pleasantly surprised. our work is showing results that aim to make europe safer and human rights stronger. as a swedish social democrat and a proud witch, as some people have chosen to call us, i am particularly pleased that we have now come together on the issues of extraordinary renditions and diplomatic guarantees and that we are clarifying the boundaries between counter-terrorism, humane refugee policy and respect for human rights - also in times of crisis and after the terrorist attacks of 11 september in new york. the expulsion from sweden of the egyptians mohamed al zery and ahmed agiza by government decision has shown us solutions that we do not want to see any more of. the cia's solutions are not sustainable, either in the short or long term, or for the eu and the rest of the world. the committee needs more time. we have learned from our mistakes and we will propose measures and safety nets to ensure that we do not find ourselves in similar situations in the future. the citizens of the eu expect us to cope better with future crises in cooperation between the council of europe, all the countries of europe and us in the european parliament. commissioner franco frattini's thoughts on the security services, the controls we will continue to need for flights and the balance in the fight against terrorism are interesting.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i'm all for fair trade. for me, it's free trade, a trade without tariffs and quotas in an environment where free enterprise and property rights are respected. this report takes a different view in some parts and in some places it seems to be almost the opposite. the report mixes two different kinds of fair trade. when companies and organizations themselves define what they think is fair and then offer the consumer products that are made according to those criteria, that is consumer power and something very good. the second is when politicians get involved in a voluntary business relationship and set terms and prices that they consider fair and then call that fair trade. to me, that's socialism and something really bad. the report proposes to give fair trade companies their own legal basis and to set policy objectives and criteria. it's to transform the important power of consumption into some kind of socialist planned economy. i am surprised that so many members of this house think this is desirable. although fairness is an expression of consumer power and something very good, i would like to conclude by urging everyone, politicians and citizens, to continue to be critical consumers, especially in relation to fairly labelled goods. they often give more money and influence to organizations that are guided by leftist ideals and resistance to free trade than to the very poor in underdeveloped countries. tropicana and dole's orange juice probably do more to help development and poverty reduction than, say, this one from oxfam. the european parliament's headless embrace of oxfam is a good example of how crazy it can be when we are uncritical in embracing fair products. the oxfam orange juice that is sold in this house, for example, comes from cuba. until someone explains to me how it can be called fair trade when i buy government juice and my money goes to a communist dictatorship, i demand that oxfam's products be removed from the entire range of parliament's products, because that is not fair trade.
in writing. we abstain from voting on this report, as it presents parliament with an unsolvable dilemma. on the one hand, it is implementing an international treaty and voting against it would simply reinforce the commission’s position. on the other hand, we cannot support the introduction of ever more legislation intruding on privacy without further evidence that a massive surveillance of innocent citizens increases safety or is helpful in preventing acts of terror. it has been shown that money flows for the funding of terrorism are increasingly going underground, making use of cash and transferring money using couriers. further, no matter what steps are taken to protect privacy, the temptation to use these for other purposes by authorities will be great and so far no-one has created a register that does not leak information. we are also deeply concerned about the effects on ngos promoting democracy and human rights in undemocratic regimes. an extensive register, even though we are told it will not be used that way, will undoubtedly impair their activities. in abstaining, we also urge the parliament to start discussing a comprehensive policy on protection of privacy and civil liberties. the present course, where liberties are curtailed step by step, must come to an end.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report because it is not a legislative report and it makes many good proposals. it emphasises gender equality, the rights of asylum seekers and assistance for integration and cooperation. however, i am against its proposal for increased eu power over migration policy as this leads to deterioration both practically and democratically. i am against the inefficient new funds proposed which the eu will not be able to administer. i am also against the cost-ineffective proposal to pay the wage gap for high-income workers moving back.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is clear that the wto crisis is deepening. there is a risk that the failure at the wto ministerial meeting last week to bring members closer to trade deals represents another step towards the final betrayal of the very idea of a development round. some have even said that the meeting was counterproductive, with an atmosphere even more difficult than before, but perhaps the silver lining is that developing countries are united in insisting that rich countries put development at the heart of the process as a matter of course and deliver on their extremely long-standing promises. more than two thirds of the wto membership – developing and least-developed countries – declared that they were prepared to make a deal, but that industrial countries have to make the greatest contribution to show real leadership. i am glad the eu signalled that it was prepared to move closer to the g20 position, particularly by lowering domestic support, but there are still loopholes in the eu offer that would undermine the potential of a true development deal. the us offer is of course still far removed from what is necessary to stop dumping and protect food security. as regards the special and differential treatment in agriculture, the development box, it is not clear whether the commission will support the g33 request for a significant percentage of products to be covered in order to guarantee food security. i would be grateful if commissioner mandelson could set out the eu position and hopefully distinguish it from the extremely damaging proposals from the us. on nama, the commission is still demanding too much extreme liberalisation, which will threaten the very survival of some developing countries’ local manufacturing and it is hardly in the spirit of the development round to demand action on applied tariff levels rather than, as usual, bound tariff levels. it looks very unlikely that we will have an agreement in july and the timetable is too hurried. we should have a reflection period on the reasons for the failure of the doha round. we must learn lessons from this and ensure things are better processed through a much reformed wto and obtain a clear understanding of the role of trade and delivering sustainable development. perhaps in that way we can devise a development round generally worthy of the name.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner peter mendelsohn for the openness you showed to the four of us who made up the parliament's delegation in geneva last weekend. it was very rewarding and i think we had a very good working relationship. there is an intrinsic value in getting a new wto agreement. trust is needed, both in the wto and in multilateralism as such. it is, however, the only system which has delivered real liberalisations of world trade. i think, however, that we are entitled to demand more than just an agreement from all parties. we deserve an ambitious agreement, one that gives increased market access for both agricultural and industrial goods for all developed and developing countries and that does not bypass services. this is essential for the development of the poor countries, but also for our european companies to gain access to new markets. in the long run, there are only losers in a doha light or a complete failure of the doha round. i therefore do not think that there are any grounds for the closed positions we are seeing in several parties at the moment. it is easy to see the problems in the negotiations. the economic reality should be enough to convince all parties to make a little extra effort, not least the eu-brazil-us triangle that was in full focus at the geneva weekend. all these countries have strong pragmatic reasons to take a further step. in the united states, for example, even the most dogmatic agricultural protectionists should realize that it is better to give up their agricultural subsidies in negotiations and gain market access in important areas in return, rather than being forced to give them up after a breakdown in a dispute resolution panel, where they will get nothing at all in return. the sugar panel that we were hit with and that gave us a sugar reform of our support for sugar producers should have given us the same insight. the eu should also understand the absurdity of losing out on far more important market opportunities for industrial goods and services because of the defence of agricultural aid which we all know is fundamentally unsustainable. it is therefore gratifying that the commission seems to have moved closer to the advanced developing countries' g20 demands to reduce high agricultural duties. it is vital to save the chances of finding a deal. now we must ensure that we address flexibility so that it applies only to the really sensitive products, and not provide flexibility to satisfy loud special interests. we in europe should, if we have any, understand the importance of trade without tariffs and barriers. we who benefit from the single market every day. (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to thank you. protectionists are reluctant to admit that their proposals are protectionist, but often conceal their intentions. mandatory origin marking is one example. i think it is time to dispel some of the myths that the protectionists are spreading about this particular proposal. the first myth is that consumers demand it, but the truth is that most people don't care. the advocates rely on the commission's internet consultation on the issue, but they do not mention that 96,7% of the responses came from a single country italy, where the industry is driving the issue. the second myth is that labelling provides relevant information to consumers, but in the global marketplace, products and components are often of different countries of origin. it may be directly misleading to indicate a country of origin. the third myth is that labelling strengthens european competitiveness, but new technical barriers to trade to protect european industry have nothing to do with competitiveness. it is only strengthened by open markets in a good business climate. the fourth myth is that mandatory labelling would provide more consumer protection, as if safety were a matter of geography. it may at most be relevant for agricultural products, which are excluded from this proposal. the last myth is that it is a cheap proposal, but the commission's own impact assessment finds, for example, that imported clothes are on average €11.5 more expensive, and a pair of shoes €2 more expensive. the cost will be in the millions, if not billions. in my view, origin labelling is a poorly concealed protectionism which will be expensive and all just to impose new non-tariff barriers on foreign competitors. why else would there be a clear rejection of the introduction of 'ec' labelling, something which is dismissed as creating unnecessary costs for european producers? it is now forbidden to require origin labelling from other member states, because it is protectionism. to demand that from third countries without acknowledging that this is precisely protectionism is, in my view, hypocritical.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating karin riis-jørgensen on her report. i would like to stress that this proposal does not constitute a european tax policy or that the european union is infringing the sovereignty of the member states in deciding on taxes, but that even with this proposal it will be entirely up to the individual member states to decide how much they want to tax motoring. what we are deciding here is the structure and the system of taxation, because it facilitates the internal market. this will make it easier to buy and sell cars across national borders. the beneficiaries of this are basically the individual consumer. i would like to say to our danish colleague, mr auken, that what is important to us is to have new, modern cars. there's nothing more environmentally dangerous than the old car park. new technology is good for the environment. we shall do everything we can to ensure that cars are sold and modernised rapidly in europe. i would like to stress that it is good that karin riis-jørgensen has also included in her report a proposal for tax incentives for new types of engines, such as hybrid cars or cars powered by other fuels. it also provides an opportunity for more rapid development in terms of increased environmental considerations in motoring. a number of years ago, in sweden, we introduced a special incentive for the use of catalysts which was very quickly adopted and led to very rapid reductions in emissions. it's an opportunity to move forward on that path. it is also important, however, that this focus on the taxation of cars will give the european car industry an opportunity to develop more quickly in terms of environmental considerations. it also means a more rapid modernisation. better cars in europe are good for the environment, but it can also result in a better and stronger car industry.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, daphne is the young woman in greek mythology who was chased by the god apollo. his intention was to rape her, but he failed. the moment apollo touched her, daphne was transformed into a laurel tree and she was saved from being raped. in the european parliament, the name daphne stands for an important initiative. ten years ago, in the late summer of 1996, europe exploded with the knowledge of what came to be known as the dutroux affair. the discovery of the bodies of a number of missing girls in a town in belgium raised serious questions about what we do to protect women and children from those who abuse or exploit them for profit. in april 1997, a large number of representatives from ngos, the european parliament, the european commission, law enforcement agencies and other experts, gathered in brussels for a hearing on these subjects. maybe the most important result of that hearing was a commitment from the commission to launch the daphne initiative. what it amounts to is to put force behind the words; to give the campaign against violence a substantial budget. the idea behind it was simple enough: to provide financial support for projects which would bring together ngos from at least two member states to cooperate in research, data collection and analysis, good practice identification and sharing, training exchange and networking, awareness-raising and information campaigns, but also direct action to support victims of violence and produce guidelines and protocols. it seems simple enough, and who could possibly be against it? but, as we all know, our society is characterised by a systematic devaluation of the things women say, do and decide. that gender power structure affects everything and is at its most visible in the phenomenon of men’s violence against women. because of that, the daphne initiative has been under constant threat ever since it started. it should be obvious that we should not mix the fight against violence with the fight against drugs; they are simply two different areas. it is the commission that runs the daphne project, but in this house it is lissy gröner who should receive praise and support when we discuss the ‘reborn’ daphne initiative. she is one of the pioneers. of course, there is still a long way to go before we reach the necessary zero tolerance towards violence against women and children. the long-term importance of the daphne initiative is the way it can affect grassroots organisations, deeply embedded in all member states of the union. zero tolerance is the goal and daphne is one of the means of achieving it.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i would first like to thank rapporteur lissy gröner for her excellent report and for her commitment to these issues. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on equality for their commitment to combating violence against women. violence against women and children is a priority for the daphne iii programme. men's violence against women occurs in all social groups. it is not possible to single out specific groups, specific factors such as alcohol and drug abuse. violence against women and children is a fact of life. although survey after survey confirms that violence permeates all social groups, many still refuse to see the truth that violence is everywhere. there are still myths about alcohol or drugs being involved. to combat violence against women, we must dispel these myths that it is 'those', 'the others' or 'the abusers' who abuse women and children. it may just as well be our neighbor, workmate, or relative who is the abuser. this is one of the reasons why the daphne programme has to be divided into two separate programmes, namely a specific programme for the prevention and combating of violence against women and children and a specific programme for the prevention of drug abuse and information. if a joint programme were to be developed for these two different social problems, the myth that there is a link between abuse and violence by men against women would continue to be reinforced. so it leads to the belief that if we solve the problem of addiction, we solve the problem of violence. however, this is not the case. both are societal problems that need to be solved, but they require different measures. i therefore note with appreciation that the commission has accepted a division into separate programmes. the gue/ngl group fully supports the report. we believe it is particularly important that trafficking in women and children for sexual purposes should also be included in the programme. this is important because everything must be done to combat the modern-day slave trade. however, it is also important to highlight that this slave trade is another expression of the violence against women and children. there are two concepts in the report which i would like to rename. firstly, there is the concept of 'domestic violence'. i think we should call it what it is, namely, male violence against women. violence against women does not occur only within the walls of the home. women who live in abusive relationships live with this physical and mental torture around the clock. the second concept i question is the concept of the 'private sphere'. there is no reason to make a division between a public and a private sphere. violence against women is a criminal act, whether it occurs in public or in private.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. it is a great defeat that on a late summer day in 2006 we still have to stand and talk about gender-based violence, honor killings and genital mutilation. it shows that this is somehow still an accepted phenomenon in society and something that we haven't really addressed. until we agree that abuse, both physical and mental, is a violation of human rights, including for women and children, millions of women and children will be subjected to this very thing. one way of showing that we agree to signal this as unacceptable behaviour is to endorse and underline the international documents that exist: the un convention on women, the un convention on the rights of the child, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the daphne programme. i am shocked to hear that the ind/dem group will vote against parts of this programme. whether it's threats, violence or other abuses, with horrific acts like genital mutilation, it can never be explained away or justified by reference to tradition or culture. this means that we must have a discussion in the workplace, in schools, at the kitchen table and also with the peacekeepers we send out on behalf of the un. the countries with which we have agreements need support. i was talking to women in kiev, ukraine, about this on saturday. i have also discussed this a lot with women's groups from turkey. there is much to be done in this area. many of the proposals in today's report are very good. we also need to review the sentencing scales. in sweden, for example, the maximum penalty for serious sexual abuse of children is the same as for serious accounting offences. in new york, they've been able to reduce the number of crimes against women and violence against women. i see this as a first step towards achieving the same thing in europe, but that requires that we agree on how unacceptable and terrible this situation is.
in writing. we chose to abstain. we consider that the proposed aid should not be financed under the agricultural budget, since it is not an agricultural aid but rather a regional aid.
in writing. the junilist supports eu cooperation on cross-border environmental issues. however, we do not believe that the maritime safety agency should be allocated additional resources. the urgent tasks which the rapporteur proposes to be assigned to this agency can be carried out, with advantage, outside the framework of this agency. the junilist is critical of the large number of agencies, authorities and decentralised bodies that have been set up within the eu. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. of course, junilista wants to contribute to the fight against violence against women, but the report means that the eu will have a legal basis to intervene in the most sensitive areas of the member states, namely legislation and prevention measures against violence. today's european countries do not share a common view on these issues, and the legal cultures of these countries differ. the report is also very vague. the parliament's proposal contains too many vague concepts, while at the same time telling the member states how they should combat violence and oppression against women. a clear example of this is amendment no 14, which indirectly recognises that certain groups of men are more likely to be violent towards their women than other wealthy men of other ethnicities. there is no statistical support for this claim or reference to scientific studies. the parliament's proposals also fail to take account of the cultural and legal problems which they pose to the member states. the junilista has therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the eu member states have veto power over taxation decisions. we would welcome it if the eu member states could agree to cooperate on vehicle taxation, which reduces the climate impact of transport and leads to a better functioning internal market. we may be able to accept registration taxes in the future if they are designed in a way that leads to clear environmental improvements.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs who have done a very good job together. it has become a good report. i am often asked at home in sweden whether there really is a european social model and whether we do not have different models. i would say that it is true that our social systems are different, but that they also have a great deal in common, and that is what the european social model is all about. we all have systems that are built on solidarity with people who become unemployed, sick or injured at work. we all have a public sector where we fund what is common, to varying degrees. we also have the social partners and civil society that play a big role in the process of shaping our societies. those are the common denominators. if the social model is based on shared values within different systems, we can learn from each other in the process we are in. it is not that the social model or the various social systems are immutable. as so many others have said in this debate, they must constantly change, not in terms of values but in terms of the systems themselves. the two major challenges now are demographic change and globalisation. the demographic development means that we must also show solidarity with the next generation. the next generation should not have to pay an unreasonable amount of what it produces to us who are retiring and needing a lot of health care. that is why we must create sustainable pension systems. however, we must also ensure that we create a working environment which allows people to remain in the labour market, which means, among other things, reasonable working hours. we must have skills development that also allows the older workforce to be part of the change in terms of skills development and the like, and thus remain in work. that way we can get more people into the workforce. we may also need to take in more people from outside europe in the future, which is probably what will happen. there are two ways to go about globalization. one way is to adapt to the competitive economies of china and india, that is, in terms of wages, in terms of labour market conditions, etc. the other way is that we actually try to compete by having well-trained personnel, by research and development, etc., that make our workforce and the products it produces the best in the world. however, it presupposes security in the labour market, since it implies change and restructuring. people in a changing labour market must feel secure, 'safe in the face of change' - i know the finnish presidency calls it 'flexicurity' rather than 'flexicurity', but it is the same thing. if you are safe, you are also part of the work of change and development in europe. we can then develop social systems into a productive factor in the process of change.
thank you so much for the answer, which i thought was good. nor do i see any contradiction between competition policy and employment policy. i just think that perhaps more emphasis should be placed on employment policy in the future. it is important that we have a strong industrial policy in europe in order to preserve employment opportunities. however, in the light of demographic trends, it is also important that employment opportunities in the sector are of high quality and that we invest in skills development, among other things, so that young people seek employment in the industrial sector. in view of the competition, recruiting new labour should not be difficult. the solution of this problem is a very important task in view of demographic developments.
mr president, this spring i went with a group of european journalists to follow the seal hunt. our car was run off the road, our helicopter was grounded and we were forced to remain in our hotel by an angry mob. despite all this we managed to witness the cruel hunting of very young seal pups which left many suffering on the ice. climate change and the receding ice threaten their survival because they need ice cover for their nursing. europe is the main market for seal products. i thank with all my heart all the colleagues who signed this resolution. the last time the eu made a reduction in its market for seal products, in the 1980s, it led to a virtual closing-down of the hunt. this demand is an extension of the ban and will finally give eco-tourism the chance to replace mass slaughter. i urge the commission to propose legislation as quickly as possible in order to scale back next year's hunt, which will start in march. i thank all of you very much. (applause)
in writing. despite the good texts on the social economy, the negative aspects of this report, which appear to glorify growth, are sadly overlooked. the public propaganda campaigns to sell the message of the need for the proposed welfare reform and the demands for an expanded internal market in pursuit of unsustainable growth are untimely. there are references to the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe as a strengthening of social europe when this, on the contrary, meant further steps towards the neoliberal internal market and military rearmament. that's lying to the voters.
in writing. in this report the rapporteurs propose a number of measures to be taken to solve problems of employment and social policy. parts of these proposals may be laudable in themselves, but we of the junilist party strongly emphasize that we believe that the policy areas dealt with in the report should be entirely within the competence of the member states. i reject references to the constitution, comments on member states' tax systems, opinions on pension reforms and pointers on how member states should act to achieve greater prosperity. i share the view expressed in recital n that the member states should have competence in the financing and decision-making of services of general interest, but i was forced to vote against this recital because of the reference to the constitution. i have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the mental health of the population in each member state is a matter to be dealt with exclusively at national level. there is no need for the european parliament to have an opinion on the allocation of funds for mental health care and the measures to be taken in this area. the commission's proposal to set up a mental health coordination and monitoring group is just one of a number of cumbersome and costly proposals. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the junilists have made it clear on several occasions that we are opposed to the common fisheries policy. we believe that the eu's destructive and immoral fisheries agreements should be abolished. i am very critical of paragraph 22 of the report which stresses the importance of community support for the financing of technical aids on board fishing vessels. the report stresses, however, the value of greater flexibility, clearer legislation, simplified rules and the need for increased consultation of stakeholders. these objectives are positive. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is using the conflict between israel and lebanon as a pretext to strengthen its common foreign and security policy. we believe that the member states should act independently in their respective foreign policy relations and coordinate common positions and actions within the framework of existing international organisations. the un is the international organisation best placed to create a lasting solution to the conflict in the middle east. complex foreign policy issues require long-term global solutions rather than eu action, which is often driven by narrow national interests. the international community must do better at preventing conflict and strengthening the un's ability to intervene in time. we support the ongoing development of multifunctional peace-building efforts. this work shall be carried out within the framework of un cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the finnish presidency deserves credit and thanks for trying to keep the eu together on this difficult issue, but we are still a long way from having a truly common european foreign policy. if the eu is to have a long-term political influence in the region, we need a political strategy, a kind of democratic marshall plan for the whole region, which is in fact the most unfree region in the world. we must of course help to demilitarise and neutralise hezbollah. the key to this lies in damascus but above all in tehran. it's gonna take a lot of work from there. we must restart the peace process between israelis and palestinians, preferably in the form of a conference, as my colleagues have said. two democratic states side by side is the only way to bring peace and stability to the region. it must also be combined with a conscious, systematic and long-term commitment to all democratic forces throughout the region if we are to achieve results.
thank you, mr president, for your detailed reply. i am also very pleased that the response to these incidents has been so strong and swift. i think that many of us feel that the trend is going in the wrong direction. this deed is proof of that. when you cannot even have a debate on these issues without being violated in this way, the basic work we need is done. i wonder, therefore, whether the council has any possibility of taking the initiative to support the existing women's organizations. parliament recently adopted a report on women in conflict management. we talked about how we could take the next step in that area. so my follow-up question is that i think many people are concerned that things are going in the wrong direction.
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome this report on behalf of my group. it is important that the european parliament makes a statement before the important summit this weekend. the eu's relations with china have become increasingly comprehensive, not just in terms of trade policy. a more strategic approach to this relationship is therefore desirable. china is a growing economy and an increasingly important trading partner. we liberal democrats see trade as an important way for countries to get closer together, to increase contacts and exchanges. trade also leads in the long run to greater transparency, better regulation, less corruption and eventually, we believe, democracy. trade has also led to economic growth that has lifted millions of chinese out of poverty. then, of course, we can also discuss how that growth should be distributed. china has growing ambitions on the international stage. that is good, but it also means that the country must take on greater international responsibility and be a responsible partner. we believe that china can play an important role in relations with north korea, but we cannot accept that china uses its un veto to stop global intervention to end the genocide in darfur or to pressure iran to open its nuclear programme to international scrutiny. china, with its size, its history and its population, has enormous potential. at the same time, we must recognize that china is also a dictatorship. we cannot accept that thousands of people are put in prison because they have a different political opinion or because they are of a different religion, ethnicity. we cannot accept the censorship of the internet, and we are very concerned about the reports of organ trafficking coming from, for example, falun gong supporters from all over the world, most recently from a respected institute in canada, and we are also concerned about the threats to democracy in taiwan. we must never miss an opportunity to make clear to chinese politicians and businesses that we are opposed to these human rights violations. at the same time, we must also try constructively to help china to walk the long road to democracy. similarly, all of us politicians, businessmen and consumers must demand that chinese companies allow trade unions and fundamental rights and safeguards for those who work there. china is also a ticking environmental bomb. this represents a huge potential area for us in the eu to work together with china. commissioner ferrero-waldner spoke of the need for a strategic partnership with many concrete elements. we welcome this and hope that the european parliament can play a critical but also constructive role in this work.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, carmen fraga estévez, for a good and well-balanced report. we have an election movement in sweden. one of the issues is the lack of cod. the voters ask me: how can i eat fish ethically? i have just this week given them six pages of text on recommendations on this very subject. we need a label that is easy to follow, so that we can go home with a good conscience and eat good fish. those who buy organically labelled fish also want to know that the stock is not threatened. if you eat the last cod, and it's caught with very good gear, in the right way and under the right conditions, it's still the last cod. it's not environmentally sustainable. i therefore think that amendment no 2 is important in emphasizing that endangered species cannot be fished organically because they are endangered. i would like to stress two points in the carmen fraga estévez report. independent verification, as mentioned in paragraph 6, is very important for credibility. in addition, it is very important that we somehow facilitate clear labelling for small-scale fishing. it could be the competitive advantage of small-scale fishing. we must therefore ensure that it can be exploited and leads to a fair competitive situation for small-scale fisheries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fight against terrorism has intensified. after what has happened, it is of course necessary, but we must do it without damaging basic democratic ideas and values. it is important to have rigorous security procedures, but crossing the line and losing the balance between counter-terrorism and fundamental rights is not in the long term in the best interests of any of us. following the decision of the court of justice of the european communities in may to annul the pnr agreement, we will now have a new agreement with the same content, unfortunately without the involvement of parliament, which means that citizens cannot influence matters concerning the monitoring of them or the systematic mapping of their behaviour. the new agreement should better protect the freedoms of the individual. the us authorities should make a request on a case-by-case basis under the push system. the legal protection of european citizens is inferior to that of us citizens. i therefore call on mr franco frattini to try to find political innovation in the necessary crossborder dialogue. otherwise we shall never get anywhere on this point. the eu and the us can come closer together. the debate between the parliamentary groups, the interparliamentary dialogue between our delegation for relations with the united states and their delegation has shown this before. let the dialogue gradually contribute to a quality increase, also in terms of content. parliamentary participation in this process is important. in closing, i would like to congratulate sophia in 't veld on a clear and unambiguous message. she's said what needs to be said. i really support her call for the member states to stick together and not to conclude bilateral agreements. europe must speak with one voice.
in writing. we think it is good that the european parliament is stepping up its efforts in the field of human rights in china. however, we are missing the bilateral efforts and the sections on trade which should be the focal points of the report. as china is the eu's second largest trading partner, it is important that these contacts work well.
in writing. the european union considers china to be a very important trading partner. the eu and china have enjoyed a close trade relationship over the past decade. the report is seen as a step towards improving china's ecological and social situation. the junilista believes that the need for improvement in these areas is a prerequisite for a long and sustainable trade cooperation. i therefore vote in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. we have today voted in favour of the report on the opening of a debate on a community model for eco-labelling programmes for fishery products. we are in favour of the eu establishing common minimum rules for the eco-labelling of fishery products and ensuring that these comply with current international standards. however, in direct contradiction to the report, we believe that it is good that there are different private labels and that all the environmental labelling of fishery products should be done by private operators. nor do we share the rapporteur's conviction that the common fisheries policy provides the most environmentally friendly fisheries. on the contrary, we are convinced that the common fisheries policy is a major cause of overfishing and environmental problems.
in writing. measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are positive. i question, however, the need for the eu to centrally introduce an eco-labelling programme for fishery products. the introduction of a common eu ecolabel risks creating unnecessary red tape and may limit the possibilities for companies, fisheries organisations and member states to develop their own ecolabel. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. the junilist deeply regrets the current situation in lebanon. in war, it is always the defenseless and the innocent who pay the highest price. the conflict in lebanon is a textbook example of violence begetting violence, and we strongly condemn all acts of violence on both sides. the report as a whole contains many good proposals and ideas, but we believe that the un should be the highest authority in this area. the report also touches on a sensitive foreign policy issue on which the governments of the member states are divided. we believe that it is up to the governments of each member state to take a position on this matter. we believe that the whole issue is a matter for the un and not for the eu. the june list therefore abstains.
in writing. we have voted against the joint resolution on forest fires today. we deplore the many and widespread forest fires and floods that have struck europe. we believe that in certain cases the eu should provide financial support to affected countries and regions when extreme natural disasters occur. however, the aid must not lead to forest fires being able to generate economic benefits. we do not believe that the annual occurrence of fires and floods in the same regions justifies common instruments to combat them and common financing to compensate those affected. on the contrary, we believe that the most important work to combat these fires and their causes should be done, initiated and financed locally and nationally.
in writing. the junilist welcomes international solidarity when a country is affected by forest fires or floods. we regret, however, that the eu institutions are trying to use this kind of tragic events to strengthen the union's influence in various policy areas. it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to take measures to reduce the likelihood of, for example, fires. coordination of resources and joint actions may be carried out outside eu cooperation. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. the junilista group considers that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the member states, the regions and the municipalities can and should manage the protection of the natural, built and cultural heritage. we are firmly opposed to the artificial creation of a common european cultural heritage at eu level. the idea of creating a legal framework at eu level to protect rural cultural heritage is not realistic. this will be handled at member state level. as always, the european parliament's committee on culture is very imaginative in its reports. the draft report, in paragraph 21, proposes a system of measures to assist small traditional communities similar to the system of cultural capitals. this would impose new costs on the eu budget. the proposal for a report, in paragraph 24, proposes that the establishment of a european year of cultural heritage be promoted. the european parliament often proposes the implementation of different thematic years, but it would be impossible in practice to implement them all. i am voting against the report as a whole.
for the gue/ngl group. air pollution is a major public health problem in the european union. the commission's own estimates show that up to 370 000 premature deaths per year are caused by emissions into the air. the main source of these premature deaths is the emission of particles. to this must be added all the health problems of asthmatics, allergy sufferers, and others who are hypersensitive. a particularly vulnerable group among them are children. air pollution also causes major environmental problems in the form of over-fertilization, acidification and ground-level ozone. health and environmental considerations make it clear that these emissions should be vigorously limited. so do the socioeconomic calculations. it would be a significant gain for society to avoid these costs of emissions. the commission's proposals for both a thematic strategy and a directive on better air quality are therefore a disappointment. the ambitions are very low. once again, we have received a sad confirmation that an ambitious environmental policy is not a priority for this european commission. unfortunately, the draft reports drawn up by the committee on the environment are also inadequate compromises. the decisions proposed there are simply not good enough to really address the problems. that is why we in the united left group have tabled a number of amendments to tighten up the proposals for directives. these various proposals serve several purposes. firstly, we want to remove the very generous possibility of derogations for member states which means that we have to wait an unnecessary number of years to see the directive put into practice. as regards the exposure target, we believe that it must be binding and we believe that it can be raised to 25%. as for the concentration limit for particulate matter, we want to bring it down to 10 micrograms, which would bring it to the level recommended by the world health organization (who) for industrialized countries. we also believe that the same requirements for low levels of pollution should be imposed everywhere regardless of the natural sources of emissions, otherwise different good environments are required for different people depending on where they happen to live. this is our position. mr president, i would like to thank you. i'd like to use the last half-minute to thank you for me. tomorrow i will be resigning as a member of the european parliament, so this is my last speech in the house. i want to thank the colleagues i've worked with for these 11 years. it's been a pleasure working here. i would also like to thank the services of this parliament and, above all, i would like to thank the interpreters very much. thank you! (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. not only the debate, but also the very governance and atmosphere around qualifications in europe is a great challenge to create a space that has a more european content. this means rules and standards that recognise a certain quality and therefore also mobility for citizens. i would like to highlight a few lines that are very important in the whole agenda. one is to create an area that not only means the availability and quality of basic education, academic education and vocational training, but also an area for further education, continuous or lifelong, for the recognition of non-formal and informal learning. the european qualifications framework is moving in this direction. secondly, it is a contribution that builds on what we have already done: the europass adopted in this parliament helps to make qualifications transparent, but the qualifications framework will help to make qualifications compatible and comparable, and thus also to make their transfer possible. this is a very important shift. if we can get final approval, it will be a good framework for employers, for employees, for providers of education and training, because it opens up this space and at the same time it will push for quality. openness means pressure on the quality of education and training provided. mrs. jensen mentioned 32 states. i think that their number will gradually increase if we succeed in developing this process in copenhagen, together with the bologna process, as a credible process, full of quality and guaranteeing quality parameters. i am convinced that this will be to the benefit of the union as a whole, its citizens and its institutions. i believe that this will help to ensure that the plumber, whether polish or any other, is not a threat but a very important contribution to mobility, competitiveness and a common europe. we're going to continue to work on this qualification framework.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, services of general interest are at the very heart of our european model of society. they cover a wide range of activities, from large network industries energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services to social and health services, water and waste management. the so-called network services, such as transport, energy, telecommunications and postal services, account for about 7% of our collective gross domestic product, 5% of total employment in the european union. they are therefore an essential part of the daily lives of all citizens, but also of businesses in the union. the success of the european strategy for growth and jobs, the lisbon strategy, which is crucial for our prosperity, also depends on the quality and efficiency of these services. since the commission published its white paper on services of general interest, there has been an intense debate on the possible role of the european union in relation to these services. it is a debate i look forward to. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rapkay, and his colleagues in the committees who, with this excellent report, have brought this debate forward. the reality of services of general interest is complex. it is also constantly evolving. technical progress, new societal and consumer expectations, financial pressures, modernisation of public administrations - all these have profoundly transformed the way these services are provided. in times of rapid economic and technological change, services of general interest require a useful and effective legal framework, one that enables service providers to achieve their objectives and to continuously adapt to a changing environment. the commission is prepared to cooperate in the creation of such a legal framework on the basis of four essential principles. first principle: the framework for services of general interest provided at national, regional and local level remains the responsibility of the member states, which allows us to respect the important principle of subsidiarity. there is simply no other option. i am firmly convinced that the european union must respect the diversity of situations and practices which exist in the member states. this diversity reflects different histories and cultures in terms of state intervention. i agree with the view expressed in your report that it is not at all appropriate to adopt uniform definitions at community level. member states must remain free to define their services of general interest according to their needs, structures and traditions, which are varied. second principle: the promotion and respect of services of general interest characterised by universal access and a good price/quality ratio are compatible with open and competitive markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels. it should be clarified, however, that in the event of an insoluble conflict between the internal market or competition rules and a general interest mission, the general interest mission must take precedence. this is what the treaty provides for and has been confirmed by the court. the commission is prepared to provide any advice or clarification which may be necessary in this respect. third principle: any framework applicable to services of general interest at the level of the european union must be open to differences and favourable to modernisation. it must be based on the objectives of high quality, good value for money and universal access. the aim is to meet the expectations of citizens and businesses, but also to ensure social and territorial cohesion. fourth principle: as i have said, legal certainty is essential, both for consumers and traders and for public authorities. it is the responsibility of public authorities at all levels to specify the rules applicable to services of general interest. at european level, given the diversity of situations and sectors, it remains to be determined whether this can best be achieved through a single legislative text or through specific sectoral actions. i noted that question in your report. the four principles i have just outlined serve as a guide for action at community level. this action is essentially pragmatic. we are developing sectoral policies at eu level in areas where there is a clear need for them and where they can bring real added value. problems of a more horizontal nature are addressed as they arise. the commission has been very active in this area with your assembly and with the council and i think i can say that we have made good progress in several areas. we have simplified and clarified the state aid rules applicable to services of general interest through the altmark package. we are currently monitoring the application of the new rules on public procurement which came into effect in january. we have undertaken extensive consultations on the issue of public-private partnerships and announced new initiatives for 2007. we have reached an agreement on public transport services. we have adopted a communication on social services and are now starting a consultation on health services. we have launched a wide consultation on the energy sector and we will be putting forward other proposals, including - and i stress this - legislative proposals, not just communications. in fact, we are currently reviewing the regulatory framework for electronic communications and will be proposing a new directive on postal services by the end of the year. these recent developments show that the european union is taking the initiative and is showing ambition in the area of services of general interest. they also illustrate the important role played by the parliament and the council. following the adoption of the rapkay report, which we will analyse carefully, the commission is determined to go further. we will be presenting a communication on this subject by the end of the year. ladies and gentlemen, the main message i have taken from your report is a twofold call for action, on the one hand, for greater legal certainty as regards the union's rules applicable to services of general interest and, on the other hand, for respect for the great diversity of sectors and situations throughout europe. i believe that the time has come for us to consolidate the regulatory framework for services of general interest in the european union. this is what our fellow citizens expect. the commission will take your report fully into account when it considers this matter by the end of the year.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, it is important to state one thing in this debate: there is no better way to ensure high quality, accessibility and low prices than a broad range of competition and entrepreneurship in the european economy. we have all seen the results and achievements in a number of sectors that 10 or 20 years ago were looked upon as monopolies on typical services of general interest. we have seen achievements in telecom and airlines and we will see achievements in new areas, because we are talking about services that are by nature dynamic and convergent. they are a huge and important part of the future knowledge economy. we have to open up and, at the same time, respect the specific solutions each member state needs for what it defines as services of general interest. i should like to underline in this debate that there is no call in the report for a framework directive or a horizontal framework of any kind, but there is an emphasis on legal clarity based on a sectoral approach and a call for sector-specific directives where they are needed. mr barroso, you mentioned healthcare. we can look back and see how the sector-specific approach has been quite successful in recent years. so we are calling for legal clarity, based upon the sector-specific approach, and we look forward to seeing future sectoral directives. we underline that there is no legal basis in the treaties for a proposal that would interfere with the internal market, competition rules or public procurement. we stress that this is an area in which there must be respect for member states and for the principle of subsidiarity. in the coming decades, we will see opportunities arising for more and more cross-border activities in new areas. i believe that there will be fantastic opportunities for patients to get better healthcare in different countries and that could also create vitality for the european economy. but we agree on the need to respect the internal market, at the same time as we respect subsidiarity. i hope, mr barroso, that you will read this report and see the need to go further on sector-specific directives and the sector-specific approach, in order to create the legal clarity that also respects the principle of subsidiarity.
for the pse group. i shall not prolong the debate too much. i would first of all like to thank karin jöns, who has worked on the progress programme. she's done it in a very good way. her work has enabled us to reach a solution quickly and, unlike last time, to get it started very quickly. progress is an important programme, a coherent programme for employment, social affairs and gender equality and against discrimination. we have supported the concept of a joint programme. one of the solutions was that we in the european parliament should work to ensure that more money is allocated to the programme in the longterm budget, because it is about the social europe we talk about so often. the agreement on more money for the progress programme also facilitated the agreement on the programme as a whole. there was some disagreement on the issues of gender equality and social inclusion, but those issues have now been resolved. these parts of the programme have received increased resources to increase gender equality, social inclusion and social protection. this has not been at the expense of other parts, but instead funds have been taken from the reserve. i think this has become a very good solution and i believe that progress will play a role in the construction of the future social europe. i would like to thank karin jöns again for a very good job!
in writing. the rapporteur's report addresses the important role played by the media in the development of a country. freedom of expression and of the press are essential in a democracy, but good access to the media for all sections of society is also necessary for the proper functioning of a society. however, there are certain elements of the report which we strongly oppose. we are of course firm in our position that aid should not be provided at community level. this is a matter for the member states. furthermore, the eu shall not conduct information campaigns in the member states. on the whole, however, we think the content is good. we have therefore voted in favour of the report in today's vote.
in writing. junilista has pointed out in the european parliament before, and does so again, that only the member states are responsible for the organisation of education and the content of education systems. the european parliament has previously expressed its wish to address issues such as language teaching and the adaptation of education systems to new technologies and digitalisation. the european dimension is now to be incorporated into the curricula. but how should the european dimension in europe's common history and cultural heritage be defined? and by whom or by whom? we must act in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. member states themselves must promote democracy and tolerance in europe in their curricula and to their citizens. this cannot be regulated at eu level. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the junilista group considers that the president should not be granted a discharge for the 2004 financial year, for two main reasons: firstly, we believe that the management of the european parliament bears as much responsibility as the city of strasbourg for having paid too high a rent for the premises in strasbourg for years. this has cost the eu taxpayer a lot of money and parliament should take the lead in this case in order to recover the exorbitant rent. as there is still no information on the amount of the excess payments (see the fifth indent of paragraph 19 of the draft report), we consider that the matter has not yet been settled. secondly, we believe that the european parliament as an institution should not be held responsible for the shortfall in the special pension scheme for members of the european parliament. members' pension rights must be linked to the investment performance of the pension fund. this is how it works for ordinary citizens of the eu and members of the european parliament should not have a special luxury in this respect.
in writing. today we have voted in favour of the report by mr markus ferber on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004. no criminal acts have been confirmed in connection with the rental of two of the buildings used by the european parliament in strasbourg. at the same time, it should be clear that the principle of 'sound financial management' as laid down in the financial regulation has not been fully respected. the purchase of the existing buildings is a good deal from a strictly economic point of view in the long term. nevertheless, we believe that in the present situation it would be desirable to postpone such a decision for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. one million eu citizens have signed up to the citizens' initiative to end the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg. we fully support the demand that the european parliament should have only one seat, that is, brussels. the report also deals with important issues such as members' contributions, secretarial contributions and the voluntary pension fund. we've decided to opt out of the pension fund. we believe it is unreasonable for the taxpayers of europe to be involved in the financing of a fund, regardless of whether the return is profitable or not.
in writing. there is every reason to criticize some of the actions of the european parliament. however, no criminal record has been established. the voluntary pension schemes for members of the european parliament are a supplementary pension insurance policy in addition to the ordinary members' pension. the scheme means that two thirds of all payments (currently eur 2 088 per month and member who opts for this insurance) are made by european taxpayers. the remaining one third has so far been paid by the secretarial fees of members, despite the fact that the court of auditors already in 1999 commented on this construction and considered that the payments should be made in a completely private manner, to avoid accusations that 'public funds are used for private pension payments'. this may seem strange in itself, given that the system is designed so that two thirds of all payments are made from the eu budget. i think the whole system should be dismantled as soon as possible. i also voted in favour of the amendments which seek to prevent parliament from buying the parliament building in strasbourg. in the short term, a purchase will bring financial savings, but the ambition must be that a purchase in such a case be financed by a sale of the parliament building in brussels. the most important thing is that the seat of the eu is limited to one place.
in writing. junilista is a strong supporter of increased mobility in europe, not least in the education sector. but you can always ask yourself when bureaucracy takes over a good cause. we vote for the compromise, but we object to amendment no 47. it adds that 'the charter, which is a basic reference document, should be distributed in the respective languages to all students and persons undergoing training by the authorities, organisations and other actors concerned by mobility in the home and host countries'. we believe that it is up to the individual member states to implement what they have committed themselves to do.
in writing. the rapporteur's report deals with the commission's thematic strategy on air pollution. the junilists believe that transnational environmental problems are a matter to be dealt with at community level. air pollution is one example of such a problem. paragraph 25 calls on the european parliament, the commission and the council to conclude an interinstitutional agreement setting out their positions on the air quality objectives. the junilists also want better legislation, of course, but we think it is difficult for the legislative and executive branches to agree in advance on the rules that will apply in the future. that is why we voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, even though there are negative points such as per capita green space and how to reduce music from city apartments, which are clearly local issues that should be decided at local level. but the positive aspects such as congestion charges, reduced car traffic and local sustainability plans are being considered and the bourgeois government may certainly need a push from the eu on these issues. however, the content should retain its character of recommendation and not lead to extensive legislation.
the junist party's representatives in the european parliament voted against the proposal to open membership negotiations with turkey. our refusal was not motivated by the fact that turkey is outside europe, nor by the fact that turkey is a muslim country. we pointed out that turkey still has a long way to go to meet the requirements we are setting for eu membership. and we expressed our concern that the opening of negotiations would reduce the pressure on turkey to establish a democratic state of law with full human rights for women, for kurds, for christians, for trade union movements, for writers. and that's what happened. the previously promising trend has been broken and in some respects replaced by a decline. we have found ourselves in the undignified situation of the european union beginning to demand the form of the electoral system and the drafting of a new constitution in the sovereign state of turkey. this is not the eu's job. it is up to turkey to choose how it wants to live up to the eu's demands, it is up to turkey to choose its own solutions. pending sufficient reforms, membership negotiations should be opened.
i would like to thank mr camiel eurlings for his report. we in the swedish social democratic group are in favour of turkish membership when the criteria we had for all the others are met. we should not make any higher demands or give turkey special treatment, as some here have said. at the moment, the eu is the guarantor of development in turkey, with encouragement but also demands on human rights, among other things. a former member of the european parliament, now a social democrat member of the swedish parliament, has written to the turkish ambassador about the fact that 1 200 children's books by swedish children's authors, used by swedish schools and financed by sida and the olof palme centre, have been stopped at turkish customs. this is incomprehensible to me and i have therefore put a question to the council on this. i support the democratization of turkey and we must solve problems like this. i share the critical views expressed by the other speakers from the socialist group on the report. let us encourage progress and solve the problems, but let us be firm that we in the eu want to see turkey as a member when the time is right and the democratic deficit is over.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr agustín díaz, for his work on this subject, which is perhaps not so exciting, but is certainly so important. díaz has produced a good report, and i would like to emphasize this, since i myself was rapporteur on this issue when it was on the agenda during the last parliamentary term. then there was a slight difference of opinion, not least as to which denominations would be counterfeited. so it has been shown in retrospect that the ppe-de group's line was the right one. many people thought that the 500 euro note would be the most vulnerable to counterfeiting, but we in the ppe-de group considered that the smaller denominations, such as the 20 and 50 euro notes, were at greater risk. agustín diaz is pleased to see the idea of close monitoring being followed also in countries which have not yet adopted the euro as their currency. the risks of counterfeiting are usually greater there, as the public is not prepared in the same way as in the euro area countries. people in these countries have a harder time distinguishing between genuine and counterfeit notes and are often less suspicious. fortunately, the problem of counterfeiting has become much less serious than feared, perhaps thanks to the pericles programme and, not least, to the extent to which it has been implemented. here is another example of a good thing the eu has done. it is an area where we do not have so much conflict anymore, but there is every reason to inform citizens about this programme that protects us all in our daily lives.
in the long run, we cannot survive without a common immigration policy and common strategies. the member states have the primary responsibility for integration. the current exclusion and benefits in lieu of work must be reversed and integration policies activated. work must be the rule and subsidies the exception. in sweden, the new government is to make the unemployed more attractive on the labour market. integration policy must also be combined with measures to combat trafficking in human beings and the development of partnership agreements with neighbouring countries. i would like to commend franco frattini for his efforts in this area. together we must also defend the human values on which the eu is founded. an area of freedom, justice and security requires enhanced legal certainty and strengthened individual fundamental rights which the court of justice can and must apply. although we lack this and the protection of data in the third pillar, we have acquired measures that go far into the private sphere. how far does the council think it can go further without fundamental rights and an appeal court at eu level? the rule of law and fundamental rights should now be the focus. it would help to make law enforcement more effective in the long run. law enforcement and law enforcement go hand in hand.
the debate we are having now is a high priority among the citizens of the eu. the urgent problems should have been solved long ago, as several speakers have said. it is about the flows of refugees to the canary islands and malta, a message to all those waiting to stay in the eu and better support for those struggling to be accepted as new citizens of the eu. we should have gone further in influencing attitudes in our communities and countering segregation in employment, housing and schooling. in sweden, we had an election two weeks ago, and a xenophobic party got seats in the council in every third municipality. i'm concerned about their message that too many immigrants have been allowed to come. they talk about it, but not about our responsibility and solidarity. the eu's population is ageing rapidly and we will need to grow. we have to get through this debate. we in parliament must be given more powers, access to faster decision-making and greater responsibility. only a common eu policy in this area can bring results for the citizens of the eu.
mr president, in paragraph 29, there is a mistake in the dutch version. i am not an expert on the dutch language – but i will improve! as far as i know, the phrase geschikt rechtskader is not an appropriate translation of what is written in the english version, i.e. ‘appropriate legal initiatives’. i think my dutch friends will agree with me and maybe also give me a grade a in the dutch language! i would like to underline that it is the english version that is the authentic text in this case.
in writing. the report is clearly a further step towards the total harmonisation of the criminal justice systems of the member states. as always, proposals of this kind involve a lengthy and very complicated compromise between the countries. junilista is always a strong supporter of the right of member states to self-determination in criminal matters and we are very concerned about the rule of law. the report gives, inter alia, private operators the right to access, under certain conditions, highly sensitive personal data, which, in the opinion of junilistan, cannot be considered as providing sufficient legal certainty. the amendment of parliament does contain some guarantees for the legal certainty of individuals, but the proposal as a whole represents a major step towards supranational control of the core of the right to self-determination of the rule of law, namely criminal law.
in writing. i abstain from voting on this report because i believe that the eu should devote equal resources to protecting the swedish krona and other eu currencies and not unilaterally protect the euro. the fight against counterfeiting is of course a positive thing in itself, especially when it is based on cooperation and conferences and not increased police surveillance.
in writing. the junilista group considers that the legal certainty of individuals is a very important issue on which no compromise can be made. the criminal law is at the heart of a country's sovereignty and right to self-determination. there is no doubt that there are today widely different legal cultures within the eu, and the same applies to the view on the rule of law and the impartiality of the judiciary. the proposal risks undermining the hague convention on the international effects of criminal tribunals. the convention was signed in 1972 and has worked well. the junilista group considers that the parliament's amendment is more thoughtful, but that the proposal as a whole is another step towards a supranational union. we therefore vote against the proposal on grounds of principle.
in writing. today we voted on an amending budget which concerns the revenue side of the eu budget. the amending budget covers, inter alia, the technical conversion of the contributions necessary to finance the uk rebate. we consider it unreasonable and outdated that a member state has been granted such a favourable special status and would like to underline the importance of the review of the eu budget planned for 2008/09. it is of the utmost importance that this review addresses the uk rebate as well as the cap.
in writing. we have voted against this report because it rejects the council of ministers' proposal for amending budget no 3. unlike the majority of the committee on budgets, we believe that the council of ministers can very well reallocate expenditure between the various eu institutions during the implementation of the budget if it deems it appropriate.
in writing. the developments in turkey are very worrying in a number of areas. several cases of journalists and writers being arrested and charged with committing crimes against "turkishness" have been brought to attention. while the developments are of course very worrying, we must not forget the democratic and reformist forces in the country. it is now our task, the eu's task, to continue to help and support these forces to put turkey back on the right track. in the report, carmiel eurlings makes a justified criticism of turkey. he also criticised the way turkey was treated in comparison with other candidate countries. this is not acceptable. it is important that turkey reconciles with its history, and with armenia. but it should not be the decision whether or not to continue negotiations with turkey. it is important that the eu now feels its responsibility and does not play into the hands of fundamentalists and backward thinkers without our voting through a balanced report. we have therefore voted in favour of paragraph 50 and the amendments which advocate a constructive attitude towards turkey.
in writing. the report reviews the progress made by turkey so far towards future eu accession. only one chapter, 'science and research', has been opened and provisionally closed. consequently, there is still a long way to go. the junilists do not see turkey's geographical position or its religion as an obstacle to possible eu membership. we believe that the same requirements should be imposed for accession as in previous enlargements - no more, no less. turkey does not meet the copenhagen criteria and therefore eu membership is not currently an option. however, it is not only turkey that needs to adapt. the eu's agricultural policy and structural funds need to be reformed. a possible future treaty is another issue that must be negotiated before further enlargements of the eu can be implemented, mainly in view of the voting power of the member states and to avoid a few large member states having the opportunity to dominate the whole union. both turkey and the eu have a very long political and economic road ahead of them before membership can be considered, but if and when that day comes, junilistan considers turkey to be welcome. that is why we have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. turkey has a very long way to go before eu membership can become a reality. i have previously voted against opening accession negotiations with turkey because it will take a very long time before the requirements for eu membership are met. it is not possible to maintain a negotiating process over a period of 20 years. the pressure to ease membership requirements risks becoming unmanageable. it is important to make clear demands on turkey. the copenhagen criteria for human rights must be met. the sovereignty of cyprus must be respected. the genocide of armenians and syrians/assyrians in 1915 must be recognized. before turkey can become a member of the eu, a change in the voting power of the member states must take place, lest a few populous member states come to dominate eu decision-making. the financial implications of a possible turkish membership of the eu must be carefully examined. the eu's common agricultural policy and regional policy must be reformed before turkey can become a member of the eu. the eu budget should be limited to 1% of the total gnp of the member states. any turkish membership must not exceed this ceiling. it is important to note that the opening of negotiations with turkey does not automatically mean that turkey will become a member of the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one of the basic truths of our society is gender inequality. this gender power structure is present in every aspect of our society and it hampers growth and every kind of sustainability. of the people living in poverty in the world, almost three out of four are women, so equal opportunities for women and men is not just an issue of human rights or some sort of luxury. when every other problem is solved it is crucial for our common future. this report by my colleague mrs breyer, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, is a very good starting point for the urgent work ahead in the specific area of trade relations in the world. as she points out, women in general experience more difficulties in gaining access to education, property, credit, other resources and factors of production, as well as political decision-making bodies, and these inequalities restrict women’s ability to use the advantages of trade liberalisation. for instance, a large number of women throughout the world are denied opportunities to improve their economic and social conditions and, at the same time, many of them have the added responsibility of caring for children and the household. a majority of the farmers in the world are women! a structural change in the eu’s common agricultural policy is an important strengthening of these women in third world countries. however, gender inequality is not just something that exists in poor countries: the representation of women in politics and business is also very low in the member states of the union. in order to raise the discussion of quotas to a new level, we must consider that this instrument can be used in a number of different ways. as i see it, the quota instrument should be used only when every other way has been tested and proved unsuccessful. like the rapporteur, i welcome the norwegian government’s decision to impose by law a 40% quota for female representation on the boards of joint stock companies. but, basically, this report addresses a number of issues concerning the systematic and thoroughly unjust gender inequality affecting international trade relations. it includes a number of very precise suggestions, which i believe could really make a difference in a political world so much characterised by words and empty promises. it will make for good reading in the commission and in the council. finally, let me just say: praeterea censeo prostitutionem esse delendam.
for the gue/ngl group. a sincere thank you to mrs hiltrud breyer for an excellent report and for raising a very important issue on trade and how wto agreements, gats agreements and imf decisions affect people's living conditions and livelihoods. just as agreements often benefit developed countries and disadvantage developing countries, trade agreements benefit and disadvantage women and men in different ways. traditionally, world trade is the arena of men. the imf's board is 100 percent male, and the world bank's board is 91.7 percent male. trade and gender have a variety of interconnections that are necessary to study in order to understand how people in different places, people of different genders and different classes are affected by trade agreements. gender is relevant because gender relations affect the distribution and access to resources, labour, income and power. gender affects our behavior as economic actors. men and women react differently to economic change. economic institutions are not only male-dominated, but more importantly, they perpetuate and maintain the gender structures of the economy. men's and women's work is valued differently. women's work in the reproductive sphere is both invisible and untouched. these factors affect women and men differently, and so gender analysis is crucial to the design of trade policies that promote gender equality and break down patriarchal structures. the role of women in the economy must be made visible. the effectiveness of trade negotiations must take account of all conventions, such as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
i am very concerned about the report by mr pedro guerreiro on improving the economic situation of the fishing industry. the way in which the community's fishing fleet is operating will lead to an irreversible depletion of the world's oceans, all to protect an industry which is not competitive internationally. let me give you an example. the commission presented a proposal on fisheries in the baltic sea at the beginning of september. the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) reiterated its call for a total cessation of cod fishing in the eastern baltic sea, but the commission considers that a reduction of 15% is sufficient. this clearly shows that the eu does not put the environment first, but rather looks to the interests of industry. the latter, however, is a modified truth, since the fishing industry will die out when the seas are depleted. a global justice perspective should also be adopted when discussing eu fisheries policy. the rapporteur explicitly states that the eu's fishing fleet is forced to compete with the fishing fleets of third countries. the latter have much lower costs and their products are consequently cheaper. by introducing tax relief, which is definitely not a community matter, pedro guerreiro wants to distort the international market and thus deprive poor people of their only source of income. it's terrifying and at the same time very tragic. on the other hand, the eu is showing its true face here - a non-competitive economy that is prepared to do anything to protect its production, while excluding the world's poor.
for the verts/ale group. when you think of sole and redfish, they are a source of joy and very good fish, but future generations will not experience that joy unless we take our responsibility today. i think that the report by albert jan maat is generally good, but i am criticizing the same things as the commissioner. amendment no 8 to have a three-year quota means exactly what chris davies said. it cannot be adapted in time and is not appropriate. the same goes for cod. this is connected and therefore amendment no 14 cannot be accepted either. if the number of days at sea is to be limited for the reasons stated, then this must also apply to these vessels, no exceptions can be made here. as regards amendment no 15, which introduces a tolerance margin of 10% instead of 8%, i would point out that this is not complicated with modern computer technology. we can figure out 8 percent instead of 10 percent. the increased flexibility is detrimental to the stock. the same applies to amendment no 20. increased flexibility for member states to interpret when action needs to be taken is not working. when you try to increase flexibility, it actually leads to decreased flexibility. because if the fish are depleted, there's no flexibility left. there are zero fishing quotas, zero fishing days and 100 per cent unemployment among professional fishermen. nobody wants that, right?
for the ind/dem group. nanotechnology is certainly of great importance for the future of mankind. progress is rapid, and the technology will have a dramatic impact on virtually all fields. there is a deep-rooted belief in this house that all such important developments must be managed by the eu. all the reports argue that the organisation, legislation, supervision and financing must be the responsibility of the eu. all the reports stress the importance of the eu not falling behind the us, japan and china in the global arena. but we never see a convincing analysis of what it is that does not resolve itself in the market but requires public action. we never see any convincing analysis of the level at which such public measures should be taken. the starting point is always that the european parliament has perfect knowledge and can and should therefore instruct the commission and the member states to follow its instructions. the european parliament calls for, emphasises, underlines and reminds everyone of the nature of the world's problems and how they should be solved. the rapporteur, miloslav ransdorf, for example, wants parliament to state that nanotechnology should be geared towards the development of hydrogen energy. i would argue that the european parliament is certainly incompetent to decide such a question. nanotechnology develops most rapidly and efficiently when it is not controlled from the top by international bureaucrats. the international scientific community, companies and national institutions are best placed to experiment and compete in the field of nanotechnology. and it is private and governmental organisations in the nation states that are best placed to produce information material on nanotechnology, tailored to the values and knowledge of their own people. the eu's role in this context will be limited to establishing a patent monitoring system in the field, establishing ethical and environmental standards and possibly securing funding for very large-scale projects of the same type as fusion research.
nanotechnology has potential, but its real enemy is the one who wants to unleash it on the consumer market without regulation, without knowledge, without protection. we greens want knowledge first, then regulations to protect the environment and health and then marketing. that's the right order. nanoparticles do not have the same toxic properties as ordinary particles. carbon powder is harmless, but nanoparticles in the form of carbon clusters cause serious brain damage in fish within 48 hours even at concentrations of 0.5 ppm. nanotubes can destroy mitochondrial dna, and nanoparticles on the skin can migrate to the brain and lymph nodes and damage our bodies. our immune systems aren't designed to deal with nanoparticles. the eu's own research shows that non-biodegradable and non-biologically compatible nanoparticles can be life threatening and should be avoided at all inhalation and ingestion.
in writing. the junilists are, as we know, opposed to eu-led aid for a number of reasons. aid policy, like foreign policy, is a national concern and should not be delegated to brussels. we oppose most of the report, including the calls for increased budgets. the rapporteur also deals with other strictly national matters such as the control and monitoring of bilateral aid. it is also proposed that the commission should carry out strategic planning of member states' assistance. this is completely unacceptable.
in writing. the basic view of the junilists is that fisheries issues should be dealt with within existing international organisations. this means that the eu will not have to pursue a common fisheries policy or set fishing quotas. sustainable fishing is a prerequisite for the survival of the fishing industry. experience shows that the eu does not give priority to sustainable fishing. for example, the fishing quotas for cod in the baltic sea have been the subject of widespread criticism from, among others, the fao.
in writing. junilista understands that the same requirements must be imposed on organic products from third countries as on organic products from the eu. but the control systems must not be too costly and the subsidies that eu producers receive to produce their organic products must be taken into account. we are skeptical of the agriculture committee's supplementary proposal for stricter requirements for organic products from third countries and wonder whether there are hidden protectionist motives behind their amendment to the proposal for a regulation. we are therefore not prepared to support the committee on agriculture and have voted against their amendments and motions for resolutions.
in writing. the moderate delegation has voted against the ppe-de resolution because we are firmly opposed to the common minimum list of safe countries of origin referred to in the last sentence of paragraph 9. we also believe that this version of the resolution does not sufficiently emphasise that all measures to combat illegal immigration must be compatible with the guarantees and fundamental rights of the individual laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we are not totally against paragraph 4 (information requirements in the case of more generous rules), but we are hesitant because it could be a first step towards full sovereignty in the area of asylum and immigration.
in writing. the eu's common immigration policy is, in the junist's view, one of the main reasons for the tragic situation many migrants find themselves in when, in the hope of a better life, they embark on a literally life-threatening journey towards the eu. the resolution rightly emphasises that the dublin ii regulation is and has been a failure. the regulation has meant that the fate of migrants has been decided mainly by the countries of the southern and eastern part of the eu, without taking into account the immigration policies and needs of other member states. it is extremely strange and unacceptable that the eu has been working on a common migration policy for a decade. all these policy experiments have eroded the right of member states to self-determination in migration matters and caused great suffering to migrants. the solution to the current situation is not to give the eu more powers on immigration to continue its failed immigration policy, but to give the member states back their right of self-determination.
in writing. the junilists strongly support the completion of the internal market. this also means that the eu must have a common trade policy towards other states. however, it is not the eu's role to object to india's domestic affairs. the rapporteur notes, among other things, the indian bureaucracy, the structure of the public sector and the regional policy of the central government. junilists are committed to national self-determination and sovereignty, whether it concerns a member state or any other state in the world. that is why we have voted against the report. we also do not exclude the possibility that india may have views on eu trade and agricultural policy.
in writing. we have voted against the report on the future of women in international trade. free trade leads to increased prosperity and reduced poverty. in recent decades, globalization has led to dramatic improvements in the living standards of people, especially women and children. free trade creates more formal jobs and, contrary to what is claimed in the report, free trade also provides women with informal jobs with greater security and a way out of poverty. the report focuses on form rather than content. gender equality is important, not least in working life, where a salary is a strong contribution to women's independence and autonomy. more globalisation, not expanded eu institutions, is the right way to increase women's autonomy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the lahti summit next week will deal with the question of a common energy policy. this is yet another example of the political establishment's deliberate use of social issues to advance the eu's positions for purely power-political reasons. in fact, there is very little reason to pursue an energy policy at eu level. we are at a historic juncture where it is becoming increasingly clear that the emissions of greenhouse gases from the human combustion of coal and hydrocarbons are causing climate change. we must find solutions to this situation. however, no one in the eu leadership can decide which energy type we should choose to meet the needs of a sustainable energy supply in the future. in addition, the conditions vary widely from country to country. some countries have a vested interest in finding ways to capture and store carbon dioxide from burning coal and oil. some countries are prepared to become dependent on russian natural gas, while others want to invest in nuclear power, hydropower, wind and wave energy, biomass, geothermal energy. everyone can reduce their energy consumption in different ways. in this process, countries must be able to experiment and seek their way through different paths. it is through such institutional competition between countries that development progresses. the idea that the eu should determine how much of which energy types are to be used is a foolish idea that is dangerous for europe's future.
mr president, the murder of anna politkovskaya is a threefold tragedy. it is personal – a tragedy for her family – but it is also a tragedy for russian society, because it is a sign of an emerging development in that large country, and it is a tragedy for democracy, because it was a murder of an important democratic element in russia. it was a step down the ladder which is weakening democracy in that country. it was said earlier here today that we should be realistic about democracy in russia. i do not know what the speaker really meant, but let us indeed be realistic about democracy in russia: if we do not stand up for democracy in russia, we will leave people like anna politkovskaya and thousands of others on their own. if we do not stand up for democracy and the rule of law in russia, we will not strengthen the forces in russia that can make russia a better country and a better partner. not standing up for democracy will not make russia a better partner in energy policy or in any other area. (applause)not calling for democracy and the rule of law does not make russia a better society. russia will be a credible energy partner only when democracy is stronger and when the rule of law is stabilised. that is what it means to be realistic about democracy in russia, and let that be stated here today. mr barroso, some of the competences we have in the european union – the internal market for energy policy, the trans-european networks, competition rules and trade policy – are the instruments that we must use with relation not only to russia but also to other parts of the world. they are the best basis for the future energy policy of the european union. let us use them and let us go forward step by step.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the imposition of duties on shoes from vietnam and china is a magnificent self-interest on the part of the eu. it's bad economic policy, it's bad trade policy, and it's moral bankruptcy. first, let me explain why it's bad economic policy. what we are doing at the moment is protecting and defending the industry which is not competitive, while punishing the industry which has adapted to globalisation, for example by moving its production to countries which are more competitive. in this way we succeed in weakening the eu's competitiveness twice with the same decision. i fear that the commission's vision for the future is that the eu will compete globally with cheap shoes. i think the worst thing that could happen is that the commission succeeds and we preserve this industry. if that is the case, then in 30 years' time we can expect europe to export shoes to vietnam, while vietnam exports cars, or something even more valuable that we cannot even imagine, to europe. secondly, it is bad trade policy. at the end of this month, vietnam will become a member of the wto. the eu's welcome gift is tariffs on vietnamese shoes. the signals we are sending to vietnam, from one of the world's largest trading blocs, are a disaster, not least as the country undergoes major changes to meet the requirements for a future wto membership. third, it is morally bankrupt. this is because it is hard on individuals to satisfy small well-organized special interests. you are not content to extend the shoe-leather, but now you are extending it to include children's shoes. what do you say to swedish families with small children who may have to buy several pairs of children's shoes a year? do you think families with children have too much money? have they gotten away with the earlier measures? this is an example of when the eu shows its worst side, namely when well-organised special interests are allowed to take precedence over the good of the citizens. i think we should avoid that in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you recently said that the historical dimension of the european union's seat in strasbourg cannot be understood in the same way in some of the nordic countries which did not take part in the second world war. nordic citizens did not suffer enough during the second world war to understand the symbolic value of the european parliament in strasbourg. the european parliament has also been asked to make a statement on the situation in the baltic sea. your statement was, of course, historically completely wrong - finland, norway and denmark were involved in world war ii - but it is also remarkable in another respect. the president of the european parliament is therefore quite serious about not listening to the views of citizens and members of the european parliament on the floor of the european parliament if they come from countries that did not participate in the second world war. it is a grotesque idea, whose only conciliatory feature is that we do not have to listen to you, mr president, because spain was not involved in the second world war either. the thinking is unreasonable. today's irish, portuguese, spanish and swedish people have the same right to be heard in the current debate as other nationalities. it is scandalous that the person who has been entrusted with the presidency of the european parliament has such poor judgment that he thinks he has the right to tell us whom we should listen to and whom we should try to silence. (the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and commissioner! every day, millions of animals suffer in the meat industry's animal factories, during animal transport, in painful animal experiments and at slaughterhouses across europe. now we have a chance to actually improve the conditions for these animals. i'm speaking on behalf of the environmental committee. it was my predecessor, jonas sjöstedt, who was in charge of our case. in our opinion we call for the right of animals to a natural behaviour, the prevention of overproduction of meat, the right of all chickens to be released by 2016, the right of sows to move freely throughout their life cycle and the introduction of an eight-hour limit for animal transport. it is therefore with regret that i have to say that mr jeggles' report does not meet any of these requirements. it is therefore important that we have as much influence on this report as possible. the gue/ngl group has asked for a separate vote on the points which we consider to be relativising the value of animals in relation to trade. if mr jeggle's report is adopted, animal welfare will only be worth pursuing if it does not run counter to wto and commercial interests. that's what it says, but we can't have that! animals have values regardless of changes in competitiveness. the important thing is that we in europe take the initiative and become competitive through higher standards and better animal welfare. therefore, reject the wording of recital g and paragraphs 51, 52, 53 and 59. i also urge you to vote in favour of amendments nos 11 and 12, which are now also supported by jeggle, which is good. if you vote in favour, we can finally have an action plan that will make life much better for the hundreds of millions of animals living in the eu. the animals deserve it!
mr president, i would like to thank you. a civilized society can never compete on the lowest price with animals raised in conditions akin to torture. only with high animal welfare standards will animal husbandry in the eu survive. local production, short transport times and consumer safety with natural breeding - that's where the future lies. we have an agricultural policy that tortures broilers, forces animals on long journeys, gives more medicines to animals than to people and castrates pigs. such an agricultural policy should be castrated rather than the pigs! a maximum of eight hours of transport is a reasonable requirement. minimum standards for animal welfare - amendment no 11 - are needed. we've quadrupled our wealth in the last 40 years. if we cannot afford to sacrifice even a percentage of this wealth to protect defenceless animals, we cannot call ourselves civilized. to my spanish friends, i would like to say this: a noble fight would be an unarmed matador against an unarmed bull that is untreated, not getting its back broken, not drugged and not being tortured. it would be a noble fight! however, as things stand, this is animal cruelty, which should not be supported by financial means.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for what has been, overall, a very interesting and supportive debate. i shall inform my colleague, mr kyprianou, of your comments. i should like to touch upon just a couple of your comments. mr holm emphasised trade issues and suggested that competition is incompatible with animal welfare; i disagree. it will be very difficult for eu producers to compete in the global market on the basis of price alone. this is clear if you look at the competitive advantage of certain third countries in terms of lower land, labour or infrastructure costs. instead, i think high animal welfare standards should be promoted as one of our competitive advantages. we should also remember that, as mr tarabella said, there needs to be real choice for consumers. recent surveys and research projects have demonstrated consumers’ active interest in the welfare of farm animals. it is clear that consumers believe that they can improve animal welfare through their purchasing power and that a large proportion would be prepared to pay a premium price for such products. ms resetarits also emphasised this point. the commission thinks that labelling will eventually make these products more competitive, to the benefit of the industry, and in particular to those who produce in a welfare-friendly manner. we believe that europe’s high animal welfare standards need to be seen as a marketing opportunity and a competitive advantage, rather than as a burden or liability. the policy of using vaccination to prevent the spread of animal diseases has been carefully considered by the commission and is now integrated into the specific community legislation on foot-and-mouth disease prevention. the same principles are today in the avian influenza measures just adopted. i have to remind mrs ayuso gonzález that the treaty does not allow the community to act in respect of the use of animals in cultural and traditional events, such as bullfighting. therefore, the action plan does not foresee any measures in this regard.
good animal welfare is a necessity in a modern society. there are wide differences in animal welfare between eu member states. it may therefore be appropriate to have some common rules, for example on the transport of animals. junilista sees the eu as a union of values, in which animal ethics is also an important part. however, we are questioning and opposed to an animal welfare authority under the auspices of the eu. the existing structures in the eu member states should be adequate. if there is community legislation, member states are obliged to apply it. in the absence of such a system, the commission and, ultimately, the court of justice will take action against the state or states which do not comply with the legislation. as is so often the case, the balance between decision-making at eu level and at national, regional and local level is very difficult. however, there are certain values that must be protected at all costs, such as human rights and a basic animal welfare. this should preferably be done at international level.
in writing. in view of the stalled process of creating a constitution for the european union, the rapporteur believes that this is the right moment for the eu to highlight the protection and promotion of fundamental human rights. in this way, the rapporteur chooses to justify the need for a new agency to enforce rights. this function has been monitored at the highest level since 1953 by the well-respected european court of human rights, which encompasses so many more countries than the eu member states, with very good results. the obvious motive of the report is to maintain an agency for monitoring fundamental human rights, since the constitution has fallen. this is highly remarkable and further demonstrates the eu's tireless drive to become a supranational power that will manage everything in all areas without regard to the existence of intergovernmental agreements and agreements and national self-determination. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. we have also voted that if the proposal is adopted, the rights of the child should be given a prominent place in the work of the agency. the june list rejects the report as a whole.
in writing. we voted against the whole of the report by mr jeggle, a6-0290/2006, because it is in several respects counter to the union's efforts to improve animal welfare. we cannot support the idea that the eu should delay the introduction of better animal welfare until our trading partners in the wto do the same. this will seriously impede progress in this area. we also oppose the introduction of trade barriers against third countries with lower animal welfare standards than the eu. this is likely to affect developing countries that depend on agricultural exports to the eu. however, we would like to stress that we are in favour of the commission's action plan for animal welfare and animal protection. we also welcome the parts of the report which seek to move forward in several important areas of animal welfare.
in writing. we believe that pursuing a policy within the eu aimed at protecting animals and improving their welfare is an essential responsibility of the union of values. i therefore agree with the report in its entirety. however, i do not support the idea in the report's justification of creating an eu centre or laboratory for animal welfare and animal welfare. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that an animal welfare policy is pursued in accordance with the general animal welfare strategy agreed at eu level.
in writing. we welcome the commission's proposal for an action plan for animal welfare 2006-2010. there is a great need to improve the conditions for animals in practice and the commission's proposal contains many important proposals. unfortunately, we have had to conclude that the jeggles report has not lived up to our high expectations, in particular by emphasizing the deterioration of competitiveness resulting from high standards of animal welfare, which in practice risks making a progressive policy in this area impossible. that is why we have decided to abstain in the final vote on the report today.
in writing. we believe that pursuing a policy within the eu aimed at protecting animals and improving their welfare is an essential responsibility of the union of values. i therefore agree with the report in its entirety. however, i do not support the idea in the report's justification of creating an eu centre or laboratory for animal welfare and animal welfare. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that an animal welfare policy is pursued in accordance with the general animal welfare strategy agreed at eu level. i also disagree with part of the call in paragraph 71 of the motion for a resolution to put an end to dogfighting and bullfighting at eu level by means of legislation at eu level. in our view, it is ultimately up to the citizens of a member state to decide in national elections or referendums whether they wish to ban the abovementioned activities within the territory of their state.
in writing. the junilists believe that freer trade is good for world prosperity. the idea of free trade is that the more people involved, the better the outcome for the parties involved. this own-initiative report contains many meritorious elements which could lead to increased prosperity. unfortunately, as so often happens in this congregation, irrelevant and negative writings are added. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. unfortunately, the aspects just mentioned overshadow the desirable that could be achieved. i therefore voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. free trade is the most important means of prosperity in the world, and the more countries that participate in such free trade, the more prosperity increases in the countries that participate. bringing large parts of south america into a free trade area with the eu is therefore a major step towards prosperity and poverty eradication. this own-initiative report therefore contains many worthwhile proposals which, if implemented, could lead to increased prosperity. as is so often the case in this house, it unfortunately also contains a great deal of writing, the aim of which is to promote the development of the european union into a federal superpower and to increase the power of parliament at the expense of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. despite these strong objections, i consider that it is better to conclude this regional association agreement than to stop it.
in writing. we have voted against this resolution because its content seeks to restrict and in various ways make it more difficult for third countries to access the internal market and to introduce various new forms of aid to eu farmers in this sector. we believe that the market must be opened up to agricultural products in general, including berries and cherries for processing. it is indeed a scandal that the committee on agriculture has suddenly tabled a motion for a resolution in the european parliament which talks about excessive imports of berries from third countries and which seeks to introduce, among other things: qualified market access, support schemes for producer groups, special entry price safeguard clauses, financial support for the liquidation of perennial berry and cherry plantations in situations of persistent surplus supply. we in this parliament are definitely opposed to such proposals.
in writing. i am voting against these two reports because the report by kósáne kovács is most likely to emphasise the eu's task of defining and implementing a common foreign and security policy. i believe that the resources available should be devoted to existing bodies such as the council of europe, the osce and the european court of human rights and not compete with them.
for the verts/ale group. mr president thank you, mr coelho, for your work on improving this proposal. it is important that we increase data protection, which the european parliament is trying to do. it is important that people know what is being recorded about them, on good grounds. i think that schengen, and the schengen information system, have been beset by problems from the very beginning. in practice, we have replaced simple border controls with the ability for authorities to constantly monitor residents once they are in the country. what is proposed here is an expansion of the authorities that have access to data. this means that we will be making greater use of this data, and we will have to be even more careful about the data we are putting in. for that reason, i think it is inappropriate to include biometric data. when the united states discussed doing this, they let their court of auditors examine the possibilities. it was concluded that there was a great risk either that many who have the right to come into our union will not get through or if you reduce the margins of security that those who you want to stop will get through. there are many people, for example hardworking people with bad fingerprints, who will not be able to be identified reliably by fingerprints. there's a risk that the innocent will be rejected and the guilty will slip through the cracks. biometric data is also very expensive. it is not acceptable that such data should now be used for searching purposes and that this should be decided by a committee procedure. biometric data is a privacy violation, especially since it could very well affect innocent people. that is not a path we should take. some governments are now pushing last-minute measures to give the security police access to this data. the whole principle of data protection, the whole principle of the right to know what has been recorded about a person, the whole principle of legal certainty and the rule of law, falls. i think it would be just as well if the council withdrew that discussion from the agenda. the security police shall not have access to this information.
mr president, commissioner, members of the audience and members of the house! i want to thank coelho and the others for a good job. we, the countries that have been able to join sis, have seen immediate results with the search registers in our work against the borderless crime that moves between the eu countries. we look forward to a more developed sis ii system in which all 25 and soon 27 countries can participate. in the reports made available to the public, this cooperation has given us both an instrument to stop former convicts from returning and a tool in the fight against drugs. we have also been given a tool in the fight against human traffickers who not only smuggle and transport children for prostitution but also for exploitation as labour. once sis ii is built and operational, we can provide effective evidence of cooperation to citizens. however, this also requires that we continue to work both against crime and for the protection of personal privacy. dialogue is needed if we are to live up to the expectations placed on us in the general debate on peace, security and justice as the basis of all our work. but can't we do this faster?
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their excellent speeches. before i turn to the amendments, i would like to respond to the barnier report and say that the commission has already started work on many of the issues related to this report and that, of course, the most important of all is the development of civil protection units. meetings have been held with experts from the member states to determine which types of units should be available in each case and also as regards the specific terms and conditions for each type of unit. a second area of work is that of training, and although there is no provision for the creation of a european institute - as the barnier report suggests - we nevertheless propose to develop a network of centres which will extend the existing training programme. we also agree that the monitoring and information centre should be strengthened. and we have already asked for an increase in the number of staff, the staff, who will be employed in this centre. we have also asked the member states to give us the opportunity next year to use certain experts in the mic (monitoring and information centre). the commission has two legislative proposals: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. now, as regards the amendments, the european parliament has tabled a number of important amendments aimed at strengthening the possibilities of civil protection at european level. the amendments concern the need to ensure timely delivery of civil protection assistance, the importance of early warning and alert systems, the interoperability of civil protection units and the role that the mechanism can play in helping european union citizens. the commission can accept most of the proposed amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. these are those relating to the provision of measures on prevention, public health and intentional marine pollution. as regards the measures relating to prevention, the commission would like to stress that the proposal for the financial instrument for political protection will cover actions in this field. the community civil protection mechanism is intended to cover actions only in the areas of preparedness and intervention. the commission nevertheless agrees with the european parliament on the importance of preventive action and is committed to promoting it in the appropriate context. as regards the inclusion of public health, the commission recognises that civil protection actions are - very often - aimed at protecting public health. however, the mechanisms set up at european union level for civil protection are not part of public health policy, which is covered by other existing community instruments such as the community action programme in the field of health. now, as regards intentional, deliberate marine pollution, the commission fully supports the proposal that the civil protection mechanism should be able to intervene in cases of widespread marine pollution caused either by accident or by intentional causes. the european commission's proposal to extend the scope to cover man-made disasters also covers this possibility. however, the term 'intentional, deliberate' marine pollution usually refers to small illegal discharges of oil from ships and the commission wishes to avoid interpreting the scope of the regulation to cover such small-scale discharges. it would be practically impossible for the commission to mobilize the mechanism - the staff are not even there, as i said earlier - but of course even this kind of small rejection should be dealt with by the means available to each country. the amendments were therefore rejected. the commission notes that the amendments relate to aspects of existing legislation. the commission supports in substance some of these amendments. however, the interinstitutional agreement on the use of the recasting technique does not allow the commission to accept them unless they are essential for the implementation of the new provisions contained in the proposal or if they directly follow from the new provisions. the commission will, however, take these issues into account in the development of our policy in this area. the commission's position differs from the european parliament's report on these main points. i would like to stress, however, that these differences of opinion do not overshadow our common objectives. we fully share the european parliament's ambition to develop a much stronger european intervention capacity in the field of civil protection, both within and outside the european union, and we thank you for your support. i am forwarding to the secretariat of parliament a full list of the commission's position on the amendments. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr papademos, again on his excellent work.
the european parliament is now considering a proposal to revise the emergency services mechanism, which was set up in 2001. there is no doubt that disasters cause great stress for the parties affected. however, a coordinated european rescue service is not the solution to the problem, especially not as this proposal looks. rescue services in each member state are financed by taxation. it is up to each state to choose how tax revenues from its citizens are to be distributed. this proposal may risk some member states opting to allocate a minimum of resources to national emergency services, relying on other eu countries to help in the event of a disaster. this 'free riding' problem is very serious and unfair to the citizens of those countries that choose to have a strong rescue service. as regards international operations, these should be coordinated through ocha and financed by the member states and not by the eu. the commission's documents also mention rapid reaction forces and the fact that member states must communicate what resources are available, including military resources and military capabilities, in cases where an affected country requests that type of support. the junilists are firmly opposed to this. the military resources of a country are a national matter and it is up to each member state to decide whether or not to mobilise them.
the questioner. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking karin jöns for her great commitment and for tackling this extremely important issue. as karin jöns has already said, this is the most common form of cancer among women. it is also the most common cause of death among women aged 35-59 years. we also know that breast cancer is increasing among younger women, and that the chances of detecting the disease vary greatly between the different member states of the european union. the availability of mammography varies from country to country. i know from my own country, sweden, where we have had mammography for a long time for women in certain age groups, that mammography has been effective in reducing mortality among women and that it is important to detect the disease early in order to be able to initiate the right treatment. all this makes the efforts contained in the resolutions mentioned by mrs jöns extremely important. three committees are involved in this work. we in the committee on employment are not specifically responsible for health and health care, but for the link with the labour market. fortunately, we now have a labour market which is willing to involve women, and women are increasingly represented on it. in my own country, the female employment rate is as high as the male. if you get a serious disease like breast cancer, one aspect of treatment is actually, you have to give time to treatment. sometimes you can remain in your working life, but then you must also be able to discuss with your employer how to adapt your working life to function during your treatment. or you may become seriously ill for a period of time, but recover from treatment and return to work. the question then is how to reintegrate in a way that allows me to function, so that the treatment for breast cancer cannot affect my relationship with the world of work in a negative way. it is important that we raise these issues - that is one aspect of the concern of the committee on employment. the second aspect is the staff working on these issues. there's always something happening in terms of research, development and methods of treating breast cancer. it is important that health-care professionals are kept up to date with new methods that are emerging. we have instruments at european level to help develop the skills of staff within the framework of the social fund. we must also be able to use the social fund for skills development for this activity, so that staff can use the best methods. this is also something for the lisbon process. the lisbon process is about best practice, and we will look at the countries that have come the furthest. in conclusion, i would like to say something that i also discussed with karin jöns. this is a disease that affects women, but it is important that we men commit ourselves to better practices. it is not just women who should be involved in better treatment of women's diseases, but all of us - men and women. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the very positive responses; there may be still some pressure for doing more. we all want to do more for culture, because it is important for the european mentality and european identity; for living together in one broader and broader house. i think that the best narrative of europe is diversity and unity. diversity growing means an invitation to promote and deepen unity, and unity based on values is mostly promoted via our cultural programme. i am sure that some points that were mostly to do with the budget are invitations to do more in future. if you recall the previous programme, we had seven cents per culture, per year, per citizen – mr bono mentioned that now we will have 15 cents. there were invitations to do ten times more – 70 cents per culture. i just want to remind people that the budgetary authority in the union is parliament. your support, but also further support, will help to create more space. the citizenship programme is also based on the cultural article 151 of the treaty. first of all, this is the competence and basic responsibility of member states. we are supporting member states in their cooperation, not replacing them. we will have the european year of intercultural dialogue in 2008 and the achievement in negotiating a new convention on cultural diversity protection and promotion under unesco shows the success of this union. i want to assure parliament that the implementation of the programme as soon as possible after the final decision will allow us quantitatively and qualitatively to do more for culture via culture for europe. i am sure that we will have many occasions to work together on the implementation.
in writing. i would like to reiterate the junist position of 27 september this year. i voted against this report because it rejects the council of ministers' proposal for amending budget no 3. the junilist, unlike the majority in the committee on budgets, believes that the council of ministers can very well, if it deems it appropriate, reallocate expenditure between the various eu institutions during the implementation of the budget.
in writing. the amending budget is made up of three separate parts in completely different areas. i have chosen to vote against the whole package as it has been put forward. as regards the total of eur 259 million in financial support to stimulate the economic development of the turkish cypriot community, the question arises: is there still a comprehensive solution for the peaceful and stable development of cyprus when the eu is now stepping in and contributing significant financial resources? as regards the appropriation for the european year of equal opportunities for all, the junilista has already expressed scepticism about the whole project. as regards budgetary adjustments due to the modernisation of the accounting system, it is more of a technical matter, although i am sceptical about the overall operation of the european development fund.
in writing. i would like to reiterate the negative position of the junilists at the first reading of the case in september 2005. the question we should ask ourselves is this: is the eu supposed to deal with this type of policy issue or is this the responsibility of the member states? the junilists' answer is given, this is a question for the member states. if the member states wish to devote special resources to promoting the national film industry, they are of course fully entitled to do so. the eu, however, will not pursue specific programmes to promote the european film industry. if several eu countries consider it necessary to cooperate in this policy area, they can do so without eu involvement. intergovernmental agreements or cooperation between film companies may take place outside the eu. the eu does not need any more ambitious and costly projects. the eu should instead seek limited cooperation on important and genuinely crossborder issues.
in writing. of course, cultural matters are very important. junilista believes that cultural policy should, in principle, be managed by the member states. however, in the case of european cultural heritage, it may be justified to deal with certain issues at community level. we believe, however, that this cultural programme has been given too generous a grant for an activity which should be the responsibility of the member states. i have therefore voted against the amendment in this report.
in writing. we welcome the commission's proposal to improve the emergency services mechanism introduced in 2001. europe and the rest of the world are affected by all kinds of accidents and crises, and intensive coordination to respond to these is of course desirable. unfortunately, we have had to note that the commission proposal and papadimoulis' report make clear references to the need for military resources to be made available to the rescue service. we strongly oppose any initiative for military cooperation within the european union. that is why we decided to abstain in the final vote on the papadimoulis report today and we also decided to vote against the commission's proposal.
in writing. i object to the constitutional proposal to use each other's military efforts. however, a coordination center that can help move fire-fighting helicopters to where they are needed most at the moment is wise and cost-effective. in addition, in the event of major disasters, there is a severe shortage of highly advanced fire-rescue services, and it is very good if we can help each other quickly. this is precisely the kind of cooperation the eu should be pursuing. i vote for it.
in writing. the moderates voted today in favor of the report on women's immigration. the fundamental rights of immigrants must be respected and should not be dependent on gender or a specified group of people. we support a common regulation of migration policy, which is a natural continuation of schengen cooperation. we are opposed to a common integration policy, which is best handled by the member states themselves. we also do not want any records of female genital mutilation, as this constitutes a breach of privacy which we cannot support.
in writing. the junilist has previously stated that the eu is a union of values. i have therefore chosen to support formulations which make it clear that all groups in society should have equal rights. junilista supports constructive measures aimed at achieving greater integration of vulnerable groups in society. we believe, however, that the national parliaments and the regional authorities should be the ones to tackle this urgent issue. i am critical of the general trend of the eu institutions seeking to achieve greater influence and competence in an increasing number of areas. it is important to draw a clear line between what the eu decides and what is left to the national and local levels.
mr president, i would like to thank you. firstly, the junilists believe that the eu's common agricultural policy must be scrapped. as i have pointed out so many times before in this house, agricultural policy is reprehensible because the money goes to the wrong - and often very rich - beneficiaries. in addition, the world's poorest countries are being deprived of a real opportunity to sell their agricultural products on the eu market by subsidising an agriculture that is not competitive. secondly, the junilists believe that structural policy should be re-nationalised. the eu funds that return to sweden are highly conditional and in most cases not adapted to swedish needs. next year, sweden's contribution to the eu budget will increase to just over eur 3 billion. the return is approximately eur 1 billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's agricultural and trade policies are fair and transparent.
member of the commission. madam member, i do not think the future of the euro is in question at all. the euro, a few years after its launch in 1999 and five years after more than 300 million europeans could have it in their pockets for the first time as a means of payment in coins and notes, is now a reality that is considered a success by those who use it. so, in my view, the question is not whether the euro has a future; the question is whether countries that are not properly preparing to adopt the euro will suffer the consequences in the future. that's the real question. every time i have contact with the authorities of countries which will have to adopt the euro in the future but which do not yet meet the criteria required by the treaty, i urge them to adopt a credible and effective strategy to meet those criteria and adopt the single currency. we are living in a time in recent years when there is abundant liquidity on the financial markets, interest rates are low and memories of monetary crises and exchange rate volatility are being left behind in the european territory, but no one can guarantee that these situations that we have known in the past, before the existence of the euro, will not reappear in the future. i hope they don't come up, but they can. we have experience of the advantages which the 311 million europeans derive from sharing a common currency, and we have even experience of the advantages which the fact that twelve of them have already adopted the common currency brings to all the european member states. there is therefore ample reason to convince the member states which have not yet adopted the euro to prepare and adopt economic policy decisions aimed at meeting these criteria and at strengthening a currency which, seven years after its birth, is already the second most important currency in the world.
the swedish people have voted by a large majority to reject joining emu. posselt wants to overturn the result of a referendum. it is not compatible with a democratic approach. sweden's economy has not been negatively affected by our being outside the single currency union. i would ask the commissioner to say that he fully supports the result of the swedish referendum and that he rejects mr posselt's regrettable and undemocratic approach.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive and good cooperation. it made it possible to find a solution at first reading with the council, which also worked well on this. this solution improves on the commission's original proposal and i am glad that the commission is now also accepting the compromise. pfos and pfos-related substances are highly fluoridated and extremely difficult to degrade. they are also highly bioaccumulative. we have learned that organochlorine compounds are toxic and cause problems in nature and we have seen that organobromine compounds are harmful. flame retardants threaten us more than the fires they were supposed to prevent. now we're in the luck of the fluoroorganic compounds. they're extremely stable, and the bond between fluorine and carbon is the strongest of all in organic chemistry. the stability and surface activity properties are what have made pfos a sought-after chemical. for many years, as the commissioner said, it was used in the coating of chemicals and textiles. the largest manufacturer realized the risks to its workers and consumers. the workers had high levels of mercury in them. they decided to withdraw the pfos product scotchguard from the market. the commission's aim in its proposal was to stop the reintroduction of pfos, but the compromise goes further. we now have stricter concentration rules and set the limit for preparations at 0.005 percent. this is justified as its surfactant characteristics allow pfos to be used in low concentrations. if the limit were set at 0.1%, there would be a risk that several applications would slip through the net of the legislation. the definition of areas of 1 microgram per square metre also has the same objective. the compromise with the council also means that pfos in fire-fighting foam will be banned. it makes perfect sense. already today there are alternatives on the market without fluoro-organic compounds. the commission is also proposing to extend the period of storage to 54 months. everyone has a vested interest in speeding up the settlement. the great oil fire in england, which produced millions of litres of pfos-contaminated water, has shown the costs of using pfos. the only way to destroy pfos is high-temperature combustion. each of us can calculate for himself how difficult it will be to burn millions of gallons of water at high temperatures. incremental is the other big area. the proposal now limits the use of non-decorative chromium-silicate hard chromium as a process tool. this derogation will also be reviewed following an inventory of remaining essential uses to be carried out by the member states within two years. here too, there are alternatives, such as larger enclosed systems, increased ventilation and, hopefully, other processes in the future. for the other exemptions such as photolithography processes and anti-reflective and photographic film treatment, these are very small quantities. however, these exemptions should also be abolished as soon as technically and economically feasible. i also want to mention pfoa. that is, the acids and salts of the same group of substances. in germany many germans know what it is like to have polluted water in the ruhr area, where people now have to get their drinking water from tankers. a costly and unsustainable solution. we can try to stop this pollution by the amendment now in the pfoa compromise, where the commission is to review and constantly monitor the development of alternatives. where safe alternatives are available, these shall replace pfoa. i think we're way ahead of our time here. we have to address this, because the next big environmental problem could be fluoroorganic chemistry and its variants. this is a first step towards protecting people and the environment from some of these substances. i would also point out that this is a first reading agreement and that parliament's support for this compromise means that the council is supporting it and that we will be ready before reach comes into force. then this is included as an addendum to reach. if we don't get this deal done by tomorrow, the bill will fall flat, because then reach will take over.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, commission and members of the european parliament! we shall now decide on the restriction of the dangerous and harmful substances perfluorooctane sulphonate and the closely related perfluorooctane acid pfos and pfoa. i am particularly pleased that there is such widespread support for the solid work that my compatriot carl schlyter has put in place. good work, carl! i think we should bear this in mind when we take another extremely important decision later this autumn - for both the environment and our health - namely the reach chemicals act. i hope that there will be a great deal of support from the left and the right, from the commission to the council of ministers. pfos is, as already mentioned, a harmful substance. it is bioaccumulative, which means it is stored for a long time in the environment and in our bodies. a world wildlife fund study of people in 17 countries found pfos and six other perfluorocarbons in the human body. so it's high time we got a limit. i am therefore pleased that carl schlyter and a largely unanimous environment committee have tightened up the threshold for the amount of pfos that can be used on the market. i would also have liked the committee to have put in more clear timetables for when pfos is to be phased out of the market. with that reservation, i think this is an excellent report which i and my group gue/ngl look forward to voting in favour of. i want to finish where i started. it is good that parliament is restricting substances that are harmful to health and the environment. and it is very good that there is such a broad support for these measures. so i hope we will keep that in mind when we make decisions on reach later this autumn. let us, then, have broad support for a strong chemicals legislation.
mr president, i welcome the european union’s united negotiations and discussions with russia on human rights, the rule of law, the murder of anna politkovskaya and other journalists in russia and, of course, on energy. there is an old russian saying that says ‘love your neighbour but put up a fence’. the current energy negotiations with russia have to be based on reciprocity, the rule of law and transparency. however, what is happening now in russia in the field of energy is the very opposite of this and we need to take note of it. this also proves the absolute necessity of a common european energy policy, not only on security of supply but also for fighting global warming. very soon we will be negotiating the emissions-trading system with russia, which has signed and ratified the kyoto protocol. that will be the true test both of european union unity and what russia ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. terrorism, in all its forms, is a heinous phenomenon that mostly affects innocent civilians. a true democrat must, in any event, reject and condemn such acts. parliament has today considered motions for resolutions from several political groups on the peace process in spain. unfortunately, the rejection of terrorism and the support for the peace process have been overshadowed by political power struggles which are really about spanish politics. it is a question which must ultimately be decided in the sovereign state of the kingdom of spain. it is therefore very sad to see how various political forces in the european parliament are trying to exploit this tragic chapter in spanish history in an opportunistic way. in the light of the above, i have voted today against all the motions for resolutions on the peace process in spain.
in writing. the content of the programme is open to question. the rapporteur wrote in his explanatory statement at first reading that it 'contributes significantly to active citizenship of young people in society and deepens their sense of belonging to the eu, which can bring significant european added value'. we question whether the programme really makes any substantial contribution to this objective. international youth exchanges are a positive thing, but they must be solved financially through the efforts of civil society or through the provision of funds by the member states. we do not believe that the eu should engage in this kind of activity.
in writing. i would like to reiterate the negative position of the junilists at the first reading of the case in october 2005. although the junilists are supporters of the erasmus programme, for example, there are other parts of the subprogramme proposals which need to be examined carefully to determine their validity, given that each member state is responsible under the treaty for the organisation and content of education and training systems. overall, too much money has been allocated to too many projects. we question the existence and financing of some of these projects through the eu.
in writing. i would like to reiterate the negative position of the junilists at the first reading of the case in april 2006. we are very much against several of the positions taken by the european parliament's committee on culture and education on this programme. the work on this case has been based primarily on a disagreement with the low turnout in the 2004 european parliament elections and the rejection of the constitutional treaty in referendums in france and the netherlands. the 'citizens for europe' programme has nothing to contribute to changing the political situation. the work done by local amateur sports associations in this programme breeds contempt for citizens. we also note the importance of the peoples of europe cherishing their memories of dictatorships and tragedies in their history. but it has to be done at national level. this is not something for the eurocrats in brussels to concern themselves with. the junilists therefore rejected the amendments to the agenda tabled by the committee on culture.
in writing. the establishment of sis ii is seen by eu-critical forces as another building block of a common eu police force and as part of the fabric that, on a case-by-case basis, forms an eu state. the eu is developing into the ultimate closed control society that many swedes feared when sweden joined. this is happening with the blessing of politicians on both the left and the right, who, with populist messages such as law enforcement and external border controls, are contributing to the building of a de facto orwellian society. the junilist is for cross-border police cooperation. it is necessary to deal with international crime today, but this has been successfully done for decades by the international police agency interpol. the cost of another information system that is only valid within the european union is therefore superfluous. junilista is very sceptical about the fact that the entities in the member states responsible for issuing vehicle registration certificates should have access to highly sensitive personal data. the management of such data should be a national concern. all states must be able to guarantee their citizens protection against unauthorised access to their personal data. the junilist therefore votes against all three reports on sis ii and access to the system.
in writing. are eu actions against breast cancer more effective than those of established internationally recognised organisations with broad expertise, such as the who? the junilists' answer to this question is no. the european parliament should not dictate to what extent member states should implement significant measures such as mammography examinations, breast cancer awareness campaigns, breast cancer research, the establishment of cancer registries and the establishment of breast cancer information centres. the appropriate coordination and crossborder cooperation is preferably carried out within an organisation such as the who, rather than within the eu. i have therefore voted against the resolution in question.
in writing. the junilist believes that free trade is desirable because it leads to an increase in the prosperity of all parties involved. it is worth noting that, until joining the eu, sweden was one of the most free trade-friendly countries in the world. the eu sometimes pursues a very protectionist policy, to protect sectors which are not competitive on the international market. agricultural aid is an example of this, where agricultural products are subsidised, with the result that equivalent products from other countries, often developing countries, cannot be sold on the eu market. a well-functioning world trade system is of the utmost importance if free trade is to become a reality. however, the muscardini report is protectionist, which is why i voted against it in today's vote.
for the verts/ale group. it is a tragic event that has struck the ivory coast and we all express our sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the criminal behaviour of european companies. victims must be given all the support that can be offered to them in this process. we have had a ban on the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries since 1997. it is time to make sure that it is properly implemented. it is unacceptable that the dutch authorities did not take their responsibility when they had the chance to stop the ship. all credit to estonia for doing what was needed. i would like to thank commissioner dimas for your rapid recognition of the seriousness of the situation. the commission must now make a rapid proposal for stricter enforcement. we need to ensure that every time someone undertakes to transport hazardous waste, there is a person with personal responsibility who signs a liability policy. the board and the executive director must also be given greater personal responsibility. otherwise, traditions with unclear and complicated responsibilities will make it difficult to approach unscrupulous carriers and shipowners. africa has suffered enough from colonialism and slavery and the exploitation of its natural resources. we must now stop this latest form of neo-colonialism where we dump our waste in poorer countries if we are to call ourselves civilized.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? this is a reaction to the commission's green paper and to public-private partnerships, which aim to clarify ambiguities, not least in the area of inhouse services. however, we all agree that we should not tear up existing legislation on public procurement, as the commissioner so wisely said. public-private partnerships should promote competition and, in particular, contribute to innovation and efficiency in the public sector. the commission must now solve the problem - that is the aim - without legislating more than is necessary. we are not, however, locked in on that point and, as langen said, we therefore support amendment no 21 by mr weiler. we are asking for legislation on concessions and the commission has responded positively and quickly. we agree that the threshold values should not be exceeded and that normal legal principles should apply below those values where public procurement is not a requirement. we do not want to reduce the space for public procurement and we clearly call on the commission to propose solutions to the problems of municipal cooperation in germany, france and elsewhere, but not to forget less wealthy municipalities who want to cooperate in sparsely populated areas of member states such as finland and sweden. if the commission does not fulfil this task, it can probably expect heavy pressure from parliament. i am convinced that the commission will do an excellent job in this task and we want to give it time to deal with the points of view in the green paper and to come forward with proposals. all stakeholders should be involved in the continuation process. the committee can certainly help to raise the level of knowledge in this difficult area. the 45/47 points already guarantee better legal certainty and show that municipalities can cooperate. we shall also see more clearly in the future how this is to be done in more detail. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr weiler very warmly for his excellent work and the many people who have been involved. thank you so much for that. we will have a more competitive and legally secure europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very good job. as many others have said, this is an important directive for the free movement of workers, but also for the protection of workers. there are a number of shortcomings - we know this from the hearings - in terms of information, the possibility of carrying out checks and cooperation between member states. let me state that we are not in favour of protectionism, but open borders. we are in favour of equal competition between firms, but we are also in favour of equal treatment of employees. this is what equal treatment is all about. now some have gone and referred to the vaxholm case. it was about latvian workers not being treated worse than swedish workers. they would receive the same treatment, not worse, but the same treatment. one point on which we have had disagreements with the commission is the importance of a representative. you suggest that it is enough to have a link to someone to negotiate with in another country. it's going to be extremely bureaucratic and extremely difficult. a representative must be able to communicate in the countries conducting the negotiations and then you must have someone with a negotiating mandate. you also have to be able to communicate with the occupational health and safety authorities and so on. anything else is completely impossible. there are no legal cases that contradict what i'm saying. the arblade case was about something else. it was a matter of documents which were to be kept for five years under belgian law and are therefore not relevant to the commission's argument. i hope that we will make this directive on posting work well in society, but then it must include these elements.
i am sorry, but you have unfortunately forgotten the original text of paragraph 45.
in writing. we want the budget to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development for the eu in line with the lisbon strategy. we have therefore voted in favour of the amendments which give priority to research, development and education. however, we do not want to support the amendments which provide more money for direct agricultural aid and export refunds for agricultural products, as this aid is already oversized. this support also results in inefficient agriculture that harms the environment and, by dumping surpluses, contributes to widening the gap between the world's poor and rich. we also do not want to give money to tobacco farming, which directly contributes to public health problems. we believe that this aid should be reduced rapidly and that it should be abolished in the near future. the money thus saved can be used, among other things, for measures to reduce tobacco use and dependence.
in writing. the junilists believe that the eu budget should be limited to 1.00% of the average gnp of the member states. i have therefore voted against all the increases proposed by the european parliament, while junilista welcomed the few savings proposed by either the committee on budgets or individual members as amendments. there are other unfortunate budget lines, but junilista particularly regrets the high support for the eu's agricultural policy, the cohesion fund and the fisheries sector, as well as the budget lines which include support for various forms of information campaigns. the junilists also believe that the european parliament's constant travel between strasbourg and brussels must be corrected and that the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions should be abolished. this week (23/10/2006) the european court of auditors found for the 13th consecutive year that it cannot be held responsible for more than a small part of the eu budget being used correctly or for its intended purpose. how can the madness continue, year after year, of allocating funds that can only to a small extent be guaranteed to go to their intended purpose?
in writing. we are opposing a continued expansion of the eu-budget, which today is already too extensive with a large part of the funds going to the wrong ends. today there seem to be a reciprocal action between new objectives for the union and demands on financing via eu. these mean new demands on payments from the member states, but also that new funds are being transferred to a system which is bureaucratic, inefficient and complex. however, there are many desirable initiatives being financed via the budget, and we support reasonable changes of existing means. but our opposition to a constantly increasing budget is firm, and therefore we have chosen to vote against the report in the final vote.
in writing. we have voted today in favour of the reports on the eu budget for 2007. we welcome the approach of giving taxpayers more value for their money. we also support the efforts made in research and development and the ambition to strengthen the eu as a global player. we reject, however, the proposals to increase the appropriations for agricultural and regional aid. as always, we are also sceptical of centrally designed campaigns and opinion formation.
in writing. the junilist believes that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. it is important, for reasons of principle, to follow the policy we have chosen. there is no doubt that syria should improve its relationship with israel. the junilist is a staunch opponent of all totalitarian regimes and we condemn all countries that choose to support terrorism in all its forms. it is clear that the eu's foreign policy is guided by the different interests of certain member states in regions around the world. i find this policy very insidious and destructive, as the present report is a good example. the eu is trying to influence syria's relations with its neighbours, which cannot be considered acceptable. i choose to abstain for reasons of principle.
in writing. the report stresses that the posting of workers directive is not fully applied by all member states. it is therefore necessary to take a number of measures to ensure that member states can effectively guarantee minimum standards of protection and employment conditions for workers temporarily working in another eu country. junilista supports the application of the host country's legislation to workers working in other member states. this has been established, among other things, in the debates on the services directive. i have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. the swedish people have voted by a large majority to reject the introduction of the euro. i wholeheartedly support this position. the report breathes european propaganda, which i therefore do not support. paragraph 26 contains views on measures to be taken to ensure that europeans do not distance themselves from the euro. paragraph 27 contains propaganda for the constitution. i am opposed to this kind of wording and have voted against the report as a whole.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, commission, members of the european parliament and members of the public! i would like to begin by thanking mr garcía-margallo y marfil for this report on the situation in the euro area. the rapporteur notes that the outlook for the euro area is better than it has been for some time. of course, this depends on the economic policy that is being pursued. the policy pursued has not been a success. large parts of europe are in a social and economic crisis. in europe's largest economy, germany, seven million people live in poverty, according to new statistics. one of the reasons for this is precisely the economic and monetary union, emu, which has the world's most inflation-conservative central bank and a stability pact that underpins economic policy. as the european trade union etuc recently stated in a report, we do not need more of this inflexible policy. the people of europe need an active fiscal policy and a reorganization of the emu. as you know, my home country sweden is not a member of the emu. a clear majority voted no in 2003. that is why i am a little concerned when i read the report. it states that the euro area will comprise 13 member states from 2007 onwards, but that i now quote the coordination of macroeconomic policies and the single market will cover all 27 member states. what does this mean? does this mean that sweden, which voted against emu, will have to join sooner or later? i would be grateful for a reply from the commission and also from the rapporteur if he is allowed to speak at the end of the debate.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it underlines the need for cooperation in strengthening the european economy. it is fair to say that the euro has provided europe with stability that we have never seen before. when i listened earlier to my swedish colleague, it sounded as though it was a problem for the european economy to have low interest rates. however, the truth is that we have lower interest rates than ever before. does anyone think that the european economy would have been better if we had the interest rates of the 1970s or 1980s, or if we had the budget deficits of those years when europe was losing out in the european economy? let us stop dreaming and look at the reality. today we have a common currency that places the emphasis on and encourages competition, trade and investment and focuses on the need for structural reforms, as well as the need for fiscal discipline. that is good. that provides us with opportunities, because the problem of the european economy is not the interest rates, it is the lack of deregulation, it is the lack of more trade and of more of the internal market. we can see that we are more efficient and more successful since we opened up the markets. i believe that the euro will never be stronger than the european economy and the discipline of the countries participating in the euro. that also underlines the need for the european central bank to be independent, as underlined in the report. that is very important, because otherwise we will lose credibility. from a swedish perspective, we will soon have the euro in a number of new countries around the baltic sea. i hope we will have a debate in my country that will make it possible for us to join them and other euro countries in the years to come.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their exemplary work and the excellent reports they have written. they improve the commission's proposal by requiring good status to be achieved in 2017 instead of 2021. in addition, the objectives are made binding and the importance of marine reserves is emphasised. climate change, waste, unsustainable fishing, noise, over-fertilisation and the extraction of raw materials are all threats to our oceans. if the mass destruction and natural disaster that happens in the deep ocean were visible on land, the debate on marine protection would dominate everyday life. flocks of fish, birds and mammals are threatened with extinction. the marine strategy can be a small step in trying to tackle the problems, if it is as ambitious as the committee on the environment proposes. member states must take responsibility for establishing significantly more marine reserves. we have national parks in every country, but marine reserves shine with their absence where they're needed most. there is overwhelming statistical evidence that marine reserves provide protection that both increases fisheries and biodiversity in the surrounding areas. when fish are allowed to grow in shelter, the older fish spread out and produce better catches. the baltic sea in particular is a very sensitive sea with brackish waters. the baltic sea countries must always be able to impose stricter requirements on water protection if they consider it necessary, without being constantly threatened by lengthy legal proceedings to put the internal market before the protection of the sea. i would like to stress the importance of the committee's demand that no subsidies be given to farming which leaks large amounts of nutrients into the sea. my amendments 81 and 82 aim to regulate emissions from waste storage in a serious way. the original proposal is too weak on this point. i am opposed to amendment no 90 to remove the reference to radioactive substances, as this would be contrary to the original objective of 2002. finally, the commission the requirements of the maritime strategy for the exploitation of the seas must be adapted and modified to fit within the framework of the maritime strategy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank lienemann and kušķis, who have done a very meritorious job with these directives. i myself live by the baltic sea and have therefore unfortunately seen firsthand what it means for individuals, but also for employment and growth, when the marine ecosystems are out of balance. i also know that people expect us in this house to take a strong stance and do something about the problems they face every day. i therefore hope that tomorrow parliament will not listen to the previous speakers but will give broad support to the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment. firstly, a much faster process, which means that measures are introduced earlier and a much more ambitious timetable for achieving the objective of good environmental status in our seas than the commission has proposed. secondly, more clearly defined objectives which, as mr lienemann said, guarantee that we actually achieve something and that it does not just end up as a snowball. thirdly, the baltic sea, which is perhaps the worst affected, should be a pilot area for this strategy, where measures should be introduced at an early stage, preferably on the basis of the helsinki convention. it's necessary to save the baltic sea.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is good to be back, and i have started my work by reading two good reports. the ability of our oceans to survive the pressures on the marine environment is a responsibility for all of us. the european union and this house have a special responsibility to find ways of working across borders with coordinated and powerful measures. time is, as many have pointed out, short, extremely short. in the part of europe where i live, the baltic sea is the most important sea and the sea that has been and still is the most threatened. that is why we are very concerned about the planned gas pipeline from russia to germany. the more detailed plans will be presented tomorrow. a gas pipeline in the sensitive baltic sea poses a major environmental threat. the pipeline could be damaged by ships, by old mines left behind and exposed to terrorist attacks. the pipeline poses a threat to the environment and fisheries, both at the time of construction and during its lifetime. the risks, in my view, far outweigh the benefits. europe certainly needs energy, but this natural gas pipeline will not be laid on the bottom of the baltic sea. if the gas pipeline is to be built, it should be on land for the sake of the marine environment and the baltic sea!
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i listened to your debate with interest and i am pleased to say that it generally appreciates the overall approach adopted by the commission. on the other hand, it is clear that the question is so complex and often urgent that there are different views on many issues and that many issues still require further investigation and clarification. let me now go into some of the major changes in detail. in the implementation timetable (amendments 20, 24, 31, 32, 34, 35 and 69), the commission proposed 2021 as the deadline for member states to achieve 'good environmental status' of the marine environment. the environment committee has suggested an earlier date. while the commission would undoubtedly like to see 'good environmental status' achieved quickly, i do not think it is realistic to postpone the implementation deadline. the commission's proposal balances the need to improve our understanding of the marine environment and the threats it faces, firstly, with the need to act, secondly. to find the most appropriate measures to protect the marine environment with the least cost and the greatest efficiency, we must arm ourselves with the necessary knowledge and skills. under these conditions, moving the deadlines forward would be counterproductive. this is evident, especially when we consider the analogy with the current water framework directive, to which this directive is closely linked. the water framework directive, successfully adopted in 2000 with ms lienemann as rapporteur, requires 'good environmental status' by 2015, 15 years after the adoption of the directive. the same would apply to the draft directive on the seas. given the extent of the seas covered by the marine strategy directive and the scale of the task, it should be clear to everyone that the timetable we are already proposing is very ambitious. moreover, the deadline of 2021 proposed by the commission in this directive will coincide with the first review of river basin management plans under the water framework directive, which will ensure synergies in the further implementation of both directives. the commission also considers that it is not practical to require member states to 'achieve good environmental status by 2021' as proposed by the environment committee, in accordance with the directive's objective. that wouldn't be realistic either. the measures to be taken as part of the marine strategy will be fully operational in 2018, according to the proposed timetable. some measures taken will not produce immediate results, as it may take ecosystems some time to respond to the measures. however, there should be an overall positive trend towards good environmental status, which is why the commission proposed the concept of 'achieving good environmental status'. as regards marine protected areas (amendments 27, 39, 62 and 72), the commission can support the introduction of an article which will highlight their importance. such an article should ideally be based on article 6 of the water framework directive, which deals with protected areas. the commission may also support the idea that additional protected areas or even closed nature reserves may be necessary to achieve the objectives of the directive. however, we cannot accept the environment committee's proposal to introduce an obligation to create marine protected areas as part of the implementation of the proposed directive. marine protected areas should only be established if they can directly contribute to the achievement of 'good environmental status'. they should not therefore be created for their own sake, but should be seen as a means, not an end. as regards the key theme of the characteristics of 'good environmental status' (amendment 80), the commission agrees with the committee's wish to incorporate the characteristics directly into the directive. however, the commission has some problems with the list of characteristics as proposed by the environment committee. many of the characteristics are based on specific impacts on the marine environment and threats, rather than on the quality of the ecosystem. such an approach is dangerous because some potential risks and threats may be overlooked or, conversely, unduly emphasised. more importantly, if we were to look only at impacts, the eu would not be able to move from the current fragmented approach to marine environmental management to a more holistic approach that takes into account all impacts and their interactions on the marine environment. finally, as regards the financing issues (amendments 19 and 74), there are several eu financial instruments from which member states will be able to draw, in particular the structural funds, life+, the 7th framework programme for research, and it is therefore not necessary to create specific financial mechanisms. ladies and gentlemen, the debate has touched on the complexity of the whole problem, including the fact that the marine environment is being polluted by the atmosphere, as well as the fact that the quality of the marine environment is highly dependent on climate change management. it was also mentioned that some seas are not included, it was the black sea issue, but the approach of bulgaria and romania is fundamentally changing the situation and opening up new possibilities. as regards the arctic ocean, the geographical situation does not allow for a significant change in the european commission's position and for the development of a separate strategy for this particularly sensitive and important environment, which is not directly linked to the territory of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the list of commission positions on amendments has been forwarded to the parliament's secretariat.
the attention paid to marine issues is very welcome, as there is a great need to ensure that our seas are not polluted or destroyed even more. the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are largely positive and will hopefully improve the state of the marine environment, not least by defining good environmental status. however, there is one article in the commission proposal which raises some concerns. article 13 on specific areas allows for partial disregard of environmental objectives where the changes in an area are the result of measures taken in the public interest. it is to be expected that this article will be quoted extensively. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the commission is very restrictive if and when this happens, because our future environment for all is also of great public interest.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. we all say that the court of auditors has produced a good report; it is enlightening and clearer than it usually is. what's it say? it shows that the abuses continue to the same extent, and we must ask ourselves whether we are going to continue to live with these abuses. this is, of course, a completely unreasonable approach to the problems. we must look at how and why this is happening and come up with clear proposals from the commission on what to do. it must be noted that most of the things that go wrong are related to agricultural policy. there are many other reasons for changing the agricultural policy, namely to abolish it altogether. that would eliminate a very large part of the problems we see in this context. i would nevertheless remind you that this house bears a very large part of the blame for the loss of the eu's reputation among the people of europe. this house always votes to keep everyone on their back and in practice never calls for accountability. it was pathetic to hear the leaders of the pse group and the ppe-de group stand here in the chamber and, almost in tears, say that they felt obliged to postpone the discharge to parliament itself because of the scandal with the premises here in strasbourg. although i had shown that the committee of the regions should not be discharged, it was nevertheless discharged. we must not continue like this!
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in sweden, mercury thermometers were banned over 20 years ago. it is finally time for the eu to follow suit! mercury in measuring instruments is a technology of the past, a deadly chemical that we must end as soon as possible. any claim that mercury is harmless is absurd. worse still, mercury that leaks, ends up in incinerators or is otherwise dispersed and transformed in the environment into readily absorbable forms that are even more harmful to humans and animals. we cannot continue to manufacture barometers which are harmful to the environment for nostalgic reasons. anyone who wants to can buy a harmless electronic replica that looks exactly like an old barometer or buy a used one. the directive is about putting new barometers on the market. now barometers were given a two-year reprieve in the compromise, which is completely unnecessary technically, as the commissioner said, but unfortunately necessary politically to reach a compromise because of too much sensitivity to corporate lobbying. anyone who votes for anything other than the compromise is sabotaging the entire legislation and stopping all phasing out of all thermometers. then we'll have to start over again within the confines of reach. the commission shall, within two years, make proposals for the phasing out, where possible, of other measuring equipment, in particular blood pressure monitors. i would remind the commission that the compromise states that as soon as there are reliable alternatives. for blood pressure monitors, in many cases, there is. go home to brussels immediately and compile a report on the market restriction of blood pressure monitors when possible.
in writing. i believe that eu financial support for the fishing industry should be abolished as soon as possible and that the member states responsible for the withdrawal of fisheries should themselves replace the developing countries affected by eu fisheries agreements. this should not be financed from the eu budget. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the report because it reduces the scope for the special national interest to influence the aid.
in writing. it is unacceptable that the eu is now trying to bind all its member states to a third party in an international agreement. the whole idea of the un convention against corruption is based on voluntary action and respect for national self-determination. in his report, the rapporteur, mr catania, has chosen to invoke 26 different articles of the treaty in support of his proposal. none of these articles gives the eu the power or competence to conclude a legally binding agreement with a third party. the eu should instead focus on the widespread corruption within its own institutions. corruption within the eu is a growing problem that is eroding citizens' confidence in the european idea. the junilist considers that the eu is overstepping its powers and therefore votes against the proposal as a whole.
in writing. the junilist believes that the common agricultural policy (or rural development as it will be called from 2007) should be abolished. this week (23 october 2006) the european court of auditors found for the 13th consecutive year that it cannot be held responsible for more than a small fraction of the 105 billion euro from the eu budget being used correctly or for its intended purpose. agricultural policy aid is one of the most difficult areas to control, and in some sectors, such as olive oil production, there are major problems with control. this can't go on. the eu's funding funnel must be shut down. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. we shall vote against this report, but we shall abstain on the commission's proposal in this case. the report's explanatory statement contains a number of views, including criticism of the abandonment or renationalisation of the cap, which junilista considers to be a good thing, and that it is contrary to the right of the european parliament to participate, a view which junilista does not share. in addition, the explanatory memorandum states that the health check, or the mid-term review as we prefer to call it, of the long-term budget planned for 2008/2009 is to form the basis of proposals for the financing period after 2013 only. that view is certainly not shared by junilistan. we believe that the mid-term review should lead to cuts in the agricultural/rural development budget already in the current 2007-2013 budget period.
in writing. although sweden has abstained in a referendum on joining emu, we have voted against the report and wish to explain why we have done so. the report gives a good picture of how emu goes hand in hand with the creation of a european state. the report calls for coordination of macroeconomic policies among the euro area countries and for the euro area to have a voice in international financial institutions and forums. better fiscal and budgetary coordination is advocated, and national budgetary plans are to be coordinated. the objective of establishing a common consolidated tax base in europe could be achieved by means of the enhanced cooperation mechanism, if member states cannot reach a unanimous agreement. we can only note that the 'no' side in the 2003 swedish referendum on emu was quite correct in their argument that emu is a major step towards a united states of europe.
in writing. in this commentary on the marine environment strategy, the rapporteur raises several interesting and important issues. the commission also stresses that the common fisheries policy must meet the requirements of sustainable development, while allowing member states to decide on emergency measures to protect a particular stock. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. a good idea would be to draw on resources from the structural funds, for example. we have taken the view that the positive aspects of the report outweigh the negative aspects, and that is why we voted in favour of the report in today's vote.
for the alde group. mr president, commission, members and the public! i shall focus on three items in the commission's work programme, namely global competitiveness, green growth and energy. all three are crucial components of a competitive europe. firstly, global competitiveness. the future of europe lies in competing in the front lines of research with quality and with knowledge. only then can the european model be preserved. the seventh framework programme is therefore the most important industrial policy document for many years. i regret to say that this approach is partly lacking in this work programme. space research is good and important, but where are the ambitions for the medical industry? why is it only mentioned in connection with cybercrime? if i had one wish, it would be for a more coherent strategic plan to compete in the 21st century. secondly, the environment and growth. all too often, when such documents are presented, one gets the feeling that the environment and growth are somehow at odds. i'm convinced that's not the case, as i think the work with reach proves. in the coming decades, the world will be forced to do something about climate change. it is about new technologies for saving energy, new technologies for powering cars and so on. there will be a gigantic market for environmentally friendly technology and for energy-efficient products. that is where our european companies should be. i would therefore like the commission to devote more effort in the coming year to developing environmentally-friendly growth. thirdly, energy. europe's competitiveness depends on a secure and economically viable energy supply. it is easier to fight for its principles than to live up to them, but i hope the commission will do well in the areas of global competitiveness, green growth and secure and sustainable energy supply.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. legal certainty means that the exercise of power and the administration of justice can be predicted by the rule of law. the commission's legislative and work programme for 2007 clearly shows that the commission expects the draft constitution to be implemented. this is despite the fact that large majorities in the netherlands and france have voted against this proposal. the struggle between the political establishment and the peoples of europe is thus continuing. the european project is on a dangerous path. the court of justice will lose its legitimacy because of its arrogant attitude towards the elected governments of the member states. the court of justice is in fact a self-appointed authority in europe. it chose, even before the 1998 amsterdam summit, to appoint itself as the guardian of the principle of the separation of powers. this was done without any democratic or political anchoring. the court of justice has also made it clear to the national courts that they cannot consider themselves independent, but are the extension of the court of justice's legal activity. i therefore urge the members of this house to think about it before it is too late. the eu does not need further concentration of power without popular support. the eu needs competition, not just between companies in the market to create better products, but between countries to find good policy solutions to the problems of our time.
president of the council. mr president, we are trying to reach decisions on the globalisation adjustment fund as soon as possible, but the most intense discussions have been on the fund's core principles, i.e. the criteria for the situations in which the fund can intervene and the amounts of aid granted by the fund.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has taken note of the european parliament's resolution on trade and economic relations between the eu and india. the 7th eu-india summit, held in helsinki on 13 october, reviewed trade and economic relations between the two parties. the summit focused on the report of the eu-india high level working group on trade. the working group was set up at the 2005 summit to examine ways of deepening and broadening bilateral trade and investment relations. the working group recommended the development of a comprehensive trade partnership through the negotiation of a comprehensive trade and investment agreement. the working group also considered that a substantial and comprehensive agreement would bring significant benefits to both the eu and india. the working group recommended that future negotiations cover the areas identified in the report, such as trade in goods and services, investment, trade promotion, public procurement, technical regulations, intellectual property and geographical indications, competition policy and dispute settlement. the discussions at the summit on this subject were constructive and supportive of the work of the working group. the eu-india summit welcomed the work of the working group and supported the proposal for a future comprehensive trade and investment agreement. the summit considered that both parties should promote the opening of negotiations for such an agreement. both sides are currently holding internal discussions on the matter. the summit also reaffirmed the commitment and commitment of both sides to the strategic partnership and close cooperation that has helped strengthen eu-india relations.
president of the council. mr president, the council adopted the conclusions on this global europe communication just yesterday at the general affairs and external relations council. the council also considers that bilateral contractual arrangements are likely to complement this multilateral trade system based on the wto. so they're not mutually exclusive, they're complementary. and that is one reason why the union is also becoming more active in the negotiation of bilateral trade agreements. parliament's support for the eu-india agreement is of course important, but there is still internal reflection on this mandate within the council.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council discussed the question of the secret detention centres of the cia at its meeting on 15 september. the ministers of the member states reiterated their commitment to combating terrorism effectively by all available legal means and instruments. terrorism itself is a threat to the value system based on the rule of law. the council reiterated that the fight against terrorism must respect human rights and respect humanitarian norms. thus, the representatives of the member states took note of the announcement by the united states administration that all prisoners would be treated in accordance with the provisions of the geneva convention and of the assurances that the international committee of the red cross would be allowed to visit the prisoners. the existence of secret detention centres where detainees are held in a legal vacuum is not in accordance with international humanitarian law or international criminal law. the ministers of the member states stated their intention to continue the dialogue with the united states, focusing on ensuring respect for human rights, including in the fight against terrorism. this dialogue has already been resumed. the views which i expressed strongly at the council meeting referred to above are reflected in the minutes of the meeting.
president of the council. mr president, the dinner to which the honourable member refers has not been held, at least not under the auspices of the presidency. we have no information on the type of dinners that the member states of the european union organise in their own external relations, and we have no opportunity to comment on them.
president of the council. mr president, unfortunately, the dinner held this autumn on 7 september during the finnish presidency, and the reference to it being held under the presidency and jointly in the european union, does not sound at all familiar. so i would like to point out again, as i did in the previous question, that the presidency has not organised such a dinner. perhaps you should also clarify the timetable, whether it is definitely this autumn. i replied to the first question and to the written question on behalf of the whole council, on the basis of what was discussed and agreed at the general affairs and external relations council meeting of 15 september 2006. i repeat again that the council is not responsible for the way in which the member states conduct their bilateral external relations with the various countries and is not aware of all activities.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, accession negotiations with turkey were opened because it was considered to meet the copenhagen political criteria to a sufficient degree. this means that turkey is expected to follow the reform process and to strive towards further improvements. as stated in the negotiating framework adopted by the council in october 2005, progress in the negotiations depends on turkey's progress in implementing the reforms. the council of the european union does not take a position on the alleged genocide of armenians in turkey. the evaluation of history is the job of historians. the union welcomes initiatives such as the conference on the armenian question in turkey and the proposal by prime minister erdoğan to set up a joint turkish-armenian commission of historians to investigate the tragic events of 1915. the union also strongly encourages turkey to do all it can to improve relations with the neighbouring state of armenia, in particular with regard to the opening of the border between the two countries, which would be very beneficial for the whole region. the european council last summer reaffirmed its commitment to enlargement. new criteria should not be set in the middle of the negotiation process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was not clear to me whether the minister thought that turkey had to recognise the genocide or whether this was something to be left to turkey and armenia to settle. so what is the minister's opinion on this? i am in favour of turkish membership, as is the swedish junilista, provided that turkey meets the requirements for membership. is it not worrying that modern turkey, which is a nation state founded in the early 1920s, would refuse to recognize something that was done by the ottoman empire years earlier? what does the minister say about that?
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the gsp+ system is a good system which gives advantages to third world countries in terms of their access to the markets of europe, which is extremely positive. however, there are a number of conditions for this. it is right, as commissioner mandelson says, that these countries should be encouraged and supported first and foremost. however, situations may arise where encouragement and support are not enough, but where indeed monitoring must also be strengthened and perhaps the means available should the conditions of agreements on workers' rights, etc. not be met, be used. we know that there are violations today and therefore want the commission to strengthen monitoring and, if necessary, use the means available to suspend a country. when such measures are taken, we also want parliament to be involved in the process so that we can give our views and work together to make the system work. this has to happen now. as several other speakers have pointed out, it is also important to review certain issues carefully in the run-up to the 2008 evaluation of the system. has it worked to its full potential, what are the shortcomings, what do we need to consider when renewing the system?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the council's common position is a victory for reason. competition in the services sector will be increased, while respecting the national autonomy of the member states. this is a good compromise. the junilist is against national protectionism, bureaucracy and the remnants of the old ways in europe. such restrictions impede competition, development and growth in the services sector. the junilist welcomes the fact that the council, like parliament, has chosen to reject the principle of the country of origin. it had certainly allowed for increased competition in some service sectors, but the disadvantages were disproportionate. the principle of the country of origin would have forced the member states to renounce national self-determination in some of the most important areas of society. of course, the laws, rules, and traditions that govern a country's territory are democratically established and must be followed by all who operate on its territory. the junilist therefore welcomes the council's common position on the services directive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by thanking all those involved and in particular the rapporteur, evelyn gebhardt, who has done a very good job. i shall concentrate on labour law during my one minute speech. i actually thought the first reading papers of parliament were better. i thought that the documents that evelyn gebhardt tried to get through the committee on the internal market were better than what we see today. i am, however, quite satisfied with what is said on labour law, collective agreements and the like, because there is also a statement from the commission. i heard that wurtz had brought up the vaxholms case, and i know that labour lawyers in sweden were extremely critical of mcgreevy at the time. i have spoken to the same labour lawyers today, who consider this statement to be very good in terms of labour law. i share their view and i think that the statement, combined with the report itself, is a good one. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is important and that this is parliament's proposal. parliament has been given full consideration of all its important points. that's why it's easy to vote yes today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a major step in principle is being taken today in the european parliament. perhaps the strongest lifelines for compromise are, in my view, the ppe-de group and the alde group. i would like to thank in particular malcolm harbour, who i think has made a great contribution, but also evelyn gebhardt, of course. a broad support has been created out of a political conflict by the european parliament. the directive on services is eagerly awaited by many. i want to remind you of the very strong establishment clause of the bill of rights. sweden's new government is now trying to simplify the rules on the labour market and make it more profitable to work. these efforts are now being furthered by this directive, which makes european markets more accessible. companies will now face fewer obstacles in one of the world's largest markets with great growth potential. the estimated 600 000 new jobs will be created. for the swedish labour market, with 70 per cent in the service sector, this means major improvements. the services directive, however, provides a basis, a first step, but not the last. of course, one can wish for much more, but i believe that the other steps will also come when the time is right. the excluded areas, which are too numerous, such as health, are still covered by the treaty rules, as the commissioner is fortunately aware. work in this area is thus continuing. thank you to everyone who contributed. thank you also for the commission's efforts to improve for businesses and consumers which hopefully lead to better quality at lower prices of certain services a win for citizens.
in writing. multilingualism is important for the free movement of people within the european union. that is why we have voted in favour of the report as a whole. however, we voted against proposals for some documents, including a language law for the eu, the creation of an institute for linguistic diversity and/or multilingualism and the creation of an interinstitutional working group to promote an amendment to the eu treaty with a view to creating a legal basis for the concept of 'respect for linguistic diversity'. as always, the european parliament's elephant disease comes into the picture. we would like to remind you that the member states have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education and that the content of education systems must be fully respected. it is therefore the responsibility of the member states to ensure that the inhabitants of their respective countries receive a full language training.
in writing. the junilista welcomes the services directive and believes that service companies, regardless of their country of origin, should not be discriminated against in any eu country. the debate on the services directive has centred on whether the country of origin principle should be the guiding principle of the directive or whether the host country's legislation should be fully applicable. the country of origin principle concerns important but very limited areas such as construction, installation and consultancy services. we welcome competition in these areas, but believe that it should be on a level playing field for all parties. we believe that swedish rules should apply on swedish territory. it is therefore gratifying that the council in its common position rejects the principle of the country of origin. the council's position is essentially a victory for the views of the junilist. competition in the services sector will be intensified. at the same time, the national autonomy of the member states will be respected, since the principle of country of origin is not the basis of the directive. it is positive that national monopolies in services will not be affected and that national legislation on labour law, social security legislation, collective agreements and trade union rights will not be affected.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in my two years in this parliament i have come across many reports dealing with everything from heaven to earth. the report we are debating is the worst i have seen so far. von wogau proposes one thing or another, but the main thrust is to militarise the eu by expanding the cfsp. he wants to increase the reach of the european security strategy. this opens the way for pre-emptive warfare of the kind we are seeing right now in the middle east, among other places. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. in other words, it is the taxpayers, in neutral sweden among others, who are to pay for military operations around the world. among the more imaginative proposals was the creation of a permanent mediterranean fleet to safeguard the eu's security interests in the region. the rapporteur also stresses the need for a constitution, as it would speed up the creation of a defence union. when sweden joined the eu in 1995, many swedish citizens were sceptical. one issue that was dismissed as an impossibility by the 'eu-graspers' was precisely the question of the militarisation of the union. today, more than ten years later, we see that it is not at all impossible, quite the opposite. i do not want to see my three sons and other young europeans join an eu army and i therefore call on my colleagues to vote against this report in tomorrow's vote.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking ana maria gomes for a very excellent report. this is a very important issue, both from the perspective of gender equality and from a democratic perspective. more than half of europe is made up of women. it is also important from a democratic point of view that women participate in the political decision-making process on an equal footing with men. the european policy on gender equality is based on welfare, a welfare that we must protect and build on. there are now huge gaps in both gender equality and welfare. it's about reconciling personal and professional life. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of employment and vocational training. we must help to ensure that women also have the conditions to participate in the political process. there is no welfare state where power is not shared equally between men and women. in the long run, a gender-equal welfare city is good for men, but in the short term, men may have to step back a little and give women a little more space. despite policy statements, recommendations, action programmes and specific legislation at national level, women are still underrepresented in politics. what is needed for us to be equal? i think, unfortunately, that the only solution is quotas and legislation. that shouldn't be necessary. men's participation in equality work could solve this major problem.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – this report is the result of enhanced cooperation, pursuant to rule 47, between two committees, libe and femm. i am therefore partly responsible for this report, specifically the parts dealing with trafficking of women and girls for sexual exploitation. seventeen years: that is the age of the typical victim of trafficking in europe. she is a young girl ending up in a brothel or in a so-called escort service in germany, austria or the netherlands. seventeen years: that is the same length of time that this parliament has been debating and producing papers on the issue of trafficking. people say that we should stick to what we have been doing in this parliament until now. but i say we have to stop the wishful thinking and the empty talk and resolutions and start dealing with this issue in a practical way. first, we have to identify the enemy. it is organised crime. while we have been talking, they have changed their agenda from weapons and drugs to the more profitable buying and selling of human beings for the sex industry. we are talking commodities. we are talking merchandise. we are talking regular markets where naked young girls are sold to the highest bidder. we are talking about girls who are sold at the age of 17 and at the age of 20 are worthless and thrown aside. i have met them and listened to unbelievable horrors of being raped 14 times a day. do we want to end this, or do we just want to go on talking? this organised crime industry feeds on the demands of ordinary men who believe they have a right to buy the body of a young girl as cheaply as possible. some people say trafficking in women and girls for sexual exploitation is already a crime, while prostitution is merely a matter of consenting adults making a business transaction. but more than 90% of the girls in the sex industry in germany, austria and the netherlands, where prostitution is legal, are from abroad. how can you know that this girl is doing it of her own free will? how can you be sure she is not smiling only because she knows someone will threaten her family back home if she does not comply? if you see this as just another job, how come you would not want your daughter to do it? or your own wife? the demand from men to buy sex is also a driving force in the trafficking business. if you agree with me that we need to really do something about trafficking, please join me in voting against amendments 23, 24 and 25 tomorrow. commissioner frattini, i am very grateful for your work, but we are still awaiting the study on how the laws on prostitution in europe affect the number of trafficking victims. that is needed if we are to find the best practice.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner frattini, members and audience! i would like to begin by thanking mrs bauer for a good report and the libe committee for its good cooperation and for the increased cooperation with the committee on women. i would also like to thank commissioner frattini. in the two and a half years that i have been in the european parliament, the issue of trafficking in human beings has been high on the political agenda, both here and in the member states and among our citizens. that's a good start. i am very pleased that we have a common view on condemning human trafficking, as we did at the world cup. i welcome the fact that we are now including other aspects of human trafficking and that we agree that what we are talking about is the modern day slave trade and that at least 80 percent are women and children. what concerns me is the lack of analysis of what happens to women and children once they are here in the eu. it is not helpful to be upset about crossborder trade if you do not see or want to talk about what happens next in the eu. the eu market and sex buyers buy women and children indiscriminately. when i meet women who have been trafficked, they tell me that they have been bought and sold to prostitution and to customers in many, many eu countries every day, all year round. it has been possible because we in the eu still dare not speak about the women and children who are here and now. it's time to change attitudes. the next step is to gain more knowledge. that 50 percent of children are sold into prostitution is a scandal! we should be ashamed every day that we are not doing more, because in the eu we are responsible for children's rights. i am proud to say that we in the pse group agree on how we want to proceed. we want to set goals, complete studies and get better knowledge. then maybe we can agree on what's needed in the short and long term. if you other parties want to know, i can tell you that we are opening up a debate on various solutions to trafficking in human beings in the member states, such as legalisation or the law on sex trafficking as in sweden. why is the ppe-de group afraid of university studies? i'd like to know. to be against it tonight is to say that we in the european parliament are concerned about human trafficking, but we stick our heads in the sand like the ostrich and do not take responsibility for what happens to all the women and children who are exploited here and now. many citizens say that we mostly talk here in the eu without setting concrete targets. that is why the pse group and i want to set the target of halving the number of people trafficked within the eu within 10 years. the pse group also supports amendments nos 1 to 22 and recital p. in the vote on recital o we shall abstain, since we do not take a position either for or against any particular inquiry. we shall vote differently on amendment no 25. i will vote for paragraph 1 (a) and against amendment no 25 based on my political experience of the view on sex trafficking and prostitution in sweden. the most important thing now is the halving target and the implementation of the planned eu 2007 survey. i would like to thank all citizens for this discussion. i would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate here in the house, as well as the president and commissioner frattini.
in writing. in today's resolution on the situation in gaza, which i voted for, i would like to call for a more balanced account of the reasons why israel, and the israeli army, are being forced to use methods which in themselves can be seen as unreasonable. the right to protect one's own citizens is fundamental and should be assessed as a whole, not as individual events.
in writing. we support the via baltica motorway project, provided that a sound environmental assessment is carried out.
in writing. the junilist welcomes the fact that the baltic sea is being raised on the political agenda. the report contains many positive elements, including that due attention should be paid to the environmental problems in the area. we also take a very positive view of paragraph 13, which states that member states should be allowed to introduce stricter environmental rules than those proposed by the eu. however, we do not believe that the eu should finance the via baltica motorway project. it is also proposed to extend cooperation with europol. we can support this if it will only improve the exchange of information. but this cannot mean that we get a european arrest warrant or that one state's police can carry out searches in another state. we have found that the positive aspects of the report outweigh the negative aspects, and in today's vote we have supported the report as a whole.
in writing. the main objective of the report is to emphasise that the baltic sea is an extra sensitive sea with brackish waters. paragraph 13, which gives member states the right to have stricter legislation to protect the baltic sea, and paragraph 11, which requires environmental impact assessments for all energy projects, are crucial to saving the baltic sea. that is why i am voting in favour of the report, despite the negative reports about increased border controls and more unsustainable infrastructure projects in the region.
in writing. the report we are voting on today is a wish list for the advocates of a militarized european state. fortunately, it is only an own-initiative report, but it is nevertheless a clear signal to the other eu institutions in which direction the majority of the european parliament wants the eu to develop. one of the most absurd ideas put forward is the establishment of a permanent mediterranean fleet. the committee also calls for the establishment of a special budget line for military operations and for an attempt to revive the failed constitutional proposal. as always when the european parliament has a say, it is intended to give more power to the members of this house. we have also taken a position on amendments calling for an eu-led coastguard. the developments described in the report are very worrying and should be a wake-up call, even for the most committed advocates of eu statecraft. given the uncertainties we face today, as a result of the many conflicts going on around the world, one should ask whether the creation of an eu army is the right way to tackle the problems. whether or not a nation state should send troops must always be decided by national parliaments, never by the united states of the european union. we have therefore voted against the report, including most of the amendments tabled to it.
in writing. the eu's common foreign and security policy must not become a competitor to nato. it is therefore gratifying that the european parliament has taken a clear stand in favour of strengthening the transatlantic link and highlighting the importance of closer cooperation with nato. today, there is a common foreign and security policy within the eu. the report is, however, a step towards deeper foreign and security policy cooperation which could mean that sweden loses the possibility of deciding its own foreign and security policy. however, the member states' own military resources should continue to form the basis of this cooperation. it is regrettable that the report expresses support for the european arrest warrant, which means that swedish citizens can be extradited to other eu countries without the possibility of judicial review in sweden. the report also contains language supporting the constitution. this is why i voted against the final vote, even though i share the report's intention to strengthen eu cooperation with nato.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on inheritance and wills (a6-0359/2006) to clarify the rules on the choice of law. however, since the report calls for a harmonised law on inheritance and wills, we would like to emphasize that harmonisation of substantive law is not desirable, but must, in accordance with the ec treaty, be and remain a purely national competence.
in writing. the report would create legal chaos and would pit national legal norms and practices against each other if its ideas were to become reality. the junilist is a determined opponent of common civil and criminal law at eu level. the consequences of any approval of the proposal are, among other things, that swedish citizens will lose their unconditional right (taking into account the six-month rule) to divorce. an example of this is the following: spouses who are swedish citizens take up residence in malta. one of the spouses then moves back to sweden and files for divorce with a swedish court. under current swedish law, the spouse can obtain a divorce under swedish law. the proposal, however, implies that the law of malta should apply instead. this may result in no divorce being granted at all, since divorce is prohibited not only in malta but in a number of other european countries. the swedish citizen thus loses both the maintenance of his children and the right to half of the spouses' joint assets. this is totally unacceptable in the junilista's view. legislation in this area expresses national, religious and social values. these are not to be run over by the eu. as usual, we find that subsidiarity and pluralism are only in the talk, while the reality is a ruthless pursuit of equality.
in writing. the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings has already been signed by 30 states. the convention has been ratified by, among others, moldova and romania, and ratification is under way in sweden. the convention applies to all forms of trafficking in human beings, whether national or international, or linked to organised crime. the convention thus complements the provisions of the united nations convention against organised crime. the junilist believes that the eu should respect the national and international agreements which its member states have already signed. we believe that the conclusion of legally binding agreements is a matter for the national parliaments of each country. we support the fight against trafficking in human beings and we congratulate the governments of romania and moldova for their courage in ratifying this hugely important convention. we therefore consider that the eu's call is not necessary. the sovereign nations of europe have already taken up the fight among themselves without supranational interference.
in writing. the eu's communication policy must not be about trying to sell a united states of europe to the citizens. the eu institutions must only provide accurate and factual business and financial reports and other information, such as exchange projects in higher education. nor is it the case that the more knowledge an individual voter has, the more he or she is in favour of the creation of a european superstate. the view of intergovernmental or supranational cooperation for the eu is based on values and not on expertise. we also do not believe that eu parties should be initiated and financed from brussels to initiate a dialogue with the electorate on eu issues. political interest in eu issues must be built up from below in political parties and organisations. the report also stresses that communication should be based on initiatives promoted through communication channels such as cultural programmes (for example, the awarding of literature or film prizes), sports events, etc. we reiterate our position that such ways of promoting the eu breathe contempt for the citizens. this is not the way the union is supposed to inform people of its existence and its activities.
mr president, i would like to thank you. iran is a nation with thousands of years of cultural history, a country with great wealth and much to offer its people and the world. but what does the current regime offer its people? repression, imprisonment, unemployment and censorship! president ahmadinejad took office on 3 august 2005, and since then the situation has worsened. the current government offers its people cruel corporal punishment. 600 children will join their mothers in prison. prisoners may have three square meters to move around, but they are lucky compared to those on death row. iran even manages to execute more than the united states. in the last 12 months, 111 death sentences have been carried out. the most flagrant violation of the convention on the rights of the child, to which iran is a signatory, is the death penalty for minors. a regime that does not allow a young person to repent and improve has no future, it will fall. iran has great potential, but if the regime pursues the persecution of academics, journalists and political activists instead of exploiting their potential, the country and its people will continue to suffer. iran has had many hands extended to it. the european parliament gives another one today: release the political prisoners, journalists and representatives of minorities mentioned in today's resolution. these are not big demands, but if they are implemented they can pave the way for a better dialogue. why is the regime so afraid of women? let them participate, be elected, work, live and act on the same terms as men. the potential for development in society is doubled. there is hope. already today, un delegations are being allowed to inspect various activities, and some political prisoners have been released. the new government must, however, seize the opportunity to choose the path that opens up the right of women to democracy and to the outside world. it's the future!
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is no respect for the principle of subsidiarity in this house. there is never any proposal to transfer political power back from the eu to the member states. however, there are sound economic arguments for increased eu action in research. a pure market economy entails too little research because the returns of research efforts accrue to everyone while the costs have to be borne by individual firms. that is why it pays for taxpayers to fund basic research. if more countries join together, it will be even more socioeconomically profitable because a greater share of the proceeds will then go back to the taxpayers. it is a great idea to set up the european research council and to facilitate the mobility of researchers within the eu. but we must say no to the bureaucratic and the bureaucratic. what is needed is more research resources, transparency and free movement. this is a debate on research governance, but it gives greater scope to politicians, bureaucrats and new eu institutions. finally, let me remind you of the grotesque allocation of resources. the seventh framework programme accounts for one-seventh of the cost of the eu's agricultural policy. research funding is vital for the future of europe. agricultural policies, on the other hand, waste resources, suck out europe's consumers and worsen world poverty. doubling research funding, halving agricultural subsidies and cutting the eu levy by 40% is a mercy to be quietly begged for.
mr president, i do not want to spoil the party here tonight. i think we can be proud of what we have achieved – the european research council, the search for excellence in different programmes – but i think it is necessary to state tonight that this is not enough. it is not enough if we compare it with what we should be able to do at european level, and it is important for the representatives of the council as well as for you, commissioner, to remember that and to underline that we cannot wait for another seven years to step up the efforts we need in order to keep up with other parts of the world if we are to be the world’s leading knowledge economy. as a shadow rapporteur i am proud of what we have achieved from our side. we wanted to make it easier for smes to have access to research programmes, and we have achieved that. we wanted to have better funding for smes, and we have achieved that. we wanted to ensure that universities were able to get into the projects without losing money through indirect costs, and we have achieved that. we also wanted less bureaucracy, and we have achieved that. we wanted to free up opportunities to use intellectual property rights, and we have achieved that. we are happy about what we have achieved, but that demonstrates that we need to take further steps.
the junilista believes that it is totally unacceptable that people with disabilities are faced with prejudice, negative discrimination and limited opportunities. this is not in keeping with our view of the eu as a union of values. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 is therefore a success. it clarifies something that should be taken for granted, not least because we have a single internal market, namely that disabled people should have the same rights as other citizens when travelling by air. sweden is a pioneer in the field of disability rights. a far-reaching eu legislation, with detailed views on how disabled people should be treated, could have called into question the successful swedish reforms of the 1970s and 1980s. let us therefore avoid detailed regulation and instead clearly state that society, industry and the public in general must treat disabled people on an equal footing with other citizens. in conclusion, let us devote ourselves to self-criticism. the eu institutions are presenting reports on disability rights, but at the same time they cannot ensure that all eu buildings are fully adapted to the needs of disabled people. the european union's websites and documents are also not accessible in formats suitable for disabled people, especially the visually impaired. when will the quaestors of the european parliament and the relevant eu authorities act on these pressing and immediate issues?
in writing. i have chosen to vote against the report because, in particular, romania cannot be considered to meet the copenhagen criteria. the problems of corruption must be considered particularly serious, as they risk undermining the rule of law and, above all, the democratic system. instead, it would have been reasonable to postpone entry until at least 2008 to ensure that reform work continues and reaches an acceptable level. once membership is complete, both the incentives for countries to join and the eu's ability to exert pressure diminish.
in writing. junilista has repeatedly pointed out that the eu needs to be enlarged very urgently, but that this can only happen when the candidate countries are ready for it, i.e. when they meet all the accession criteria. unfortunately, we have recently seen an unfortunate development, where negotiations have started without the candidate countries being reasonably close to fulfilling the conditions for membership. both bulgaria and romania face major problems, particularly in the areas of the rule of law and corruption. the inclusion of these countries as member states at this stage is therefore contrary to eu principles. these countries would have needed to develop much more before membership became a reality, a process which could take several years. however, junilista believes that once a country becomes a member of the eu, the same rules apply as for the other member states and their citizens. the eu shall have a single labour market with free movement of workers. however, the accession treaties provide for the right of each member state to introduce transitional rules in this area for a limited period of time, and this must be respected. however, we do not believe that sweden should exercise this right. we believe that bulgaria and romania are not ready to join in 2007 and we have therefore voted against the two reports.
in writing. we do not share the rapporteur's view that it is urgent to create a european system of social protection statistics at eu level. this type of important task allows member states to cooperate without the involvement of the eu institutions.
in writing. we would have voted against amendments nos 11, 20 and 21 if they had not been included in the block vote, but since the guidoni report attaches great importance to safety and security, we have voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. we regret that the constitution has not been able to enter into force and that, as a result, there is no co-decision in the area of justice and home affairs, which is of a very important and far-reaching nature. however, we are very much reluctant to resolve the current situation by using the bridge instrument and have therefore decided to abstain in the final vote on the resolution on the progress of the eu in creating an area of freedom, security and justice (b6-0625/2006).
in writing. the global fight against hiv/aids is a highly urgent issue that requires a comprehensive international commitment. however, we believe that hiv/aids should not be dealt with within the framework of eu cooperation. we believe that the fight against hiv/aids should be carried out by the member states of the union and within the framework of the world health organisation. the junilista is seeking limited eu cooperation. we oppose the union's influence and competence in matters already dealt with by other international organisations. however, this resolution is mainly an opinion on how aids should be combated. we have therefore voted in favour of the resolution as a whole and the amendments which favour reproductive health care.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the original purpose of the reach was to protect people and the environment. the positive impact of knowledge and development of better use of chemicals would also bring economic benefits. the lancet published a report in november showing that 200 common chemicals cause brain damage, concentration problems, behavioral problems and lower intelligence. how can we have a society based on knowledge, innovation and development when we unnecessarily allow chemicals that lower intelligence and make it difficult for us to concentrate? ladies and gentlemen, we have had many long meetings, and it has been confirmed time and again that a qualified majority in this parliament takes it for granted that consumer products containing dangerous substances should always be replaced by less dangerous alternatives when they are available. we have repeatedly agreed that chemical safety reports should be introduced for all low-volume chemicals. we have repeatedly stressed the importance of openness and transparency and laughed at the absurdity of the secret board of directors, which is to take important decisions on the future of chemicals, having secret financial interests. we have taken it for granted that companies should be responsible for their products and have also taken decisions which would give small businesses a fair chance. but now, in the hour of need, now at the eleventh hour, a majority of you have chosen to ignore these goals and instead run into the precarious arms of the german chemical industry. despite the fact that the environmental committee called for major improvements to reach, the last trilateral meeting was all about deterioration. it was the ppe-de group that dealt with the chemical industry's affairs, but why did the others accept that game? reach should now be renamed risk, registration but non-substitution of chemicals. last time we voted on reach, the social democrats and the liberals took a stand with the right on the registration bit. this time you settled for the whole reach. that time sacconi said that a deal is like an apple... it must be picked when it's ripe. after the debate, you gave me the apple. a year later, it's a completely unappetizing slimeball. so i brought you a new apple to give you. save this for a few years until the review of reach. it will then stink and rot and, when you review it, remind you to settle with another majority. or better yet, deal with us on the alternative compromise. it is symbolized by this apple core. let us see this apple core as a symbol of a reach that grows and takes root, a reach from which we can reap public health and environmental benefits for decades to come, instead of selling fall fruit to the people of europe. you choose. do you want a reach apple that rots or a core that grows? in politics, you don't win anything without taking risks. dare to take this last chance now and have a positive majority in parliament and the negotiation with the council before the curtain opens. we can never get anything worse than the council's common position, but we can get something so much better. one advantage of compromise is that it will at least be more democratic than this rotten deal made behind closed doors.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the vote on wednesday marks the end of a long process with important contributions from many quarters. i think we should pay attention to commissioner margot wallström, who put forward the proposal, and her democratic innovation with the big internet consultation, which did an enormous amount to improve the reach proposal itself. we must pay attention to the members who have worked hard for many nights and with whom we have had tough discussions, langen in the committee on industry, the rapporteur nassauer and others, not least the rapporteur-general guido sacconi, and the commissioners, both günter verheugen and dimas, who have done a great deal to prepare this proposal for the vote. and yet i stand here with very mixed feelings. if i were to sum up, i could say proud but not satisfied, to use a swedish expression that has been used in recent years. i am proud to have been part of this work as rapporteur on the committee on industry. so i started with three themes. firstly, the proposal must be strengthened in relation to environmental components, in particular in relation to substitution. secondly, the proposal needs to be clarified. there was a tremendous amount of ambiguity and overlap with other legislation and we have now removed 'paper and pulp' and 'minerals and ores', which are some important areas that have no place in this proposal. we've also simplified reach, which has been a huge benefit to small businesses. the proposal for one registration per substance, 'one substance one registration', i think will mean a great deal in the future. my starting point was therefore that these three steps - reinforcing, clarifying and simplifying - were good for european industry, for european consumers and for european citizens. the starting point of having a strong policy that combines market considerations with environmental considerations is, i believe, a very important success factor. i am disappointed in three points. firstly, i think we could have used the opportunity to provide consumers with clearer information to meet increasing environmental and consumer demands. it would have been possible, because we've done the work and we've taken the cost. the compromise that now exists does not take full advantage of those advantages, and i find that very sad. i would like to ask how the commission and the council are going to solve the 0.1% requirement, i.e. whether the car is to be considered partly dangerous or the dangerous component in the car is to be considered partly dangerous. it's important to clarify. the requirement for substitution is another issue. why couldn't we have gone one step further with the substances we call cmrs, which are both carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductive? my third question concerns the principle of responsibility, the 'duty of care'. it has been in european tort law since roman times and is not a new concept. i think it would have been good not to have it just as a statement of principle in the reasons, but to have it in the legal text. unfortunately, we have not yet reached the end of these points. i have a fourth question, namely that it is important that the developing countries now have the chance to use this information so that it does not create a barrier to trade. so to sum up, proud but not satisfied. the big job remains, and to quote an american speaker a few weeks ago: we didn't cross the rubicon to sit and fish. ladies and gentlemen, the big job is left after the vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my father worked for over 20 years in the heavy chemical industry in sundsvall, northern sweden. sometimes he would come home at night with aches in his arms and legs. at times, he was almost paralyzed and had difficulty moving them. acute metal poisoning, the doctor said it was. my father is now retired and some of the heavy metals that affected him are now banned, but millions of workers in europe are still affected by chemicals in the workplace. according to a finnish study, 32 million eu citizens are exposed to carcinogenic chemicals at their workplace every day. it's for all these workers that we need a strong reach. we also need a strong reach for all of us consumers and for the environment, which has already been addressed in several very good speeches here earlier. but that is precisely why i am so disappointed that the socialist group and the liberals have also sided with the ppe-de and the chemical industry. this proposal fails workers, consumers and the environment. guido sacconi, you know what the workers are asking for, you know it better than any of us. the workers want a strong reach, where dangerous chemicals are replaced, where there are better alternatives, just to take an example. yet you have left the basic principle behind. why, because the power and the loyalty of the ppe-de are more important? i don't know, man. we in the left group cannot support this. why would you do that? some specific examples: this compromise does not include a chemical safety report for low-volume substances. this means that thousands of chemicals will continue to be spread without us knowing their real risks. there is no legally binding principle of liability, and then we should remember that this was the very idea behind reach, namely that the responsibility for chemicals should be on the companies and not on the authorities. the big companies can continue to keep their chemical facts secret once the ppe-de has gotten their intellectual property rights through. small businesses will be the big losers, unable to benefit from increased publicity. the obvious requirement that member states should be able to have more far-reaching legislation has also not been welcomed. in particular, what had been a win for public health and the environment is now empty, namely the substitution principle. this principle, which says that dangerous chemicals should be replaced when less dangerous alternatives are available, is now so limited that only a very small number of chemicals will be phased out. it will mean that thousands of dangerous chemicals that are carcinogenic, hormonal and reproductive disruptors will remain in our midst. we on the left want to save the reach. that is why we have put forward a joint reach package with the greens, with amendments calling for stronger legislation in all these areas. to minimise animal testing, we also call for investment in completely new animal-free methods of 'toxygenomics'. we are not making unreasonable demands, as much of this was supported by a majority in this house a year ago. finally, on wednesday, we will vote on what will become the world's most comprehensive chemical law. there is still a chance to save reach, and i urge you - especially you socialists who say you are protecting workers and the environment - to throw this ppe-de agreement in the trash and vote to save reach.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament could have taken a more environmentally friendly line and stood up to the council in the negotiations on the chemicals directive. the major political groups, however, have chosen to bow to the council by accepting the poor compromise on the table. the compromise does away with the principle of substitution and in practice favours only one interest, namely that part of the european chemical industry which is outdated and lacks a long-term perspective. this is not acceptable. the most surprising thing is that the socialist group has chosen to support this compromise. the truth is that the socialist group has shown a remarkable lack of will. it has stood up to the conservative group and to the short-term special interests of the chemical industry. the compromise favours the old-fashioned part of europe's chemical industry, while europe's citizens and its modern industry are among the losers. the junilista will therefore support the green proposals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur and my colleague, guido sacconi. i think i've caused him a little trouble along the way by asking for more all the time. more substitution, more information and data safety sheets for low-volume chemicals and more chemicals that should be registered. guido, thank you for your work and thank you for not losing your temper every time i've made my demands. i also want to thank everyone else that i've worked with on the reach project. together, we've worked hard to make sure we have a strong reach. but the opposition, not least from the political right here in parliament and from the chemical industry, has been very strong. the compromise now reached must be judged as a success in the light of this fierce opposition, even though it does not meet the requirements which i really think should be imposed on substitution and information. because, ladies and gentlemen, politics is the art of the possible. we cannot have everything we want, but we must go as far as possible on the path we want to take, and we will do so with the compromise that is now on the table. it is the best we can get and it involves much better regulations than the chemical regulations that exist in sweden and the eu today. with reach, the responsibility for testing chemicals is given to importers and producers. we will have more knowledge and information on chemicals, and the need to replace dangerous substances will be strengthened compared to the present situation. there's no evidence that we'd get a stronger reach by delaying the process. the fact that germany will take over the presidency of the eu after the new year and the german government, eagerly encouraged by the german chemical industry, has been the main opponents of a strong reach, also speaks against this. that is why we swedish social democrats will take our responsibility tomorrow and vote for the compromise. we have come as far as we can go now and we should not risk it by delaying the process. in seven years, when reach is up and running, we can come back with our demands for further tightening.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i feel that there is a great eagerness in this parliament to approve everything between heaven and earth. everything from the very big issues like a chemical regulation to the small issue like the standardization of windshield wipers comes up on our table. we are now debating the financing instrument for eu development cooperation. i am convinced that all my colleagues on the committee on development want to see poverty in the world reduced so that vulnerable people around the world can live a sustainable life. i think the same of most of my colleagues in this house. i would, however, urge them to stop and think about a strike. is the eu doing all it can to reduce poverty on a global scale? it is very difficult for me to understand how one moment you can sit and advocate eu-led aid, and the next moment you support subsidies for eu agriculture or a harmful fisheries agreement with a poor african country where corruption is a major problem. if we really want to help the vulnerable poor people of the world, we should probably start at the other end. let us abolish the eu's common agricultural policy, let us abolish the eu's protectionist trade policy, let us stop protecting european non-competitive production. my proposals are not necessarily the solution to all the world's problems, but i think they are a good start.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have reached an agreement and it is now important that this is implemented in a good way. i would naturally wish that the member states were obliged to take action when they see a tendency to exceed the limit values rather than when it is already a fact that we have destroyed groundwater too much. but, after all, this compromise has its advantages. i am particularly pleased about the possibility for countries to ban dangerous chemicals throughout their territory to protect their drinking water. i think that's a good addition. we should remember that climate change may also destroy groundwater even more in the future. it's important that we address that, because when floods come and wash through, like, toxic warehouses in factories and it ends up in our waterways and then sinks down to groundwater, so that's another problem. first, the groundwater directive, but we have to solve the climate problem if we are to have any chance of protecting groundwater in the future.
in writing. the junilist believes that it is essential that consumer protection in the eu is adequate. however, the financing of the measures to be taken is primarily a national matter. we therefore consider that the budget line of eur 156.8 million for the current consumer policy programme is not justified. we are also strongly critical of the proposal to provide financial support for the development of master courses in consumer affairs within the framework of an integrated european degree. the eu institutions are not, of course, to control the type of training provided in the member states or to finance it. we should therefore have voted against this report.
in writing. the junilist is for cross-border police cooperation. it is necessary to deal with international crime today, but this has been successfully done for decades by the international police agency interpol. however, junilistan is very sceptical about the fact that law enforcement is conducted at a supranational level. we are in favour of intergovernmental cooperation and against common legislation. the commission proposes the creation of asset recovery offices in the member states, which are directly subject to ec legislation and administration. this means further interference with the legal systems of the national member states and a weakening of interpol's respected position. the junilista therefore votes against the report as a whole.
in writing. the junilists consider that transboundary animal diseases are an important area of cooperation within the union, but routine financing of the control of animal diseases is not a matter for the union. we would point out that it is ultimately the responsibility of the member states to combat animal diseases and zoonoses within their territory, both in terms of measures and in terms of finances. we therefore particularly oppose amendment no 6 by the committee on agriculture, which would allow member states to submit national programmes financed by the eu, depending on their particular circumstances. we are voting against the report as a whole, on the assumption that the european union will have to take on a major financial responsibility for the fight against animal diseases. the union's treasury is not a cornucopia of money which can finance measures in the agricultural sector all the time. sweden, for example, has a long and successful history of fighting salmonella within its borders and is proof that member states can do this themselves without the need for european union funding.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the harmful effects of alcohol cost the eu €125 billion a year. this is equivalent to 1.3% of eu gdp. alcohol is not just any product, and therefore television advertising for alcohol must be restricted. children who watch tv during the day should not be exposed to alcohol advertising. i therefore hope that parliament will support amendment no 169 tomorrow. the directive we are discussing here is a minimum directive. the idea is that countries should be able to have more restrictive advertising rules, but in practice this is not possible. in sweden, for example, we have banned advertising to children, but tv 3 and channel 5 can still circumvent these rules by broadcasting from the uk. it is unreasonable broadcasts aimed at a swedish audience should follow swedish rules in the same way that broadcasts aimed at a british audience should follow british rules. i therefore hope that parliament will vote in favour of the amendments which give the receiving country the possibility of influencing the advertising content of the broadcasts, including nos 246 and 153 tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i recognize that we need a new regulation of the directive because of the developments that have taken place in the audiovisual field, not least technologically, over the last 20 years. however, there are negative elements both in the commission proposal and in the amendments to the directive. the directive risks, in several respects, leading to a deterioration in consumer protection in general and in the impact of television on minors in particular. just as technological advances have advanced, so the amount and variety of advertising has increased over the past two decades. advertising is everywhere today, even directed at minors and children. there must be a balance between the amount of advertising allowed and the groups of consumers to which advertising may be directed. although this is a mini-directive, many of us socialists are too strict about all advertising in children's programmes and advertising directed at children. we understand why the commission has banned advertising in religious programmes, but we question why those who watch this type of programme are considered more important to protect from commercial influence than children. children cannot distinguish advertising from other programmes and therefore cannot understand the underlying interests underlying the advertising. i, and many others, are against advertising directed at children.
we see here a conflict of objectives in a difficult question in modern technology between the interests of freedom versus the interests of protection. on the one hand, it is difficult to censor programmes broadcast from other member states, but on the other hand we believe that each member state must have its own cultural and moral autonomy in matters relating to alcohol and tobacco advertising, advertising directed at children, rules on discrimination and pornography, and so on. each member state must be able to legislate in these areas. technological developments in high-speed broadband internet and mobile telephony make possible tv-like media services where the moral code is difficult to monitor. but here too it is essential that member states, if they so wish, can legislate to regulate child pornography and copyright. the matter is undoubtedly very complex, but we believe that sweden's position in the council should have been better heard at the november council meeting. we do, however, consider that the proposal of the committee on culture is better than the council's and therefore support this report.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is a constant stream of exhortations from various eu institutions to member states on the importance of reducing public spending. at the same time, this house is constantly demanding increased expenditure at eu level. this is baroque. member states' public spending is directed at schools, health care, research, infrastructure and support for vulnerable groups in society. the bulk of eu spending goes to insane agricultural policies, misguided structural funds and funding of eu institutions that should have been shut down long ago. the expenditure of the member states is subject to continuous democratic scrutiny. officials who are guilty of inefficiency, negligence, fraud or corruption are not granted immunity and are often dismissed. politicians who fail to meet the citizens' demands for honesty and efficiency are removed in democratic elections. the court of auditors is the body responsible for auditing eu expenditure, but it has not yet been able to issue a clean audit report. when olaf detects crimes, they are not prosecuted. this chamber grants a general discharge regardless of how eu budget funds are used, and politicians never lose elections in their home country because of mismanagement of eu money. in short, the member states have some democratic and effective control over the use of taxpayers' money, but the eu institutions and this house do not.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs bachelot-narquin, for her excellent work, but also the shadow rapporteurs who have come in, mr schroedter and others. i would also like to thank the council, which is not present, for listening and the commission for being constructive during the trialogue. others have spoken of the improvements made, for example in cofinancing, small labour markets and so on. there were a lot of improvements. i would like to stress what mrs bachelot-narquin said, that this does not solve all the problems, that it is a european added value, that it does not take away from the member states, the regions or the companies their responsibility to face globalisation. this is an added value. do not think that this fund will solve all the problems, but the bulk of them must be solved in the member states. but it's an important contribution. secondly, it is not a question of supporting enterprises or supporting specific regions, we have other support for that. this is about reintegrating workers who have been unduly affected by globalisation so that they can re-enter the labour market as quickly as possible. fortunately, this will come into effect as early as 1 january. i want to thank everyone for their cooperation.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to all those involved who have worked hard and dedicated and a special thank you to the greens and sartori for this institute now finally being set up and starting its important work. it is an important milestone for all of us who work for women and men in an equal society. it is also a milestone in strengthening children's rights, because the situation of children is largely affected by the rights of mothers and women. but as much as i am happy about this step towards establishing an equality institute, i am equally disappointed by the fact that in 2006 a special institute for women's self-evident rights is needed. that we have not come any further in recognizing the right of half of humanity to live their lives on equal terms with the other half of humanity. we talk a lot in the eu about democracy and human rights, but democratic and human rights must also apply to women. it cannot be considered democratic that large sections of the population believe that women can be treated as commodities in a market and that society cannot be responsible for women's right to their own bodies. it is about women's right to be free from abuse and beatings, that political power is still largely the power of men, that women earn less than men for the same work, and so on. i really hope that all of us in the plenary vote will support the establishment of the institute for gender equality as a major and important step towards the future, so that we can really talk about democracy and human rights, equally for everyone, regardless of gender.
mr. speaker, and all the members who are still awake! equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the eu and one of its central tasks. in all its activities, the eu shall seek to eliminate inequalities between men and women. however, despite much progress in the area of gender equality, several evaluations show that positive developments are very slow. the eu lacks the capacity to compile analyses and to develop good solutions in the field of gender mainstreaming and gender equality. by creating a european institute for gender equality, the eu and the member states are highlighting the high priority of the issue and the political will to do more to tackle the current inequalities. today, as a social democrat mep, i am very proud that european cooperation is being used to further the fight against gender discrimination. it is now important that all the member states make use of the institute and that statistics and information are submitted. this is a very big responsibility for the member states. finally, i am pleased that a new member state, lithuania and the city of vilnius, are receiving this institute. i do not think that the principle of proximity is relevant here, since all the member states of the european union are central. i wish them well and i thank the rapporteurs lissy gröner and sartori and the commission.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i ride a bicycle – that is enough for me! herr talman! tack till föredraganden groote för ett bra arbete. vi i gue/ngl och de gröna vill dock göra några grundläggande förbättringar. detta på tre punkter. vi vill att denna lagstiftning ska träda i kraft tidigare än den kompromiss som har gjorts med rådet. både miljön och de europeiska konsumenterna skulle vinna på det. vi vill också ha hårdare utsläppskrav för dieselbilar och drivmedelsneutralitet för diesel och bensin. ett tredje viktigt ändringsförslag är stadsjeeparna – vi vill inte ha några undantag för dem. avslutningsvis vill jag också plädera för johannes bloklands ändringsförslag, som går ut på att medlemsländerna ska kunna ha hårdare lagstiftning på området. det borde vara en självklarhet när vi fattar beslut, men tyvärr är det inte så. i det fallet bifall även till ind/dem.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank elmar brok and alexander stubb for the debate on the enlargement process and their reports. i would like to begin by commenting on mr brok's thoughts in point f, that enlargement must not undermine the political character of the project. i come from sweden, which has clearly stated in all studies that continued enlargement is one of the most important issues for the eu. my concern today is that we are not speaking clearly about further enlargement and turkey's future membership. many members of parliament are against turkey's membership, as was already clear when the ppe-de called for a closed vote on turkey's membership negotiations. it was too many people like me who thought it was unthinkable that politicians should not dare to stand up for their views in front of their electorate and the citizens of europe. on several occasions during the past year, views have been expressed which have led me to wonder whether there is any will to continue enlargement, even if we resolve the key issues high on our agenda. we need a new constitution, even if there are more members, for modern decision-making. we need a reformed agricultural policy for the new jobs of the future and a sustainable europe. we need a bigger budget for future funding. i wonder what mr brok means when he says in paragraph 11 that the union can only function if all its members share a common set of values based on a european identity. am i to take that as closing the doors to turkey? my group, the pse, has tabled amendment no 29, which we call on everyone to support. we are in full agreement that turkey must meet the demands we made at the outset on cyprus, on the kurds, on human rights and on all the others. but let us be clear and separate the different agendas.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the eu enlargement process is a great success, from 6 countries to 27. we have seen the shape of a new europe. to start hesitating now and talk about 'tiredness' of continuing enlargement would be going in the wrong direction. of course, the criteria of democracy, human rights and the proper functioning of the rule of law must be met. we have also seen the power with which the former eastern and central europe has changed. it is true that the eu needs new forms of decision-making, but the eu must not create new conditions for the countries that are now seeking membership. mr commissioner, i am personally concerned about the forces within the european union which are trying to make it difficult for turkey to become a member of the union in the future. europe as a whole must be our vision of the future - including turkey.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the rapporteur said that if these amendments were accepted, there would be a compromise. however, we do not know. if we approve the amendments, the council may well accept them, but we will not know until coreper has taken a decision. there is therefore no obvious link between accepting the amendments and conciliation. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. we choose to support the compromise proposed as it represents a clear improvement on the current chemicals legislation. furthermore, we consider that a settlement would have been risky, as we believe that it would have likely resulted in a weaker reach.
in writing. in today's vote on the second reading of reach, i abstained. i cannot support the weakening of parliament's position, which the environment committee adopted in october, as the council has forced it to do. my criticism of the settlement is based on three main points: - the substitution principle does not cover all chemicals, and many chemicals will continue to be exempted from the substitution requirement, including carcinogens, provided they are under 'adequate control'. - the right to information is weakened by the fact that fewer chemicals are covered by the information requirement, which will apply in higher concentrations than the ep environment committee would have wished. - the principle of liability is not written into the law itself but is moved to the preamble. this is particularly serious for the many chemicals with low or no information requirements. my abstention is not a failure but a sign of my dissatisfaction with the council's position. i do not wish to criticise the rapporteur, mr sacconi, but to congratulate him on his long and excellent work on a difficult subject. today's vote paves the way for reach to enter into force by the end of 2007. now, too, my work and that of many others to further improve the law begins.
in writing. junilista is committed to limiting eu cooperation to genuinely crossborder issues. these include the internal market and a number of environmental issues. we are convinced that a strong chemicals directive represents a long-term competitive advantage for swedish and european industry. we are therefore critical of the watered-down compromise proposed by the ppe-de, pse and alde groups. the compromise means that the principle of substitution is practically abolished. nor is there a legally binding principle of liability which makes clear that the burden of responsibility should lie with the undertakings rather than with the authorities of the member states. the requirement that member states should be able to have more far-reaching chemicals legislation has also not been welcomed. the compromise may be a victory for the old-fashioned part of the chemical industry, but it is a loss for modern and progressive companies, for public health and for our common environment. we have voted against the majority compromise on the basis of the positions set out above. we have chosen to support the more environmentally friendly option, i.e. the compromise package put forward by the gue/ngl and greens/efa groups.
in writing. the junilist believes that the whole idea of the european year is unnecessary and not something that the eu taxpayers should be funding. the allocation of eur 10 million for the european year of intercultural dialogue is totally unacceptable. the benefits of this are difficult, perhaps even impossible, to see. we are voting against the amendment in the report, in line with our previous position, which was to vote against the report at first reading.
in writing. we voted against the report on the proposal for a directive on audiovisual media services. common eu rules on television and other audiovisual media are needed in an increasingly borderless europe. we believe, however, that the directive must guarantee a high level of consumer protection, particularly in relation to advertising aimed at children and advertising of alcoholic beverages. in addition, the recipient country should be able to influence the content of the programmes specifically targeted to it. the result of the vote means that the rules on advertising have been liberalized too much. in addition, our swedish ban on advertising to children and alcohol is now at risk of being undermined, which is unacceptable.
in writing. the junilista rejects the commission's proposal. the council dealt with the matter in november before the european parliament's first reading in december. a compromise was agreed, but it was not supported by seven countries, including sweden. the so-called country of origin principle, which means that tv companies must follow the rules of the country from which they broadcast, regardless of the country in which the programmes are subsequently shown, is questioned by sweden (and junilistan), as it causes problems for example for tv 3 and kanal 5 to broadcast from the uk where they are subject to british legislation and not swedish. the council has also called on the commission to take action against the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the european union's competition policy. the committee on culture has proposed an amendment concerning cases where a media service provider has established itself in the member state of jurisdiction 'in order to circumvent the stricter rules in the fields' coordinated by the directive. however, we would have liked to see the case further prepared in order to have a stronger wording. sweden and junilistan consider that both advertising directed at children and alcohol advertising should be completely banned. we have tried to vote as far as possible for an improvement of the directive in accordance with the guidelines set out above.
in writing. the increased competition for businesses and the increased opportunities for new, cheaper and better products for consumers resulting from globalisation place new demands on flexibility, innovation and adaptability. it is by striving to be better, more efficient and faster that we meet the new demands and opportunities of globalisation. the effect of the globalisation fund already in place will be the opposite. it slows down innovation and delays adaptation without taking account of the opportunities offered by globalisation.
in writing. we are very critical of the thinking behind the creation of a globalisation fund. the proposal starts from the premise that globalisation as such is a problem. however, we believe that globalisation is an opportunity, not least for poor developing countries, provided that major economic players, such as the eu and the us, reform their respective protectionist trade policy positions within the wto. eu member states are able to take national measures to assist sectors which they consider to be in need of financial support. a special eu fund is created to protect against arbitrariness, inefficiency, bureaucracy and unjustified expenditure. how should the commission assess, in a relevant manner, whether a sector has been negatively affected by globalisation? we have voted against the report in question on the basis of the views expressed above.
in writing. i believe that globalisation has had a positive effect on the development of the world and has served us well. today we voted on a report on a european fund for the effects of globalisation. the report contains a lot of critical writing on these very effects. the change in world trade patterns has not had the negative effects that the report claims. my attitude towards globalisation and the increasing exchange of people, goods, services and capital is positive. i believe that a world with open borders, where democracy and human rights are the values that govern the interaction between people as well as between countries, is worth striving for. globalisation has created, and continues to create, great opportunities to free people from oppression and misery, to increase prosperity and to provide greater conditions for democracy. that is why i have decided today to vote against the report.
in writing. we would have liked a tighter timetable for the introduction of euro 5 and lower limits for nitrogen dioxide emissions in euro 6. however, we voted in favour of the compromise with the council of ministers because we believe that it is a good compromise and that an extension of the process would not lead to better rules but only to a postponement of the timetable for implementation.
in writing. despite being among the richest countries in the world, there are good reasons for supporting the international fund for ireland. member states wishing to contribute to this fund may do so by decision of their respective national parliaments. this procedure is more democratic and also means that member states' financial resources are not unnecessarily diverted through the eu budget. we have therefore voted against the report in question.
in writing. we voted against amendment no 10. we swedish social democrats in the european parliament interpret the amendment as a way of giving member states who so wish the possibility of retaining part of the production aid for bananas. as we are consistently working for the decoupling of agricultural aid, this is unacceptable. production aid makes it impossible for banana producers from non-eu countries to compete on fair terms. we are also critical of the proposal as a whole which will lead to increased expenditure. we believe that a reform of the banana market organisation should lead to budgetary savings.
in writing. we have voted against this report because it is in line with the specific interests of european banana growers. we firmly reject amendment no 10 in the report on the special treatment of aid for cotton, olive oil, raw tobacco, hops and bananas. if individual member states want to favour banana cultivation in their territory for regional policy reasons, that is up to them, taking account of international trade agreements and eu rules, of course. however, it is then up to the individual member state to finance this aid without the involvement of the european union.
in writing. the junilists are in principle in favour of enlargement. however, it is essential that the countries wishing to become members meet the requirements before joining. the countries now being considered for possible future accession have a long way to go. it would be wrong for the present member states and the candidate countries to set the date of accession to the eu at this stage. this process should therefore be allowed to mature slowly. the report states, inter alia, that the treaty of nice is not a sufficient basis for future enlargements. the implication is that this is a call for a new constitution, despite the fact that the people of france and the netherlands have voted against it in referendums. the rapporteur also talks about the eu's 'integration capacity' and believes that it must be made clear that this should in no way be confused with the public's perception of the consequences of further enlargements. we can see here a certain contempt for basic democratic principles. if a majority of citizens think that the eu should not be enlarged, this should be heard by the elected representatives. this is a clear example of the contempt for citizenship that is growing in this parliament. since future enlargements are being used as an argument for a future constitution, we have voted against the report.
in writing. the junilista does not share the rapporteur's view that a more federal eu must be created in order to continue the enlargement process. on the contrary, we believe that it is of the utmost importance that political decisions which are to apply to the whole of the union have a good basis in the council of ministers. we therefore oppose the extension of the areas in which decisions can be taken by qualified majority. we also believe that it is of the utmost importance that each member state is represented in the commission in order to give its work credibility in all the member states. nor do we see how the enlargement process would benefit from the creation of a post of foreign minister. the junist party members have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, data protection issues have been at the heart of finland's presidency. on the other hand, the presidency has faced challenges that are relevant and foreseeable, such as the implementation of the third pillar data protection framework decision. on the other hand, there have been situations in which the presidency has had to respond quickly and when circumstances demanded it. examples of the latter are the negotiation of a new agreement with the united states on passenger name record (pnr) data and the issue of bank transfer data managed by swift. as the presidency, finland is aware that the european parliament has on several occasions expressed its strong support for the third pillar data protection framework decision and its rapid adoption. the proposal for a framework decision was one of the priorities of our presidency in the field of justice and home affairs. our ambitious objective was to reach a political agreement on the framework decision during the finnish presidency. this autumn, considerable time and effort has been spent on advancing the proposal for a framework decision. the first reading of the framework decision was completed in our session, and the second and third readings were held. in addition, the article 36 committee and the permanent representatives committee were invited on several occasions to examine specific issues related to this matter. despite these efforts, the timetable proved too tight. it is clear that agreement will no longer be reached during the finnish presidency, and that the examination of the framework decision will be transferred to the german presidency. the proposal for a framework decision is a very broad and complex body whose implications for police and judicial cooperation and data protection require careful consideration. the difficulty of the matter is illustrated by the fact that, despite much progress, some key issues remain open. for example, questions of scope are still unresolved. the main open question is whether the data protection principles of the framework decision should also apply to the processing of data within the member states or whether the scope should be limited to so-called cross-border data, as some member states advocate. the presidency was also tasked in the autumn with negotiating a new agreement on the transfer of passenger name records (pnr) to the us authorities. the agreement resulting from the negotiations is essentially the same as the 2004 agreement. the operating conditions of the airlines remain in place and they can continue to transfer pnr data to the united states. the united states, for its part, has committed itself to ensuring an adequate level of data protection in the future. the agreement, signed in mid-october, is temporary and runs until the end of july 2007. the aim is to complete a new, more permanent pnr transfer arrangement by then. negotiations on this subject, which are expected to be difficult, will be launched as soon as possible. a new negotiating mandate is currently being prepared. the importance of the new pnr agreement to be negotiated in 2007 is further underlined by the recent disclosure of information concerning the so-called automatic targeting system (ats) operated by the us authorities. this system combines data from a variety of sources, including pnr data of air passengers arriving in the united states. the aim is to facilitate the preparation of risk assessments for passengers. the existence of the ats has been known to the council and the commission since the first joint review of the application of the pnr agreement in september 2005. however, the u.s. department of homeland security did not release the description of the system until november 2 of this year, when it was published in the u.s. government gazette. the compatibility of the existing and future pnr contract with the ats system is currently being examined, in particular as regards the retention period, the transfer and the appropriateness of the data. the presidency and the commission have sent the us authorities an official enquiry on the matter. the results of this will be reported to the european parliament in due course.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, as you know very well, on 19 october the european union and the united states concluded an agreement for the processing and transfer of passenger name record data by air carriers to the united states department of homeland security. the government of the united states confirmed a set of undertakings which guarantee the protection and security of pnr data. against this background, concern has been expressed recently following information published last month by the department of homeland security on the so-called automated targeting system. this is a security-screening system making a risk assessment of international travellers, relying among other things on pnr data. the information published by the homeland security department reveals a significant difference between the way in which pnr data are handled within the automated targeting system and a stricter regime for european pnr data according to undertakings given by the department of homeland security. as the president-in-office has just said, we have today sent a letter to the united states government to request formal confirmation that the way eu pnr data are handled in the ats is the one described in the undertakings. the current eu-us agreement on pnr data will expire in july 2007. at the beginning of 2007 the commission will recommend the council to mandate the presidency, assisted by the commission, to negotiate a new pnr agreement with the united states. i am sure that any new agreement will provide for a high level of data protection for all pnr data transferred under the agreement, while protecting the security of citizens. i will keep the european parliament informed on the preparation of the draft mandate, which i expect to get before the end of march 2007, otherwise taking the position that travellers must be informed when their pnr data may be transferred to competent authorities of third countries. the department of homeland security undertaking expressly acknowledged this. we need an international agreement with the support of the public on both sides of the atlantic and of the democratic representatives of the peoples. i have often said that there is an important balance to be struck between measures to ensure security, on the one hand, and the protection of non-negotiable fundamental rights, on the other. the commission, assisting the presidency in the negotiation of future pnr agreements with third countries, will ensure that security issues are properly addressed through the transfer and appropriate use of pnr data, while protecting personal data as guaranteed by article 8 of the charter. finally, a high level contact group was set up at the eu-us ministerial troika meeting on 6 november 2006 to discuss information sharing and protection of personal data for law enforcement purposes. there is a clear need on both sides of the atlantic to work more closely together on these issues. i would also be in favour of close and continuous contacts between this new contact group and both the european parliament and the congress of the united states. we need a broader perspective and a long-term vision to tackle, together with the united states, the terrorist threat, while protecting the fundamental rights of individuals without putting them at risk. more generally, on a subject just mentioned by the president-in-office, i also remain firmly committed to encouraging and continuing to encourage the council to approve as soon as possible the proposal i made 15 months ago on data protection under the third pillar. i count on the support of the incoming german presidency on that. we face a common problem and threat. terrorism will continue to exist in the coming months and years. only a very solid strategy and balanced cooperation with our main international, transatlantic partner will make it possible to reduce if not eliminate this modern form of totalitarianism against democracy.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we in the ppe-de group support the european parliament's recommendation by sophia in 't veld on the use of passenger data. we also prefer the canadian agreement to the american one. we also hope for improved transatlantic cooperation and believe in the will of the fratini in this respect. however, we are not taking part in the debate to comment on a newspaper article but to push for council decisions on data protection rules, even when they have consequences for the ministers of justice in the third pillar and not just when they restrict the rights of companies as now in the first pillar. fundamental rights must provide for the protection of citizens, regardless of the structure of the treaty. data protection is enshrined in the charter of human rights of the european union and in the council of europe convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which also establishes the right to privacy. it is also part of the principles supported by all three eu institutions and all member states. all member states have data protection legislation and a data protection authority. we need all this at eu level too. parliament and the council have been in agreement on this since september, but nothing has happened. the eu has developed its fight against crime and terrorism. in this case, data protection must be at the level of the case law of the council of europe or, preferably, at the level of the member state with the best data protection. parliament always contributes to the development of the field of justice. the vis, sis and europol are no exception. the institution that opposes data protection risks in practice becoming an inefficient law enforcement agency. it is 'both' and 'both' that apply, not 'either' or 'either'. if the council supports the proportionality and necessity criteria, why does it not say so? are you concerned that the ec court of justice will defend fundamental rights? what legislation is in trouble? when do we get the proposal on data protection in the field of law enforcement? the council has a responsibility to the citizens.
mr president, if we are describing the changes in our societies in the european union as threats, of course the citizens will listen and be afraid. i am surprised to see that my danish colleague mr rasmussen is not here, considering his comments earlier. however, if we describe the changes we are making as a way of meeting the challenges we face – the global challenge and security threats – that is another matter. i believe that one of the responsibilities of the finnish presidency and of the commission is to underline what we have achieved this autumn under the finnish presidency. we have a new seventh framework programme, we have finalised our decision-making with regard to reach and the services directive. that is a change of some magnitude and it is making europe better. we have prepared enlargement for romania and bulgaria and have appointed new commissioners. slovenia will enter the euro cooperation. it is a significant moment in the development of the european union. does that make europe worse? does that make people feel threatened? of course not. it makes europe better for its citizens. that is the situation. if we say that clearly and loudly people will also see the rationality of the changes we are making. that should be the responsibility not only of mr rasmussen but also of the european council and the summit meeting. regarding enlargement, let us say loudly and clearly that we are laying down tough criteria while making it credible that those who fulfil them can be members. the presidency should lay the groundwork for a new policy with russia – firm but open, open but firm. we need russia for energy security but we also need to apply stringent rules and a firm policy regarding democracy and respect for fundamental human rights. that is the way it should be and that is what we should hope for in this final meeting with the finnish presidency. you have done a good job and you can do even better in the coming days.
for the pse group. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. finally, we can begin the journey towards a common european driving licence. unfortunately, we have been forced to wait a maximum of 26 years before all the member states have introduced the common driving licence. that's way too long. i think, like previous speakers, that it will go faster. we must now call on the member states to take this matter seriously and to work towards an early introduction of a common driving licence, which will also be replaced regularly. we must also call on the commission to support the member states in this work, as mr jarzembowski said. this is an important issue for citizens, since it concerns so many people. a majority of citizens in europe have a driving licence. one thing we know for sure is that citizens want to be able to drive in their own country and in other countries with ease and to be able to use their driving licence without the administrative hassle. however, citizens also want those who drive on the roads to have a good education. those who commit crimes or break rules should also be able to be punished for them, even if they come from another country. the new common driving licence will eventually meet all these requirements. of course, it has to go faster than 26 years. as has already been pointed out, this will promote road safety, but at the same time it will prevent social dumping, so that those who want to take advantage of the fact that there are fake driving licences in circulation will not be able to benefit economically from it in the future. i would also like to end by thanking all my colleagues for the cooperation we have had. we have been working on this issue for a long time, and many of us have been involved in the debate. in conclusion, i would like to add that i think it is good that motorcyclists are allowed to drive motorcycles with a phased access. i think it's good for road safety.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. – madam president, with one minute of speaking time i can only make two points. first, biofuels are indeed very important, but they have to be produced in the most efficient way. biofuel production in tropical countries is much more efficient than in europe. instead of benefiting fully from that, we seem to be ready to put a levy on such imports. if we can import oil and gas from saudi arabia without levies, why are there levies on biofuels? apart from the efficiency argument, we are also depriving the low-income countries of much-needed income. secondly, emissions in china and india are expanding very rapidly. that is why, in its opinion, the committee on development has suggested that our union should establish a proactive strategy of technology cooperation with these countries, offering financial support to cover some of the extra costs for the most efficient technologies possible. amendment 5 suggests replacing ‘financial’ with ‘technical’. we must be more ambitious than that, otherwise emissions from these countries will overwhelm us in the future. therefore, i urge colleagues to vote against amendment 5.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i should like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for their cooperation. a prosperous, competitive and sustainable future for europe will require a major shift in energy policy. today we have problems with production, distribution, consumers’ rights as well as global warming, stability and security. the challenge and urgent development of a new european energy policy is an opportunity for european citizens, european industry and the environment. therefore i welcome an ambitious energy agenda from the commission next year. i underline the importance of the message from parliament today. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the outcome of the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, where we succeeded in combining an enforced market solution, enhancing market entry for new players, more transparency and consumers’ rights to information, with a clear political signal on long-term international and binding targets on renewable energy and co2 reduction. moreover, i should like to emphasise the importance of including the distributor and consumer aspects to the current production concentration and to stress that existing technologies such as combined heat and power, trigeneration and district heating must be used to a much larger extent, reducing and making more efficient the energy we use. energy policy should not be considered as an isolated issue. it is vital to develop fp7 as well as the reform of the cap in line with the needs of an increased indigenous european energy production. parliament will support current structures of cooperation between member states and the commission’s firm conviction to further develop them. however, we are not in favour of new agencies causing a financial, as well as a bureaucratic, burden on the union. i should like to express my strong support for commissioner kroes’ ambition to make sure competition legislation is not violated, in order to avoid abuse of market power. experiences are like stars: you see them first towards sunset. the eu has the possibility to seize the opportunity to greatly improve the energy market, solve environmental problems and create new jobs. let us take that opportunity.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. it is well known that if a man has only one tool, a hammer, he eventually begins to view every problem as a nail. the reason for this is obvious: a hammer can be used in a useful way only if you use it to hammer nails; hence, you have to imagine that all problems are nails. most of the problems we face in life, however, are not nails. with that attitude, most things go wrong. you can't fix venetian vases with a hammer, and you can't convince a political opponent with a hammer. the majority in this house, however, has one hammer, namely the european union. most of you want to believe, or rather want to make others believe, that the problems which happen to be current at any given moment should, or must, be solved with the help of the european union. this is rarely true. this is true when we look at nuclear safety, radiation protection, nuclear materials in the eu and its neighbourhood. seppänen is on the right track and should have our support, but morgan, who threatens to bureaucratize energy policy to such a degree that it will require a million people to implement it in the short term, is on the wrong track. adaptation to rising energy prices is best done at national level. it is in the competition between countries and companies to find effective solutions to energy problems that creativity can flourish, not by bureaucratising the lives of half a billion people living in economies with very different conditions.
in writing. we want to reiterate our principled view of the eu budget. the junilists believe that the eu budget should be limited to 1.00% of the average gnp of the member states. we have therefore voted against all the increases proposed by the european parliament, while junilista welcomed the few savings proposed by the committee on budgets or by individual members in the form of amendments. there are other unfortunate budget lines, but junilista particularly regrets the large support for the eu's agricultural policy, the cohesion fund, the fisheries sector and the budget lines which support various forms of information campaigns. the junilists also believe that the european parliament's constant travel between strasbourg and brussels must be stopped and that the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions must be abolished. on 23 october, the european court of auditors found that for the 13th consecutive year, it could not be held responsible for more than a small proportion of the eu budget being used correctly or for its intended purpose. how can the madness continue, year after year, to allocate funds which, to a small extent, can be guaranteed to go to their intended purpose?
in writing. we cannot support this budget for a number of reasons. first of all, out of protest against the fact that a few months ago the court of auditors once again did not approve the eu´s accounts. because the eu cannot successfully combat fraud and inefficiency, it should not increase its budget. secondly, we believe this budget makes the wrong political choices, such as too large a focus on industrial agriculture and foreign policy and military projects, and not enough on environment and social projects. finally, this budget does not adequately change some policies which are simply wasteful, such as mass subsidizing of destruction of wine and continuing subsidies for growing tobacco.
in writing. these reports are permeated by a number of populist proposals which are designed to attack the right of self-determination of the criminal justice system, one of the most fundamental principles of the rule of law. among other things, it advocates a 'true european judge' and a 'true european criminal justice'. the purpose of these proposals is clear. the aim is to build a european superstate, and the proposals are a crucial step in that direction. this is completely unacceptable. the junilist defends the sovereignty of the nation state in legal matters. eu cooperation will be limited to the achievement of a functioning internal market and to dealing with transnational environmental issues. the eu will not have a harmonised legal system. we have therefore voted against these reports in today's vote.
in writing. road safety is a highly important issue of a cross-border nature. the eu driving licence directive could thus provide a tangible added value. however, normally the commission and the european parliament, in their regulatory activities, try to govern the rules of the member states in this area in detail. we believe that the subsidiarity and country of origin principles should be fully applied. this is not the case in the present report, for example with regard to the detailed proposals on driving licences for motorcycles and licences for mopeds. we believe in the principle of mutual recognition and therefore have full confidence in the ability of the member states to take well-considered and wise decisions. the harmonization of driving licence provisions can be achieved without a detailed proposal for a directive, as in the present driving licence directive. we therefore voted in favour of amendment no 6, which proposes that the common position be rejected on the grounds that it is too much regulation without improving road safety.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the finnish presidency. as a representative from a neighbouring country, i am proud to be a neighbour to finland these days. you have achieved a lot and have shown that europe is moving. that is important because all the things we have discussed this morning show that we are able to move europe forward. however, that also to some extent highlights the challenges we are facing when we discuss environment policy and greenhouse effects or the need for more competitiveness or the need to face globalisation or the need to do something about the developments in iran. all these discussions result from the fact that we are able to take a higher degree of responsibility than ever before. when we are discussing the new challenges from countries applying to join the union, that is a result of achievements and success, not of the failure, mr farage. if we had failed no one would want to be a member of this union and now they want to be members of this union because of our success. we have more steps to take. a credible union needs a credible common foreign and security policy. happy christmas, mr president.
