i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just one brief statement, not on the agenda, but on your remarks before: the situation was such a few months ago that three colleagues in this house were suspected of trying to pass legislation by paying. the austrian colleague in question, who resigned, has been brought to trial and today has been sentenced to four years' imprisonment without parole, in particular on the grounds that a member of the european parliament is not a small village mayor but a legislator in the highest legislative body on this continent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that, unfortunately, no group has directly requested that we have this debate, but i think it is absolutely important. and i think, mr president, that mrs ashton should definitely be asked to come to parliament at the february partsession. we have not seen mrs ashton here for some time and it would be very important to have this debate with her. i would ask you, mr president, to address this request to mrs ashton.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that was a shameful act, one that can only be condemned. and that the french authorities will do everything is also self-evident. i would prefer, however, that at the next meeting in february - when we hope to know more - we could have a detailed debate on the peace process between the turkish government and the kurdish representatives, which we hope is still under way. that would be more serious and i would therefore - if the honourable members agree - propose that this should not be discussed now but at the next meeting with a statement by the council and the commission on the whole peace process and then also on the murder.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr alejandro cercas, and all the others who have worked with such enthusiasm and energy. i would also like to mention the excellent opinion of the european economic and social committee. the recipe of the cercas report is really outdated: we need a legal instrument, not some soft-law measures, but a legal instrument that defines how restructuring should be done, how it should be prepared and managed. we also need a functioning social partnership, which is a success story. in those countries where it is particularly pronounced, restructuring has been particularly successful. the same applies to enterprises, to information, consultation and participation. the magic word here is "seeing problems early" and "shaping them accordingly". and with well-organized, well-prepared information, consultation and participation, it can be done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner is well aware of the figures: 5.5 million young people are unemployed, and youth unemployment in spain is 56.6%. this is not just a number, this is a scandal. there is an urgent need for action. i appreciate your commitment to combating youth unemployment and therefore welcome the youth employment package presented by the commission on 5 december. i come from austria, a country which, with its education guarantee, is considered one of the best examples of good practice in the european union. we have dual training and we value social partnership to combat youth unemployment. that's a recipe for success. however, austria has done much more. i do not want to talk about the hot potato: it has taken a lot of money. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the european approach is needed here, and this is the crux of the matter: why not create, for example, a fund of our own to combat youth unemployment, why not redistribute the resources of the esf? i would like to conclude with a quote from the president:
in writing. the commission's recommendation that member states guarantee all eu citizens under 25 some form of employment within four months of graduating is likely to remain a wish. and that recommendation is problematic. first of all, what does 'any kind of employment' mean? this could be understood as a voluntary eu social year. or is that to classify under 25s for shoveling snow and such? or should the 5.5 million be forced into atypical employment such as permanent internships, parttime work, menial employment, temporary work, mac-jobs and so on and thus be consigned to lifelong poverty? or how else can we understand this, given the massive pressure from the eu to make working hours more flexible and so on? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be able to do so. it was the european monetary union and subsequently the eu aid programmes that left the southern countries in the grip of the financial world and increased the problem to such a degree. this is a problem for which each country must find the most appropriate solution to prevent an entire 'lost generation'.
the commission has already done so. all four reports, which were unanimously adopted by the committee and which i also supported, show that there is a need to adapt the rules of cohesion policy, and we should thank the commissioner for taking up this matter. mrs krehl has already pointed out that in the past too much was raised on the principle of the irrigation can. we need to promote more targeted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can also help to combat real unemployment, particularly - as has already been said - when it comes to the new cohesion policy in the conurbations. the cozzolino report follows for the first time the central location theory, which has been represented in austrian and german municipal science for many decades. it's really a theory that's gaining traction. why would you do that? because the central places, and especially the cities, will continue to gain in importance. i doubt whether it will be enough to use 5% of the erdf resources and develop certain instruments there. i think that in the future, we're going to need more resources, so we're going to have to relocate even more. but it is sensible to start now with the new means, with the new instruments, and then to see how it develops, and then possibly to adapt and increase. this means that this will not be the last adjustment in the area of central locations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised by the lack of energy saving in the community.
i have to say, madam president, the importance of clear, long-term and sensible objectives, particularly in the difficult times of the ongoing crisis, is shown in my view by the example of the former celtic tiger, but also by the bursting of the real estate bubble in spain. when the court of auditors' recently published special report reveals that eu investment in energy efficiency under cohesion policy has been set at an average payback period of 50 years, often many times longer than the lifetime of the refurbished components and buildings, it is clear once again that more efficiency is needed. the significant changes in the economic policy environment mean that the targeted support needs to be increased. it is high time to reduce, simplify and improve quality, i.e. to achieve a policy of support geared to viable results.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for your fairness in announcing who else will be allowed to speak. it makes sense to decentralise the implementation of strategies, i.e. to involve local actors. however, this approach also carries a higher risk of corruption, because it is precisely at these interfaces, which are organised at a lower level - as we know from the court of auditors' report - that sloppy mistakes and even fraud are always made. the commission has also been working on a number of other proposals, including the one on the future of the internal market. this is a sensible measure, but one must also bear in mind that this simplification, combined with decentralised planning, also leaves more room for corruption or abuse. it is therefore important, commissioner, that the reforms envisaged should not be seen merely as individual measures, but also as a possible negative interaction. we cannot be satisfied with an increase in the number of abuses in hinkunft either. our aim should be to reduce these accordingly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr luigi berlinguer, for his excellent recommendations to the commission. with initiatives such as a regulation on a common administrative procedural law, we can make life easier for citizens and businesses in their dealings with european authorities, institutions, agencies and offices, and help them to get to their law faster and more efficiently. the administrative procedure is designed in particular to provide citizens with a safety net and to incorporate the procedural guarantees generally applicable in the member states. the codification of the principles of good administration, which apply horizontally to all eu authorities, is essential. the european union is constantly faced with accusations of regulatory mania, overregulation and the creation of burdens for citizens and businesses. especially in this year of the european citizen 2013 , the commission should take up ideas that make life easier in europe and strengthen citizens' rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the parliament's call for a commission proposal to create a procedural law for the eu administration is not new. this has been discussed for a long time, and my colleague mr berlinguer is really a driving force behind this debate, for the objectivity and clarity of this debate. we have held consultations with ngos, representatives of other institutions and the ombudsman, and all agreed that citizens have a right to clarity, reliability and transparency. these requirements are partly met in certain standards, but only partly. there is a lack of clear deadlines, rules and procedures which also make it transparent to citizens how and in what way a request, a complaint is handled. access to documents and the long waiting times for answers are the very people who are turning to the commission for help and support in their commitment to the european cause. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. there must be clear time limits for the right to be heard. it requires the duty to justify decisions and non-decisions. and it needs access to documents. in his opinion, mr šefčovič only described the possible negative consequences. i would like to point out again that the citizen is not a disturbance in the operation of the administration, but the one for whom the whole exists. we must take this urgently and seriously. we want to be proud of our administration! we want to be able to be proud of them and to be able to point to them as an example of the fact that in some member states things are often even worse.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs harms, you did not specifically refer to energy policy in cyprus and in europe. can you say something about what cyprus could do for renewable energy? and how do you think we can eliminate unemployment there? could something be done there for small and mediumsized enterprises?
madam president, cyprus’s first presidency has shown that such a small country is well capable of taking over such responsibilities in these tight and really very difficult political times in the european union. you did not promise heaven and earth to us; you were, in my view, quite realistic, cooperative and open for discussions. all in all, you have worked hard to achieve what has already been mentioned. in the financial debates concerning the european budget, you have achieved a great deal. i see the fact that the mmf remains uncompleted as a clear sign of europe’s difficult current economic situation and the member states’ different interests. allow me one statement: i remind all colleagues who have criticised cyprus for the cypriot problems that the topic of today’s debate is indeed the review of the cyprus presidency, and in that sense, efharisto para poli (thank you very much in greek).
in writing. − the increasing concentration of urban areas is bringing new challenges. the continuous growth with the associated development work is precisely what is planned. the growing problems of unemployment, poverty and crime, which can escalate to the point of making entire neighborhoods unsafe, are also waiting to be solved. the approaches such as mobility in the city centres, energy renovation of obsolete residential buildings, construction of new social housing, etc. are to be encouraged. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the text presented was not very useful, so i voted against the report.
in writing. − urban renewal as a contribution to economic growth: with more than two thirds of europe's population living in cities, there are also problems that need to be solved. a metropolitan area is rich in creative ideas. the effects of the economic crisis are being felt. the urban planning of tomorrow must be given new incentives and resources. at the same time, cities should actively participate in development, for example in mobility in city centres, energy renovation, social housing. the democratic participation of citizens and the concept of european citizenship should be promoted. implementation is crucial to overcome the multiple challenges in all respects. the development of cities will make a decisive contribution to the future of economic, social and territorial development.
in writing. - on the one hand, the importance of regional development is constantly emphasised and is also financially supported under cohesion policy. after all, the share of eu regional funds in total public investment in the past was well over 50% in some member states. at the same time, rural regions are becoming increasingly financially starved and infrastructure disadvantages (post, banking, public transport, schools, medical care, etc.) are increasing. it's time this imbalance was brought to an end. i have voted against this report because it does not deal with this very much.
in writing. − cohesion policy is an effective ‘promoting instrument’ when it comes to economic and social development. the territorial cohesion objectives are focused and linked to growth strategies in fields like employment, education and poverty reduction generally within the eu. promoting and sustaining different forms of cohesion policy’s funding programmes implies a significant contribution to the development of big, small and medium-sized regions by using their own potential and individual strengths. there is a need for economic and social regeneration at eu level and decisions have to be made in favour of the citizens. the future funding framework of financial instruments for development has to be sustained and this is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the european solidarity fund is an important and useful institution. the importance of the project is also underlined by the fact that it has been used 89 times since its creation in 2002. however, the aid payments were often too slow to be paid, which was rightly criticised. the amendments are partly in the right direction, but in the end they are not ambitious enough, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − the solidarity fund is an important instrument of the european union for cohesion and mutual assistance. the fund provides financial assistance to countries or regions affected by disasters. the eusf is thus an expression of european solidarity. the report adopted by consensus rightly calls for a review of the current implementation. the administrative procedures must be made more rapid and efficient to avoid excessive waiting times. the access criteria also need to be defined more precisely in order to provide clarity for all those involved. the opposition of some member states in the council is really incomprehensible on this point.
in writing. − this report is about the european solidarity fund, which was launched in 2002. by september 2012, financial resources had been made available to address the damage caused by 49 disasters (floods and fires). the higher number of applications and the increase in the number of disasters in recent years make it necessary to revise the existing regulation. given the economic situation in the eu, the adjustment of the instrument to the current circumstances should not entail any additional costs but should also lead to an improvement in the functioning of the fund. the aim is to simplify the procedure and to clarify the definition. the solidarity fund demonstrates closeness to citizens in emergency situations. efficiency needs to be improved, and administrative procedures are slow and complicated. this could be done with small changes that do not change the core of the existing eu regulation.
in writing. − an administrative procedural law could strengthen the legitimacy of the european union, while at the same time providing citizens and legal entities with clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their relations with the eu administration. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the adoption of a legally binding european administrative procedural law should be welcomed and promoted accordingly. the citizen is entitled to a prompt and transparent resolution of the concerns raised, embedded in a minimum safety net of legal guarantees. these measures of legal harmonisation and confidence-building are fundamental to the functioning of european administration.
in writing. - in recent decades, the business landscape has undergone massive and profound changes worldwide. restructuring should improve the organisational, economic or market conditions of a company, or at worst, overcome a business crisis. unfortunately, today, restructuring is understood primarily as a rationalization measure that goes hand in hand with an exodus of redundancies. these are often the only measures which are reflected in stock exchange trading practically immediately in a rise in the price of the shares concerned. the commission has also been active in the field of the social dialogue, and has been involved in the preparation of the european social fund. it is helpful for the eu to consider further meaningful measures in this regard, as long as this does not lead to a further transfer of competence by the eu. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. − many companies are unable to adapt to the changing conditions of a free internal market in europe and are unable to keep pace with their competitors in the long term. the companies, the employees themselves, usually know best where they need to restructure. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to decide which restructuring processes should be given priority. as the impact on enterprises is in any case different in each member state within the eu, a shift of competence towards 'more eu' is to be rejected. the commission should be asked to examine whether there is a need to introduce measures at european level to monitor the activities of undertakings in order to prevent any form of abuse which would be particularly harmful to workers. that is why i did not vote for the report.
in writing. - this report deals with the subject of 'restructuring'. the economic situation has made this subject more widespread. better anticipation and implementation of restructuring (due to overcapacity, modernisation and structural adjustment) would make it easier for workers and firms to adapt to the changes. the training of staff should be taken into account.
in writing. − it is a great relief that pirate attacks in the horn of africa have decreased so much in 2012 compared to the previous year. but with more than 130 hostages from the past years still in the hands of pirates, this is not a cause for celebration. but the report does show some sensible ways of bringing peace and democracy to the region in the years ahead. the role of the head teacher is still very much present, which is unacceptable in view of the sovereignty of the countries in the horn of africa which must be respected. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the horn of africa is one of the most food insecure regions in the world, with millions of people undernourished and at risk of hunger. the lack of governmental structures is also particularly acute in the region. it is therefore appropriate to address security and stability issues by putting in place rule of law principles and ensuring due process, including effective mechanisms and procedures in the field of law enforcement and an independent judicial system. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this report covers the eu strategy for the horn of africa, one of the poorest regions in the world, particularly in terms of healthcare and the threat of hunger. the continuing instability also has implications for the security of neighbouring countries and the continent as a whole. the vicious circle of uncertainty, instability, poverty and poor governance can only be tackled successfully by a holistic approach to sustainable development of countries. accountable, democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for human rights (the right to freedom of expression) can contribute to long-term stability. the new commission strategy, launched in 2012 under the name share (supporting horn of africa resilience), is helping to do this, linking short-term humanitarian aid with long-term development and coordinating with the eu strategy for the sahel.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report by mrs catherine grèze, although i would like to point out that it is a typical example of the contradictions in the policy of this house. the concern expressed in the report is reasonable and - as the rapporteur has said - justified. at the same time, it is in flagrant contradiction to the decision of the european parliament of 11 december last year, when we decided the exact opposite when we approved the council regulation on the creation of unitary patent protection for patents under the european patent convention. this regulation, which was adopted at that time, is an agricultural eradication regulation for small farmers who produce their own seeds and raise their own livestock. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the citizens know what they think of this parliament. today this, tomorrow something else, nothing is visible, no political line is really visible throughout.
in writing. − specialization in a few plant species with the benefits of using the same machinery and marketing structures and the specialised knowledge and the resulting efficiency gains have a long tradition in human history. high technology in the agricultural sector, land scarcity and high demand (for example for biofuels), as well as aesthetic and sustainability requirements of the modern consumer have further promoted monocultures. the fact that this has a massive impact on nature, especially biodiversity, has been evident for a long time. the indigenous population in developing countries in particular is often exploited in many ways by large corporations. while research into biological resources is welcome to maximise their use, the depletion of research contributors through product piracy is a challenge for the eu, as these practices are contrary to the eu's commitment to poverty reduction and biodiversity protection and to the principle of policy coherence for development enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty. i support the report in principle, although it is doubtful whether the measures proposed can actually bring about change. the situation in the cutting of rare wood, for example, is questionable. i voted for it, though.
in writing. - i agreed to the report on development aspects of intellectual property rights in relation to genetic resources, partly because it explicitly mentions the fight against bio-piracy as an objective. biopiracy - the patenting and privatisation of collective genetic or biological resources or traditional knowledge - is a major problem for developing countries. for example, large pharmaceutical companies exploit the knowledge of indigenous peoples to make a profit without their participation or consent. the european parliament's resolution is only a small step towards international solidarity in this area.
in writing. − the report is generally positive, with particular emphasis on the increasing efforts to establish international arrangements and respect for the rights of indigenous peoples. the importance of biodiversity cannot be overstated, particularly in relation to poverty reduction, improving the world food situation, preserving biodiversity and as a response to climate change. support for developing countries and the general increase in international cooperation in the field of patent law provide the prospect of a common system for the fair distribution of resources.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr chancellor, you have shown in this speech that in your office you have become, in a sense, a passionate and convinced european, following the motto 'learning by doing'. this is also, and above all, a sustainable way of becoming european, because you have seen that we can only solve the crises together and not each one by himself. austria is perhaps particularly predestined to this because it is austria which would probably suffer most from being "squeezed between east and west and north and south". but you have rightly pointed out that we will all suffer if the trend continues as we have seen in the last statistics, with poverty and unemployment moving apart. we cannot be proud of the fact that we are in a relatively good position as austrians or as germans, because in the end it will affect us all. but we also have a social attitude, a social attitude that does not tolerate this. in a sense, i agree with what you said about the unbearable range of interest rates. they said that this interest rate differential, which we have had in europe for many months, perhaps even years, is not acceptable. they have made themselves known to eurobonds and, in any case, in detail to the debt-servicing fund. this is something we are all advocating in this parliament, and we expect the commission and the council to give a positive response and at least to consider how and under what conditions such a debt-repayment fund can be set up. one is to talk about the interest rate being too high in general. but this isn't about talking, it's about doing. you have made that clear, and we fully support that. in a sense - and this is a common feature shared by the majority of this parliament - austria is a counter-model to the neoliberal model, a counter-model to the model that only by dismantling the welfare state can one become competitive. some people may say that i am saying this out of patriotism, but i am saying this primarily as a social democrat. the case of austria and a number of other countries shows that social state and competitiveness go hand in hand, they can and should go hand in hand. we are not the island of the blessed in austria, as a pope once said. but it is a concrete political stance that makes economic and social balance and social partnership play a role. it has now also been shown in france, at the request of president hollande and jean-marc ayrault, that it is good and possible for the social partners to find joint solutions, for example, to reform the labour market. you talked about investments. investment is only possible if there is no primitive, extreme austerity policy, if savings packages are made by the expenditure side but also by the revenue side, and if more revenue comes in to make investments. and of course, especially the fight against youth unemployment, the youth guarantee. that is what we are now demanding for europe. and this is not just a voluntary measure by some countries. it must be a joint european action! what the commission has proposed is good. but we must go one step further. the european social fund must also provide the means for this. that is why this budget is so important. it is not sensible to speak in favour of the youth guarantee but to cut the resources for the european social fund. we want more money to fight youth unemployment, that is what we are asking for. (applause from the centre) on the financial transaction tax, it has been ridiculed many times, both in my own country and abroad. he's coming with the financial transaction tax again! the council's final decision is now before us, and i hope it will be a positive one. i shall ask the irish presidency to do the same tomorrow. but, mr chancellor, you will forgive me if i also point out, as mr daul did, that austria must also make an active contribution to the fight against tax evasion. the two large countries, austria and luxembourg, must now take the step that we can fight together against tax evasion. austria could even keep the banking secret for the austrians. but there must be a duty of information. please take this from here: we want a common european fight against tax evasion, a common european agreement with switzerland, to really show that austria and the whole european union are acting together in this case too. the last point, mr chancellor. it's very important what you said in your last words: for years now - and here too there have been some critical voices - they have always clearly distinguished themselves from right-wing extremism, including right-wing populism. it is not always self-evident in this house, but there are also heads of government who cannot, at least, distance themselves from right-wing populism, especially in their own party. perhaps mr cameron could come to this parliament too. he could make a great european speech in this parliament. but there's also a lot of contradiction. but it is important not to give in to these forces, but to draw a clear line of demarcation. their dividing line, especially against right-wing extremist parties, is something that is very important for the future of europe, and all european politicians - there have been some who have been associated with right-wing extremist parties - should take this to heart. there can only be a clear line against right-wing extremism in europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. criticism as a publication has brought us together, and criticism here in parliament will not separate us now. keep it up, werner! and do a lot more, i'd love to call you after that speech of yours. the eu is to be criticized where it needs to be criticized. we know that. but in the crisis, as we know all too well, we urgently need a lot from the european union, not least to counter precisely those seductive agitators who believe that division would be of any benefit, apart from their electoral success. mr chancellor, you have spoken a lot about solidarity. thank you, thank you! but in recent years there has been far too much solidarity with the banks and far too little with the citizens. it's not just about fighting the debt, but it's about giving you guys in power a massive push to finally break the power of the banks. it points out the limitations in the question of too big to fail, in the question of the separate banking system, in the shadow banks, where every year in the european union alone there is still 23 trillion euros at stake, in the profits from the restructuring, that now the debts are with the central banks and no longer with the banks and insurance companies. i have only one minute to speak. the second point of departure would be to look at genuine citizen participation. we are moving towards a citizens' union and not just a banking union.
the chancellor of the federal republic of germany. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you will understand that i want to thank you for the discussion so far, without going into every detail now. but i would like to make two brief points. i would like to make a comment on mr callaghan's reference to flexibility. you know, flexibility for an unfair cause is bad, and flexibility with fairness together i think is the right way. now, the question is, how is this flexibility in our economic system useful? it is quite sensible to ensure that structures are reformed. there is also the potential for savings, reducing bureaucracy. but it can't be flexibility when one proved in the financial market crisis take risks that in the end the taxpayer pays. we can do without that kind of flexibility. therefore, a balanced mix of guidelines, safeguards and regulations, which are intended to guarantee nothing but fairness - namely, the decisions that a person makes for himself, the risks he takes, even if he is able to pay for them himself - controlled by a banking supervision, by an insolvency law, by long-term further developments in this area, is also a matter of flexibility and fairness. i would like to say to mr helmer that i believe that opposition to the european union in a country only grows when you try to blame all the bad developments in your own country on the european union and believe that you can take all the positive developments for yourself. but we should not underestimate the citizens who know full well that there is a need for improvement in both national and common european policies. such an assignment of blame, like lies or untruths in general, has short legs. that is why i am also in the debate - guy verhofstadt has raised this - often in a controversy with my colleague cameron, because i am convinced that it is a matter of honesty to admit where strengths have been achieved in our countries only because we have achieved them in common markets, through joint efforts. i would therefore like to conclude by addressing the question of competitiveness. competitiveness can be increased by training young people better. that is why i am such a big supporter of skilled worker training, of training workshops, of the youth guarantee. you can increase your opportunities for competitiveness by being more innovative. this is a difficult subject because we all know that in these difficult times we have to be very busy with research funds and joint european research to get enough funds at all. but i am convinced that competition policy can also be strengthened by increasing the size of the small gardens and by contrasting the joint efforts in europe with the competitiveness achieved in other parts of the world by other methods, very often without democratic methods. we have our own model, a democratic, freedom-loving model for increasing competitiveness. and so this model cannot accept a rule that says, lower wages and cut benefits, that's how you increase competitiveness. this is not compatible with the democratic model of europe, because it is losing the acceptance of the people. but i am proud that we are striving for competitiveness with this democratic model of europe! (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is right and important that you have come to the european parliament today. we welcome the signal which you, as head of the austrian government, are sending to the european union and to us. you will understand that i am emphasizing that i am glad that as chancellor you are making more and more speeches for and to the european union instead of writing letters to the kronen zeitung. austria benefits to a great extent from the eu, as you have said, and our present situation is closely linked to our membership of the european union and the enlargement of the european union. the future of the european union is closely linked to the further development of european democracy. i therefore ask you to work to ensure that we quickly have a convention on the future of europe and that political union becomes a reality. i would like to see the european parliament and the commission working together to ensure that the summits are not held behind closed doors and that the council becomes a second chamber, a national chamber. the future of europe, in the face of globalisation and crises, depends on our coming together, taking the next steps towards integration, acting with greater determination and making the debate with the citizen more public and open. austria could, and i mean austria should, because of its historical experience, because of our geopolitical situation and because of the good economic and social data, become more than in recent years the engine of the next steps towards integration, more often the driving force of europe's future, especially when it comes to re-establishing the eu in the hearts and minds of the people. i am glad that you said that the budget cannot be designed to pay less, get more and meet all expectations. but is that enough? i'm not going to. the european union must have the money we need to meet the objectives, the expectations, the projects and the plans. i have one more point. we have a referendum on sunday. it is sad that the european dimension, the international responsibility we have on the question of conscription or military service, is so under-reported in the debate. in conclusion, the european consciousness in austria does not correspond to the importance of the eu for austria. let us create a new consensus throughout europe so that citizens feel part of the community and no politician can play the national card against europe. european democracy is stronger than egoism and nationalism, and we hope to have you as an ally in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll try as hard as i always try. mr helmer has spoken of a waste of taxpayers' money. i think that the real waste of taxpayers' money is a well-paid member of parliament who does not even have time to wait for the response he gets to his speech, ladies and gentlemen. mr chancellor, in preparing for your visit yesterday, an italian colleague of mine said: 'it is good that faymann is coming. it is good because it has held up the social light in the council during the period of darkness. i can imagine that, given the temporary majority in the council - and it is not always easy for us - it was particularly difficult to do so. that's why it's really good that you came. i believe that we can only do this and persevere if we have the attitude of seeking justice, solidarity and social equality. we can only do this together, not alone, not nationally. that's why you can and must do it and you must persevere. now we have a big problem. the greatest problem we have at the moment is youth unemployment in europe. there is nothing worse than young people with no prospects, young people who are brilliantly educated, who know everything and then suddenly find themselves on the street. and this challenge, although we have good models in austria to meet it, and the austrian federal government is doing very well in meeting it, can only be met together. together we in europe will also be able to combat youth unemployment and offer young people a new prospect. but it is not enough to discuss this here. we must also be able to take people to europe, we must be able to inspire them again with europe. in order to arouse this enthusiasm, i think it is absolutely necessary to oppose those who want to destroy europe, to oppose those who say 'let's throw out of the euro zone all those who are not like us', to oppose those who say 'let's leave the euro zone ourselves'. what would that mean? the failure of the euro would be the greatest economic disaster for europe since the second world war. we have to fight this! because then it's not the speculators that are affected, but the people who have to work hard for their money. we must support them, ladies and gentlemen. and i think, mr chancellor, that we are on the right track. it's that what we can achieve together is much more than the sum of our individual strengths. that is the guiding principle that should guide us. let us continue in this direction, let us pursue this and let us do the right thing for the people of europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr chancellor, i hope that your presence will be a source of great motivation to other heads of government, because i believe that holding a debate with us is extremely important for further development. austria is indeed doing a very good job and has a good position within the member states of the european union. i would like to remind you that the european union is not a mere institution, but a political body. in all of europe. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a word on the mff: i agree with your proposal to abolish the discounts for all. let us take this money in hand and invest it in finding a lasting solution to the problem of youth unemployment! it is not acceptable that our really well-educated young people should be on the streets. you are sitting in a rowboat, as you said so nicely at the beginning of your speech. please take the helm with your fellow heads of government, and together, let us all row in the right direction, in a sustainable direction! and above all, it is only by working together and cooperating that we can maintain the peace we have won over the last 60 years.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too am happy to see you have come to the european parliament to discuss this matter with us. i say this without irony: i have enjoyed watching your wonderful transformation from a kronenreiter to a really clear pro-european, who sometimes even overtakes the coalition partner and does not engage in veto threats. thank you for that. i hope you'll stick with it. i think your speech today is very much in that direction. mr chancellor, i respect your clear words. you have also mentioned social europe, the youth guarantee, for example. we are discussing this in the european parliament this week on the basis of the green initiative. but - as one of my colleagues has already said - this youth guarantee can only be implemented at european level if there is more money for it. that is not in the european social fund. and speaking of money, mr chancellor, i would also like to ask you to agree to the pact against tax evasion and to join in, to stop boycotting the interest rate directive together with luxembourg and to start revealing the names of foreign tax evaders who are storing their money in austrian banks. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. we need this initiative from you, mr chancellor. and a second one. you know we're here in strasbourg. the european parliament has three seats. three months ago this parliament decided by a large majority to ask the council to work with us on a plan to move towards a single seat. most of us want brussels, not all of us, but most of us. i would ask you to take this initiative here in the council, to look at the costs with us and then to take the next steps so that we can welcome you in the future in a single seat of this parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is currently widespread scepticism about the eu in austria. we are faced today with a climate of uncertainty, sometimes even of rejection. many people are disappointed and angry. many people complain about the eu's democratic deficit and lack of transparency. and many people have the impression that the eu is not concerned with its real problems, but primarily with itself. we want to take these concerns seriously. we want better information, which presents the advantages and also the disadvantages of eu membership objectively and comprehensibly. mr chancellor, those words are not mine. these are not the words of an evil right-wing populist. these words are taken from your letter to the editor of the largest austrian daily newspaper, which has already been quoted twice, and which was sent by you only a few years ago. today, mr cameron has been accused - and you have also been accused - of speaking one way in the eu and another way at home. you must accept that reproach. mr chancellor, you must decide: do you want the approval of the austrian people or the applause of the eurocrats? that's the question, after listening to your talk today and what you wrote back then.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr chancellor, domestic policy is made at home. i shall therefore refrain from elaborating on the differences in the assessment of the crisis between you and your finance minister. but what have we really done to counter your health-betting? what happened to this crisis? we have shifted the risk to the european taxpayer. we've been rolling over debts, we've been buying billions of hours. we haven't solved anything at all. we have instead a record unemployment rate in spain and portugal - over 20% and among young people over 50%, i do not need to repeat the figures - zero growth, a policy of debt pooling. we have a weak banking union which spares the financial sector, so speculators have nothing to fear. we have not yet had a significant private sector involvement, despite the promises made to european taxpayers at the council summits. we have instead a tax evasion which we cannot control. mr daul has criticised, trampled on and lamented this. we have instead for decades been making billions of payments to countries in crisis, which are now getting money again and whose liability we are now assuming, without any stability having been established there, without any structural change having taken place there and without any budgetary consolidation having taken place. instead, they pray for health. mr chancellor, we could have done that ourselves, without you having to come to strasbourg specifically for that.
i have to say, madam president, the case of mali once again shows the tragedy of the common european foreign and security policy, because once again, in a crisis, a large eu member state has to rush forward to pull the chestnuts out of the fire, so to speak, and the european union is lagging behind. we cannot only develop concepts such as the sahel strategy in a problem area such as that of the southern sahara, but we must also be prepared to defend european interests, if necessary, even to the point of military action. of course, a certain degree of honesty is also needed. we must openly admit that it is not just a question of preserving the state against the islamist or terrorist rebels, but also of natural resources and that here too there are european interests which should not be left to the economically aggressive chinese. the european union must have the courage to represent truly european interests in this area!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we have a long list of rating agencies that have failed: lehman brothers, ikb, hypo real estate, enron and so on. in each of these debacles, the rating agencies were active and did not take responsibility for their bad decisions. the dominance of the three major credit watchdogs continues despite these scandals. we cannot ban rating agencies. but what we can do is change the rules of the game, and change them in such a way that there are alternatives to the big three agencies. the report by mr domenici contains many positive and very valuable elements. the ban on mergers and acquisitions for credit rating agencies with a market share of more than 20%, the reversal of the burden of proof and the determination of the place of jurisdiction as the habitual residence of the injured party are particularly important. but what i find regrettable is that the liability including the burden of proof should not apply to issuers. however, financial intermediaries should inform their clients that while credit ratings are used to assess the creditworthiness of an issuer or a financial instrument, they are not suitable for adequately assessing risk. it is still unclear how much of the credit rating is actual accounting, i.e. mathematics, and how much is opinion. we need to make sure that these opaque ratings are just one of the many pieces of information for decision-making. they must not enjoy a special status and must not automatically influence the decision of economic and financial actors by dangerous pro-cyclical effects. i therefore fully support the idea of an internal rating capacity, and i believe that we should nevertheless make a gradual effort to achieve the goal of one day establishing a european, and possibly a public, rating agency. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: thank you for the comments, which have revealed that the power of these so disastrous rating agencies, in which we originally brought them from politics, because we opened them to the connections, that certain financial decisions must be made depending on a rating, has not been broken. why is there still no independent european agency and why has the market power of the big three not been reduced from 80% to 25% of the volume to be assessed, as so many have called for?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am very pleased to see you here. you know the balance of power in this european parliament. and i hope you know very well that the social democratic group is doing everything possible to make it possible for the rating agencies to get important players on the sidelines, that is to say that there are many rating agencies and there is competition accordingly and that on the other hand the power is broken. the socialist group will not fail. we're in there 24/7. i myself, in my comments on another report on the rating agencies - because we have already dealt with the subject in several stages - have advocated breaking the power of these agencies and making proposals accordingly. but as you know, there are major democratic circumstances which have not yet made this possible. i do not want it to fail me or the social democrats.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am disappointed that the power of the banks, the rating agencies, will not be broken by this regulation, that there will be no new truly independent rating agency, and that the power of the big three will not be reduced from 80% to 20-25%. why, i asked. and i think you have to talk about the resistance. it comes from the very active lobbyists of the german credit industry with their position paper which has been presented to us. it comes from the european data protection supervisor. it comes from the centre for european policy (cep) with its position paper. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in the council and in the other institutions involved in decision-making, especially the commission, which is precisely why we are not making progress where we want to make progress. it is supplemented by the position paper of the european parliamentary financial services forum and the opinion of the german stock exchange, the federal association of german industry and the association of german treasurers, all of whom are investing a lot of money so that as much as possible remains as it was and is not put in exactly where it has been said that something should be regulated. that is unfortunate. we shall be getting more such regulations. they're going in that direction, but they're not going fast enough. this is costing taxpayers a lot of money and the european union a lot of trust. it is not just the rating agencies that need to be controlled, but the lobbyists need to be controlled much more closely.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many risky and highly complex financial products were given top marks by rating agencies, many of them wrongly. speculative bubbles have been created and aggravated. the situation is particularly serious when these are government bonds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the credit rating agencies are not subject to the same legal obligations as credit rating agencies. i think it is particularly important that financial institutions should not rely solely on external ratings in the future, but should also use at least two agencies. and the fact that these agencies change every three years is also very positive. the problem for me is the threshold of shares that a rating agency may hold, among other things. i think 5% is too much, because it does not effectively avoid conflicts of interest. if you want to break the oligopoly structure in the credit rating market, you need a lot of things, if you can do any of them. the rotation principle mentioned above, robust application of antitrust law, merger control and, of course, also - very helpful - a european credit rating agency are needed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have already taken important measures to bring the sovereign debt crisis under control. eurobonds, or as they are now called stability bonds and the associated proposed roadmap to overcome the crisis are further good approaches to achieve a stable equilibrium in the euro area. in the medium term, these financial instruments, combined with sound budgetary discipline, can make the euro area more stable and more resilient to shocks, and to external shocks. i can understand the arguments of the eurobond opponents with regard to moral hazard, but i agree that we need to find other solutions. but a blanket rejection and the argument that eurobonds are a free-for-all to highly indebted countries or even a complete supply to crisis countries is far-fetched. the joint issuance of bonds will be subject to strict conditions and have clear rules for the euro countries. if you want to participate in eurobonds, you have to play by the rules.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say something off the agenda. if we take all these measures seriously, mr monetary commissioner, then you are the right candidate for the presidency of the euro zone, then you are the right candidate for the post of first finance minister of the european union, then we should strengthen the commission and the monetary commissioner in the control of public finances and in the enforceability of reform measures throughout the european union. it is not just a matter of redefining the relationship between budgetary policy and the member states and the european union and developing a mechanism. it is also urgent to consider the relationship between the budgetary policies of the member states and their regional and local governments. yes, we have achieved much, but not enough. we must implement everything we agreed on. the implementation of the european semester, sixpack, twopack, fiscal pact - all these are part of the necessary, sustainable, stronger coordination of public budgetary policies. we must use the momentum we have started to push through the necessary reforms and tackle the necessary structural improvements in public budgets. it is not useful, as i have said, to control only the financial management of the federal state if we do not at the same time have an overview of the spending breakdowns and speculative investments of the regional units. we need a europe-wide cash crunch, and we need to draw the consequences of the misdevelopments of recent years with a concrete programme of measures, what has to be done and by whom and when. the report is good, but we must move forward.
the commission has already done so. you have had bad luck with the european parliament lately. if you look at the airport package, your proposals have been consistently rejected. i now suspect that your conclusion is that if they do not do as i want, i will not be dealing with the european parliament any longer. and that's how you're gonna handle the gigalin issue. you're gonna tell us something about weights and measures. that has nothing to do with the core issue. they have, and i agree with mr cramer, arbitrarily, probably without legitimacy, changed european law! and that is not possible, commissioner! if you want things to change, then bring in a bill, and otherwise do nothing! i would like to ask you: do you want to go down in the history of the european union as the commissioner who tried to change things arbitrarily against the legislator? i don't think that's your intention, but you're well on your way.
the commission has already done so. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the united kingdom. obviously not entirely. because if you look at your behaviour over the last few months, you are obviously aware of the sensitivity, but in reality you are concerned with the success of a particular sector. i listened very carefully to you when you said that aerodynamic shapes, dimensions and weights need to be adjusted, whatever that means in detail. i imagine you're trying to avoid overloading by setting the weight limits so high that no one can put in enough to qualify as overloading. they're obviously trying to make the trucks so long that the railroad has no chance of being competitive. my question to you is: will you make a real impact assessment that also takes into account the necessary additional costs for the public sector if these gigalins are put on our roads? the alpine region will fight back. i can guarantee you that!
mr president, i would like to say to the taoiseach, yes, you are right; ireland has a very different history. not long ago you were the celtic tiger, then came an economic crisis and now you are on the way out of the economic crisis. you are on the way out of the economic crisis because of the positive combination of your efforts in ireland and european aid. this is the remedy for other countries as well. and there is a second point. you want to have reforms and you make reforms with the citizens, rather than against them, for example where agreements with trade unions are concerned. but it is not only about the crisis in ireland; we need your help with the european crisis. there are three elements i particularly want to mention: economic governance in a socially just and fair europe; the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and freedom of movement in the schengen area, including improving conditions for refugees and migrants. let me turn firstly to economic governance. today a prominent newspaper, the süddeutsche zeitung, has written ‘europa leidet, deutschland gewinnt’ – europe suffers, germany wins. this is not how europe should work: some countries win while the others suffer. therefore we have to do something against it. you mentioned the two-pack for more economic governance. we agree with it but we also wish to send a very clear message to the council and to the commission: we need something to lower the differences in interest rates. yesterday in this house the austrian chancellor said the same. we have to start work help set up the redemption fund and we hope to get a message from the commission, and we hope to have your help. as for banking union, yes, we have to set up the banking union now, and we are ready to do so. we also need the capital requirement regulation. but is it acceptable for some member states countries to demand bonuses of up to 300, 400 or even 600%? this parliament is ready to conclude the agreement, but we cannot accept bonuses like that. you spoke about the citizens’ rights. is it in the interest of the citizens to give such high bonuses to a small minority in the financial services sector? i do not think it is. and of course we need your help on the financial transaction tax. i know you do not want it, not yet at least, but we need your help to come to a clear decision. secondly, the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment. i thank you for mentioning the youth guarantee. you also have to make many efforts, including the budgetary efforts, which you mentioned, but if we reduce the budget especially for the european social fund how can we fight against youth unemployment? how will the different countries, especially the poorer countries, fight against youth unemployment? therefore we need also your support in that regard. that would be very helpful, because youth unemployment is an enormous waste of economic resources. it is an unacceptable social deprivation and it is an inestimable political danger for democracy in many countries. but it is not only an economic issue. it is also concerns our achievements in terms of justice and home affairs. let us talk about schengen. it is not your direct business but now it is your business. we had an agreement under the cyprus presidency to go and find a solution with the council, but again the council is resisting, and again many ministers of the interior are saying we want to limit freedom of movement in the schengen area. this is not acceptable to us. we said at the very beginning that measures had to be taken if necessary, we were ready for that. but we cannot agree to undue restrictions to the freedom of movement, because schengen is an achievement of the european union. we want to work on this achievement, we want to improve it, but we are not ready to destroy this achievement which has enabled freedom of movement within the schengen area. therefore, we need your help. but we are also shocked that many council members are not able or not ready to adopt legislative measures on the dublin convention and on reception conditions. again, how can europe show its humanity if not towards migrants and also towards refugees? with regard to migration, internal migration, we reject any curtailing of the rights of migrants. in ireland it may seem as though you have a lot of migrants all of a sudden. i understand that sometimes it seems the social problem is too big but i think we should stick to the european values. finally, taoiseach, you, together with the tánaiste and with your very young but already very experienced minister for european affairs, you will have a good presidency. we are very convinced, especially if you are not afraid of your colleagues in the council, that if you come here to parliament and get the support of this parliament and you think about the citizens, you will have a successful presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after a rather complicated e-mail exchange with the council, i was informed that the schengen accession of romania and bulgaria was now on the agenda of the irish presidency. i would ask you, mr president, to take the concerns and concerns of the people of the central european countries and of my home country, austria, very seriously and not to push this accession too far until the problems of smuggling, trafficking in human beings, organised crime and arms trafficking have been solved in the countries concerned. the schengen accession will facilitate the entry of organised crime from these countries into other markets in the union. in addition, romania has a very generous passport policy for tens of thousands of moldovans, and they have a ticket to the eu. finally, on data protection: i think it is very worrying that fines for data protection infringements are being replaced by reprimands in the new directive. it's not like google and facebook lobbyists are in charge here and not civil rights. in conclusion, i wish you all the best and success in your hard work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have two points i would like to mention briefly. the first is that you have, in your presidency of the council, - we have all been talking about this - the financial perspective. i ask you to change the priorities and not to talk first about the percentages that are being spent, but about what is needed for the european union to be able to meet its objectives, its tasks, its programmes and its challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals. secondly, we are negotiating in trilogue on certain areas, such as the equity capital directive, basel 3 and crd 4. this is the third council presidency to discuss these matters in a trilogue. i ask that we only negotiate more about the things that are open and that you respect the agreements with your predecessor presidencies on every single issue. otherwise we will have to start from scratch with each presidency and we will have contradictions and the basis of trust in the negotiations will be weakened.
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction with the irish presidency. ireland is taking over the presidency of the council from a country which has proudly expressed its independence on several occasions by means of referendums. i regret to say that ireland has been a political target for the militant abortion lobby, and the speeches of some members in this debate have proved this. i therefore appeal to the european parliament not to burden the irish presidency with an abortion debate. the autonomous and, incidentally, exemplary attitude of the irish people towards life deserves our full respect. i would also appeal to the irish government to remain firm, particularly on the question of the protection of life, and not to give in to the pressure of aggressive lobbyists. i also wish the irish government all the best for its presidency of the council.
in writing. – a lot has been said which i can support. i have two thoughts: 1. concerning the mff – i strongly believe that you have to have a good debate with great britain concerning the rebate: ‘either rebates for all or no rebates at all’ – the money from all rebates should be made available to invest into a much better education of our young generation. a job guarantee alone will not help, if the basis is not there. 2. visions for enlargement: i have one very basic question. can we really afford to speed up the negotiation process with these countries in the current tight and very difficult economic situation? we all want the peace we have to continue and be long-lasting; this is also a question of our shared responsibility – therefore we also have to provide stability within the eu. in that sense: let us work together with the goal in mind of having this crisis end. you are the ‘helmsman’ now. so, let us work!
in writing. one of the most important projects of the irish presidency is, for me, the adoption of the data protection package. it would demonstrate europe's ability to regulate important areas of modern life in an exemplary manner and restore citizens' confidence in the effectiveness of the protection of their personal data. this is an essential prerequisite for the positive development of the digital single market. it is gratifying that ireland is officially committed to this. it is surprising, however, when internal documents are produced in preparation for the informal council of ministers of the interior, which substantially weaken the commission's proposal. this double-speak is of little use. ireland must decide whether it wants to support the interests of european citizens or the interests of industry.
mr president, i find the services’ interpretation, which we had to accept, very strange because, as sharon bowles said, it goes against the meaning if we have a compromise and then we have amendments which could make the compromise fall; this does not make sense. it is a senseless interpretation. i am sorry to have to say this. but i would like the president to ask the committee on constitutional affairs to look into this interpretation and to give a clear interpretation, because if you have a compromise you cannot say i will vote for the compromise, and then two minutes later i will vote against the compromise. this is not a sensible parliamentary procedure. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in addition to the arguments already made many times, which speak in favour of a single seat in brussels and which i do not want to repeat, i have another argument why i voted against this calendar today. it is clear that this parliament has shown itself to be quite simply disregardful of christian holidays and symbols. the 20th of may is the date set for the plenary session. may 20 is a public holiday in a number of countries, including austria, germany, belgium, france, hungary, luxembourg and the netherlands. i do not see why, without taking account of the christian holidays, a plenary session should be held on this particular monday of pentecost. that was the second reason why i voted against this calendar.
in writing. − the vote on the 2013 calendar was necessary after the european court of justice annulled the timetable for this year's plenary sessions, which was adopted last year. the court of justice has clearly stated that there must be 12 weeks of plenary sessions in strasbourg per year. as the european parliament is on summer break in august, a second plenary session is traditionally postponed to october. as a supporter of the strasbourg plenary sessions in principle, i also voted in favour of the revised calendar of sittings for 2013 for reasons of principle.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal because the calendar did not take account of christian holidays.
in writing. - i voted against the new calendar of sittings because i am in favour of a single seat for the european parliament. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i also do not think it appropriate to hold the plenary session of the european parliament in may on pentecost monday, because i am in favour of sundays, which include holidays which are public holidays in most member states. vacations are important for people to have time for their families and leisure activities. i therefore support the initiative of the austrian and european trade unions, 'work-free sunday'.
in writing. − hazardous substances and mixtures must be labelled in accordance with the chemicals regulation. the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations are regulated by the dangerous preparations directive. the clp regulation, including the un globally harmonised system, has been the classification system since 2009. its provisions are intended to remain in force. i have abstained because the advantages of a new version of the directive have not been sufficiently clearly identified. i also think that there is a risk that the administrative burden may be greater than is currently necessary.
in writing. this report covers the recast of the directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations (mixtures, mixtures and solutions consisting of two or more substances). the nature of the amendments to the recast directive makes this inadvisable.
in writing. - in principle, the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean should be encouraged. however, in protest at the treaty of lisbon, which was democratically achieved by repeated voting until the result suits the eu establishment and which further fuels the trend of transferring powers to the eu, i have abstained in this debate on whether the regulation in question should be adapted to the new provisions of the tfeu.
in writing. the report is distinguished by its substantive coverage, with a strong legal focus. although the legal component of this report is predominant, environmental aspects are also included: on the one hand, member states are encouraged to step up their efforts to implement the regulation so that the change to the common fisheries policy will allow a new regionalised framework to be established quickly. the second point is that the commission is supporting the sustainability and conservation of resources in so far as it is to decide on the application of the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − in september 2003, the so-called 'cartagena protocol' entered into force. the international successor agreement to the convention on biological diversity provides for the first time binding international rules on the transboundary transport, handling and disposal of genetically modified organisms. the convention provides for a number of measures to protect genetic resources from potential risks associated with the release of genetically modified organisms. the additional protocol on liability and compensation adopted in 2010 established rules on liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms. i abstained because i believe that the provisions of the cartagena protocol are already sufficiently covered by numerous rules within the eu and there is a risk that individual member states may be at a disadvantage compared with third countries whose rules are less restrictive.
in writing. the report deals with the conclusion of the additional protocol on liability and compensation for biosafety. the nagoya/kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation contributes significantly to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. this additional protocol specifically addresses liability and compensation for damage caused by living modified organisms (such as the 2004 european environmental liability directive). so i agree.
in writing. − the euro area's overall debt-to-gdp ratio increased from 86.2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 88.2% in the first quarter of 2012. this is due to the continuing banking and financial crisis, which is also having a negative impact on socioeconomic development and political stability. despite the eu's attempts at reform and the constraints imposed on individual member states, there is no sign of a relaxation in the financial sector. the report did not receive my vote because, as the past months have shown, the reforms proposed by the eu to date are not sufficient to end this crisis. in addition, there is a great imbalance between the member states and the savings plans of the bankrupt countries are very slow to take effect. the member states which are still economically strong suffer, and their aid payments are intended to help the failing countries over and over again. i also believe that further regulatory action will be particularly damaging to the member states which are still economically strong.
in writing. - the report is to be approved on the basis of the careful observance of workers' rights and the welcome demands for stable social protection in the context of budgetary consolidation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european economic area (eea) is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is enshrined in the treaty of rome. the information and suggestions to the commission and to the member states are consistent, meaningful and comprehensible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to repeat the reasons for my agreement, which have already been mentioned by my predecessors, for the sake of time. in particular, what mrs macovei and mr antoniozzi said was important to me. i just want to make one thing clear. paragraph 36a of the committee's amended text calls for the creation of a european debt authority. i believe that this type of debt supervision is both right and important. i support that. it is also important and right that investors should be able to see through this. but if such an authority is to lead to the com munication of debts in the future, i am already saying no to it. if it should lead to the introduction of common european debt securities, i would say no to that. i believe that such an authority - and this clarification is important to me - cannot be a precursor to european bonds or any other form of debt pooling.
in writing. − it is certainly right and important to set clear rules for rating agencies and to implement them accordingly. especially when you consider that the market is dominated by three large us companies that hold around 90 percent of the market share. however, and this is a misunderstanding by some members whose countries are affected by poor ratings, market participants and investors need to have a more or less independent assessment in order to assess the risk of any investment. it may be true that in the years before the crisis, rating agencies were blind to the various derivatives and wrongly assigned good ratings to the toxic papers. nevertheless, the downgrades of various european debtor states over the past three years have been justified. these countries not only have a short-term liquidity problem, but are structurally deficitary and heavily indebted. the credit rating agencies cannot be blamed for drawing attention to this fact now, especially in the light of the criticism they have received in connection with the crisis. i cannot therefore endorse the ideas of 'punishing' the agencies in various ways as expressed in this report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of the regulation on credit rating agencies, as the report contains good approaches to better control and transparency. credit rating agencies have an enormous influence on our economic system. they assess the creditworthiness of governments and companies, which in turn determines their creditworthiness. a single assessment can thus affect the lives of many european citizens. in recent years, it has become clear that credit rating agencies have unnecessarily fuelled the economic and financial crisis. more control is urgently needed: the report commits credit rating agencies to greater transparency, for example on ownership structure and disclosure obligations. the country ratings need to be reviewed more frequently. these are important measures, but i do not think they go far enough. the three largest agencies still hold a 90% market share. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european rating agency. credit rating agencies must be able to be held accountable for negligent mis-ratings.
in writing. − in the background of the financial crisis the credit rating agencies regulation has been a topic on which the council and the parliament agreed on new rules which are being applied now at eu level. these rules concentrate on a common regulation for the issuance of the credit ratings. this meaning that cras need to apply for registration and adhere to the rules that ensure a high quality of ratings. applying this new regulation the cras are more transparent. i voted in favour of the report as it simplifies the cras procedure.
in writing. − the highly controversial role that credit rating agencies have played and continue to play in the ongoing financial and economic crisis highlights not only the importance of credit risk assessments and valuations in financial markets, but also the devastating financial consequences that these assessments can have. we should also be reminded that the usa, despite its massive public debt and its continuous internal disputes, continues to receive top marks, while eu countries have already been massively downgraded in their credit rating under similar circumstances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − in the fight against global overfishing, we have repeatedly set time limits at eu level for fishing with certain gear and in certain sea areas. at the same time, it is virtually impossible to control compliance with these provisions. this will not be affected by changes in the fan quotas after adjustment of the minimum fishing mortality values in accordance with scientific advice. i think that the consumer problem is similar to the shark fin problem. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − a regionalised approach to stock management, based on technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources, which establishes rules on fishing areas and gear but not fishing quotas, may be an important part of conservation provisions. the problem, as always, is implementation. that is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. - article 13 (1) of the rules of procedure provides that, in the event of an equal number of candidates and vacancies, the president may call an election by teleconference or by secret ballot in accordance with rule 169. in the case of an election by popular vote, the president would have to decide at the same time on the order of precedence of the vice-presidents (article 15 (2), second subparagraph). concern was expressed that such a determination by the president might not be unanimously agreed in some cases. if the political groups agree on the persons to be nominated, these persons (usually 14) are elected by a roll-call vote. the ranking is then determined by a vote. the reason for this is that the groups may agree on the persons but not on the order of precedence. in such a situation, the president waives the right (legally vested in him) to determine the order of precedence. if the political groups do not agree on the persons to be elected or if 'independent' candidates stand for election, a vote shall be taken and the order of precedence shall be determined by the order in which the candidates were elected. i think these proposals are sensible and that is why i voted for the amendment of the rules of procedure.
in writing. − a change in the rules of procedure is to be welcomed, particularly if it facilitates the establishment of consensus and increases the opportunities for stakeholders to have a say in a reasonable way.
in writing. the importance of the introduction of a youth guarantee throughout europe cannot be denied: the financial and economic crisis, coupled with unilateral austerity programmes, has led to an explosion in unemployment. with youth unemployment rates of over 50% in spain or greece, we are in danger of losing a whole generation of young europeans. instead of dragging these countries deeper into recession through austerity, there is a need for solidarity at european level in support of active labour market policies, for example programmes such as the youth guarantee. in austria, this project has already been successfully implemented. the training guarantee for young people, combined with the extension of apprenticeship training, has led to an immediate relaxation of the apprenticeship market and a significant reduction in youth unemployment. this is exactly the kind of project europe needs now. we must act quickly: across the continent, youth unemployment is rising faster than total unemployment. the urgency of the situation must also be taken into account in the considerations for the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − currently, one in four young people in europe is unemployed. if we take a more detailed look at the current situation, we find a youth unemployment rate of 40 — 50 % in some member states. the phrase ‘lost generation’ has become pure reality. to ensure this situation does not get even worse, urgent and immediate action is of utmost priority. with this ‘youth guarantee’, young people should be able to find a job more quickly (within four months) after completing their education or, if unemployed, receive a job offer. this is a first step to help and support the young unemployed. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon gave european energy policy its own legal basis in primary law for the first time. this means that the objectives of 'security of supply' and 'economy of energy supply' can now also be pursued explicitly. the eu's energy strategy is geared towards achieving three objectives in the long term. the eu wants to tackle climate change, reduce the eu's external vulnerability due to its high dependence on fossil fuels, and promote growth and jobs through a competitive energy supply. looking at the eu's overall energy mix, fossil fuels continue to account for the largest shares of the total: oil (36.9%), gas (24%) and coal (17.8%). nuclear energy accounts for 14% and renewable energy for 7.1%. the import dependence is already very high for crude oil at 84% and for natural gas at 61%. i voted against the report because i believe that the individual member states should take greater care to ensure that energy is supplied autonomously. this would not only have the great advantage of eliminating dependence on fossil fuels from crisis regions, but would also be the best way to protect the climate, since many member states, such as austria, can only do so if they rely more on renewable energy.
in writing. - the rapporteur presents a very broad overall approach which takes account of both economic and social factors. the needs of individual countries and citizens are taken into account as well as the requirements of environmental policies and the economy. the emphasis on renewable energy, the adaptation of energy to the needs of individual regions and the well-considered financial approaches to support and cooperation between the union, member states and third countries are noteworthy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this is the most important decision that has been voted on here today. at the same time, i'm amazed at how smoothly it went across the stage, without any significant resistance. there were representatives, particularly from germany, from the epp, who said they were against the pooling of the debts of the member states. but that is precisely what is required here: a complete community. if i look at what is being proposed here on the debt-repayment fund, the eurobills that are being proposed, the 'blue bonds' that are to be taken over by the union in the future with the aim of introducing all-debtor eurobonds: this is exactly the communitization of debt, the liability of all those who do not bring about structural changes, no restructuring of their budgets, who do not bring about economic growth. this is pure fiscal socialism, ladies and gentlemen, not resistance, especially from the epp. i can only hope that cameron and the british will resist here. i can only hope that resistance will increase in the member states. then such stupidity will no longer be politically possible in the future.
in writing. - the introduction of eurobonds or eurobills is a major decision. the debt of individuals is being transferred to all the states. the interest rate on government bonds is an important indicator for investors of the risk of an investment. the higher the ratio, the higher the risk of failure for investors. conversely, however, the interest rate also limits the amount of debt borne by debtor countries. it is therefore a natural and reasonable regulatory instrument which can be influenced by the states themselves. a good businessman gets a lower interest rate and can borrow more money. the euro has thrown this important principle overboard, and by aligning interest rates across europe, it has ensured that the crisis countries have borrowed disproportionately and far beyond their means. the result is known. greece is bankrupt, cyprus, portugal and spain are close to it. so, despite this recognition, those who still support eurobonds, which are misusedly called 'stability bonds', either have not understood the situation or deliberately want the taxpayers of the solvent countries to pay for debts that they did not create or that are not their concern. that's incredible, which is why i couldn't resist this paper.
in writing. the report on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds sets out a realistic roadmap for the introduction of such bonds at european level. eurobonds are a controversial subject, but i believe they can make a significant contribution to combating the financial and economic crisis. debt relief by crisis-hit countries can only be possible if moderate interest rates are available.
in writing. − eurobonds are considered as a regulatory instrument of the euro area. stability bonds should, inter alia, ensure the sustainability of the budgetary position of the member states and provide liquid assets for investors. the introduction of eurobonds, however, risks alienating investors from national debt. the introduction of eurobonds would not, in my view, lead to the stabilisation of the eurozone. it would only lead to further distortions of the market. as 'eu presidency', we must take action to eliminate market instability and distortions. i have also said that i am not going to vote for the report because i believe that the national budgets are still in serious deficit and that the measures taken so far have not been successful or that some member states are not making the necessary efforts.
question for the commissioner: i have a question to mrs costa on cooperation. mrs costa, you spoke of cooperation. do you think that we have a chance to make new contacts in the fields of science, education or small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, and to extend a hand of cooperation?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's impending partnership agreement with iraq is a new opportunity, but it is doubtful that it will be, given the heated debate within iraq over the rule of law and the ongoing waves of protests and attacks. it is clear that the current situation in iraq is highly explosive. the hope that new elections will help to ease tensions will, i fear, remain an unrealistic dream. the recent prison releases will not change that. the sunnis are known to be calling for a general amnesty and the repeal of the anti-terrorism law. the shiites and the kurds, as you know, categorically reject this. in the explosive environment of new territorial disputes, this could all too easily lead to violence and even to the disintegration of iraq. the eu should wait with the partnership agreement, in my view, at least until after the forthcoming new elections, precisely to ensure the development of peace. that would be a command of reason.
mr president, commissioner barnier, and the council's representative, when we talk about the terrible tragedies in pakistan and bangladesh, we are not just talking about unimaginable blows of fate. we also talk about responsibilities and fundamental rights. the 112 dead in the tazreen factory fire is the flip side of a policy of market opening. the further away the manufacturing companies are, the further away everyone looks: manufacturers, dealers and customers. they look the other way when it comes to wages, health, working conditions or environmental protection. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. that is why we need more than ever a social accountability of multinational companies. i would ask all those who are now having doubts about the resolution to give it a good think. the resolution contains some practical proposals which will be implemented very soon. i would like to highlight one good proposal, namely that the eu embassies, including those in bangladesh, should be contact points for complaints against eu companies. the foreign service trade delegates should be regularly trained in csr measures, in measures decided by the ilo, oecd, etc., and thus be really direct contacts in the country itself, so that the impression is not created that responsibility is already infinitely far away.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. last monday, 14 january, was an important day in the fight against corruption in this european union. the former colleague here in the european parliament and then head of the austrian people's party delegation, former minister of the interior in austria, was sentenced to four years in prison in vienna for the proven fact of bribery in the first instance. this conviction for the proven willingness to make changes to the law in exchange for a bribe of €100,000 would not have been given if he had been a member of the national council before 1 january 2013. in other words, this european anti-corruption package, with pressure on the member states to do more in the fight against corruption, is a must. i am glad that we are debating this today and that it is moving in this direction. the judgment against mr strasser must also have a general preventive effect. i hope that in other cases now before the courts, both in austria and in other parts of the eu, this judgment will be followed and similar judgments will be made. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we need the european reports, certified by independent experts, also in cooperation with the ngos. then we'll have more success in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ladies are talking so fast, i'm sure the translation won't catch on. i'll speak more slowly. an eu-funded ski slope on the sunny island of bornholm, eu subsidies for cosmetics studios, for the training of tv showgirls and similar nonsense: this is just the tip of the iceberg of nonsensical projects and lack of european supervision. for years, the eu's court of auditors has found blatant shortcomings in agricultural and structural funding in its annual report. so for years, the taxpayers' hard-earned money has been leaking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the mafia and organised crime are indeed draining the eu's coffers of around €1 billion a year - about the same amount as we spend annually on funding trans-european networks - then it is high time that controls were finally tightened up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. among the most corrupt countries in the european union, greece is at the top, followed by bulgaria, romania, italy, slovakia, portugal and spain - that is, those countries to which we have been sending billions for decades without changing their structures, without making the administration more transparent, without making the financial administration cleaner, without making a budgetary reform, without fighting record unemployment, without actually curbing mass poverty, without actually getting the economy going. this means that it is the ideal breeding ground for corruption, for the shadow economy, for bribery, for tax evasion, for economic crime, for mafia structures. it's as perfect as it gets. so what makes us so optimistic that we will be able to manage it better now that the crisis is getting worse? this is not possible by stricter laws alone. it's not about better control alone. the only way to do that is to give money only against proof of use. that's all i have to say. there's no other way. money for proof, or we'll never get this under control! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to say to you, mr president, that portugal is ranked 12th among the 13 most corrupt member states in the index which has been published and which you can check. you can check it out for yourself. and i say to you, quite frankly, if we do not call things and countries by their names and do not show the people, you will never be able to fight corruption. and so i am proud of the austrian judiciary that it has finally succeeded in charging a member of parliament. i am waiting for the accusations to come from portugal, italy and greece. greece is a serious case, and there are no charges in sight as of today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr stadler, i have to agree with what my colleague, mr tavares, has said. we have massive cases of corruption in austria, and a member of your own party - perhaps he is no longer in it - mr scheuch was recently convicted as well, because it was proved that he wanted to give a russian citizenship and was willing to take bribes for his own party. it was someone from your own party. he was convicted too. we have a massive corruption problem in austria and we have to fight corruption in all countries and you cannot just attack portugal here. it is necessary in all countries, and in austria it is very much needed.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i'm grateful you put this rail for me. they'll never change humanity. where there's money, there's always going to be corruption. the question is how to fight it. if mr scheuch has now been convicted in addition to mr strasser, then we have another high-profile conviction. it's got to go on like this. besides, i'm very concerned that mr scheuch is not a member of my party. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the fact remains, however, that greece is at the top of this index. that's a fact. that's why i didn't say anything wrong. if greece takes a strong stance against corruption and tax evasion in the future, that would be wonderful! then we will see greece in the future on a different index point. but i still lack faith, i still only hear the message. the commission has not yet produced any evidence that the fight against corruption in greece is being taken seriously and effectively.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister! eu money is tax money and hard earned money. the citizens are right to expect that these funds will be used correctly. we have competent control bodies at european level, we have competent control bodies at national level, but we also need the necessary instruments for these control bodies at all levels to verify that these funds are being used correctly with the aim of fighting fraud and corruption as effectively as possible. i am pleased that commissioner barnier has presented a whole package of appropriate instruments. but we should also consider the instruments we have tried to use to combat corruption and fraud, but with little success. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i say this because we have recently had this debate in the committee on the internal affairs in connection with the new regulation on the migration and asylum fund and have proposed that these announced controls, where everyone can prepare for anything, should finally be stopped. they are not effective, and we have therefore decided, on my proposal - and i am very pleased about this - to carry out unannounced checks in hinkunft. this is one of the examples i mentioned earlier, where unsuitable instruments can be replaced by suitable ones. i would like to conclude by asking the council presidency, which has also made this a priority, to take up this instrument again and introduce these unannounced controls and not to continue with the inappropriate instruments of the controls long announced.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the completely different practice of airlines with regard to hand luggage is a distortion of competition of the first order, especially if you simply allow the airlines to grant, as you indicated in your reply. this is particularly true in the area of local carriers. for passengers, this is a particularly unpleasant aspect of air travel. boarding becomes an obstacle course from the control of liquids to the control of hand luggage. airlines can't do what they want. there are passenger rights, but they must be enforced. we cannot continue to send passengers to the european court of justice to change things. a particularly difficult problem is the musical instruments already mentioned; but computer bags and women's handbags are also becoming increasingly problematic during inspections. the commission's answer is more than unsatisfactory. the passenger can no longer choose which airline he wants to take on many connections, because the market division of airlines mainly concerns regional routes. only between capital cities does the passenger today still have a choice between different connections and airlines. you can't let that happen. in air transport, the free market with the choice for passengers has practically disappeared when you look at it outside the major capital lines. commissioner, you are usually very particular about competition. i would like to ask you to take a firm stand against airlines which do not care about consumers or passengers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to share with you two examples that have recently come to my mind. i had the pleasure, not to mention the airline, of flying a plane with the beautiful name of the city of wittenberg some time ago, and what happened was that a group of transfer passengers arrived very late and from very far away. it was a mess with the luggage. but we managed to accommodate everyone and all the luggage. a little later, i took another line. similar scene, but passengers have been told not to take more than one piece of luggage, not even a bottle from the duty-free shop. it was a mess. this is not right! there must be uniform rules! whether someone takes more or not is a matter for discussion. but it must be clear to passengers before boarding a flight that the same rules apply in europe, regardless of the airline or airport. that is your responsibility as commissioner!
the commission has already done so. we have already seen a number of examples today which show that a clear regulation is needed here. but it must also be a regulation that is in line with practice, because it does not make much sense to have a regulation that then actually allows additional costs through the back door and only creates an opacity in ticket pricing. i have a request to you: talk to people not only who are travelling in business class, but also to people who are travelling in the former 'wood' class, who may be travelling with children, who need more than one piece of hand luggage and who may not be sitting in the rows that are called out first, who then try to get on with a few pieces of luggage and find nowhere else in the hand luggage compartments. that means we need sensible regulations. i don't think regulations are going to make any sense to me if i have to wrap my children in five vests before i get on, if i'm going from a warm holiday country to a cold holiday country because i can't take them in an extra sweater. we see all this nonsense every day. we need a clear regulation here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of tickets is not increased.
the commission has already done so. i am surprised at the commission's approach. the european parliament made its position quite clear in its first reading. the commission's move is more than questionable, despite the fact that the member states cannot agree on a position. the commission has also taken the view that the us cool programme, which the commission cites as the reason for its decision, should not be abolished, but merely amended. this is an unacceptable approach to our house, as you heard this morning. instead of working on the issue to find a wto-compliant solution, there is simply a backtracking. that is why i have a specific question for the commission: how do you intend to comply with parliament's repeated requests and guarantee that imports from third countries are subject to the same production, social and environmental standards as eu products? what could such arrangements look like within the wto framework? does the commission intend to inform or even involve parliament in future in decisions such as the withdrawal of a legislative proposal?
the commission has already done so. i feel that i have been let down three times today, first by the council, which we are sorely lacking as a partner today, and secondly by you twice, as a member of parliament and as a consumer. as a consumer, because i believe that it is clearly in the interests of 500 million europeans to be informed about the origin of the products they buy, use and consume in europe. we see this in all the eurobarometer surveys: consumers want to know about it. secondly, i feel that you have let me down as a member of parliament. this parliament made a very clear position two years ago and you had the opportunity to negotiate that position with the council. and it is a very cheap argument to say that the wto will not allow that. the wto is a negotiating partner. they have the opportunity and the task of discussing and modifying what we have set as a target in such a way that it corresponds to this target expectation. i hope that this morning's threat was really just something to wake us up and to remind us once again that the council must also take action. i expect you to negotiate in a way that is in line with the wto and meets the expectations of europeans.
the commission has already done so. the eu has been negotiating a trade agreement with the mercosur countries for years, and attempts to complete this ambitious project have been ongoing for years. and it seems that the past is repeating itself. now the negotiations are stalled again. open markets are important to the european union and agreements which allow for a regular, reciprocal opening up are of immense economic importance. but i wonder whether there is any possibility of reciprocity in these negotiations. studies, including those of the commission, show that a gain for european industry and the high-end sector is matched by a sharp loss for european agriculture. the european agricultural sector is reported to be losing up to 7 billion euros. the commission should keep this in mind. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. i would therefore like to reiterate my request and that of the european parliament: compulsory sustainability chapters must be integrated into trade agreements, linked to safeguard clauses. equivalent production, social and environmental standards must be applied to imports from third countries in trade agreements. i have the following questions in this context, commissioner. what is the commission's position on the mandatory integration of sustainability chapters in trade agreements, as called for by the european parliament in its report of 27 september 2011? in view of the tensions within mercosur, is there a plan b for the commission to move forward with individual countries to conclude the negotiations?
the debate was closed by the tabling of five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 17 january, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
ladies and gentlemen, the situation in algeria is deteriorating dramatically. the algerian army has now surrounded the place where an armed islamist terrorist group is holding european hostages, aïn amenasse. i condemn in the strongest terms the hostage-taking by this heavily armed terrorist group in southern algeria. a british citizen has been killed. i would like to express my condolences to the family and also to the british government on behalf of the european parliament. i would also like to express our solidarity with the families of the foreign and algerian workers who are also being held hostage by this terrorist group. we trust that the algerian authorities will do everything necessary and possible to free the hostages. the attack on algerian territory, however, shows how tense the security situation is in the sahel. the threat posed by the jihadists in these countries is not only a threat to this region, but also to us as the european union - a threat that is real and serious and that threatens peace in the entire mediterranean region. on behalf of the european parliament, i hope for a peaceful outcome and an outcome without casualties.
in writing. − this report deals with the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. the aim of the agreement, which will be valid for 10 years, is to create a solid basis for the development of relations. the aim is to combat poverty and meet vital needs in health, education and employment. a long-term strategic vision is essential for stability in iraq, as are democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. this agreement will, among other things, contribute to the democratic transformation and reconstruction of iraq in the years to come. this is a sign of the eu's commitment to iraqi transformation, but the eu's commitment must remain to mobilizing human and financial resources to meet the political ambitions and strategic challenges.
in writing. − the interim economic partnership agreement (iepa) between the eu and the esa region (eastern and southern africa states) is the first agreement that has been applied and entered into force last year in may, although not signed by all countries. the purpose of the agreement is to help the esa region to develop by increasing the export rate (these countries should open gradually their markets to european exports over the next 15 years - max. 20 % of the imports should be from europe) and by attracting foreign investors and investments to that region. these countries need our help in drawing a development strategy that will further help them to achieve a structural adjustment of their economies. cooperation and synergies with these countries should be encouraged and sustained by the eu.
in writing. - one of the overarching objectives of modernising state aid law is to promote economic growth. this should not lead to an increase in public debt. state aid, less but more targeted, is necessary. the legal basis for the proposal (article 109 tfeu) is only for consultation of parliament, not for co-decision in other areas of market and economic regulation, according to the lisbon treaty. this is regrettable.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because the tragedies in bangladesh and pakistan are not only about unimaginable blows of fate, but also about responsibility and fundamental rights. every worker has the right to health and safety at work. it is the responsibility of every employer, indeed the duty, to respect this right and to take the necessary measures. the union's bilateral trade agreements must include precisely such aspects. so far, however, these agreements have often proved to be false. responsibility is pushed far away and when there is a mishap, it is looked away. european companies cannot hide behind a subcontractor chain and then claim they knew nothing. in countries like bangladesh we allow violations of fundamental rights which we would never accept in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the trade unions are not only the legitimate representatives of the workers but also a hugely important interface when it comes to safety at the workplace. they know the conditions on the ground and they know the needs of the workers best.
in writing. - in the textile factories in bangladesh, there has been an increase in the number of deaths of hundreds of workers in recent years. the working conditions are precarious, workers' rights are not respected and fire safety is (almost) unknown. the economic situation has hit bangladesh as the second largest textile exporter. however, health and safety (fire) laws should be observed and enforced and a system of appropriate working conditions established. the inspection of buildings, especially industrial buildings, is another obligation.
in writing. the european parliament adopted its position at first reading. the commission has also taken the view that the us cool programme is incompatible with wto law. i would have expected you to work together to find a solution. the commission has, however, preferred to withdraw the proposal. i am clear that imports from third countries must be subject to the same production, environmental and social standards as eu products. the commission is invited to take a look at this and to consider what such provisions might look like within the wto framework.
in writing. − negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and the mercosur countries, brazil, argentina, uruguay and venezuela have stalled repeatedly in recent years. they're still stuck. the opening of markets is important, but it must be regulated and mutually supportive. i think it is doubtful, however, whether this reciprocity can be achieved in agriculture. studies show that european agriculture could face losses of up to eur 7 billion. the sensitive agricultural sector must play a special role in the negotiations. i therefore reiterate my support for a binding sustainability chapter in trade agreements, linked to a safeguard clause. imports from third countries must be subject to equivalent production, social and environmental standards.
in writing. − the eu is negotiating at the time being a trade agreement with mercosur. the agreement still to be agreed on focuses on topics like trade in industrial, agricultural goods and services. issues like government procurement rules, intellectual property, customs and trade facilitation and technical barriers to trade are also being brought to attention. both markets, the eu and mercosur, represent complementary economies. the eu is for mercosur the first market for the agricultural exports and in the same time the eu exports to mercosur mostly industrial products and services. the cooperation between the two parties would be beneficial and advantageous for both sides, but there is still a need to create a stable framework for the investment protection.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is true – as so many have already said – that there are hundreds of millions of women on this planet who suffer daily from violence against women and girls, be it in very mild forms, such as stupid sexist jokes or harassment, or in really brutal forms, like the gang rape that we have seen recently in india. for all those who still think that violence against women and girls is somehow a lesser evil, i would like to repeat what my colleague ms parvanova already said. a recent study financed by the daphne programme has shown that domestic violence alone in the eu member states costs around eur 16 billion every year. it is, therefore, high time to stop violence against women all over this planet. i would like to congratulate you, ms reding, on the directives that you have mentioned. i think there has been good progress. there is still one thing i would like to remind you of and help you to go ahead with it in the commission. last year, this parliament asked you to launch a directive against gender-based violence, one that would enhance the struggle that we already have. i would ask you to go ahead with that in the future. i also support the call from all those who have said that member states of the european union have to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. only ten have signed up so far, and hardly any have ratified. this needs to change. i would also like to thank the chair of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, mr gustafsson. i think that he is a good example of how men join in the struggle opposing violence against women. i would like to invite every woman and man in this chamber, and those who watch us and listen to us, to join, on 14 february, eve ensler’s ‘one billion rising’ initiative. on this day, all over this planet, one billion women and men will rise up, stand up, dance and shout out loud: ‘we can stop violence against women’. it is possible for women to live without fear and freely.
in writing. violence against women and girls is still a global problem. it takes many forms, regardless of income, social class or education, and affects the daily lives of many women and girls around the world. the attacks are not only physical but also sexual and psychological: in addition to sexual abuse, rape, domestic violence, violence at work, forced prostitution, forced marriage and genital mutilation, violations of the right to self-determination, freedom of choice and education of women and girls are increasing. they suffer massive mental and physical problems, including reproductive problems and death. these human rights violations lead to inequalities between men and women, which not only lead to high social and economic costs, but also to massive damage to families and societies. this is why we must tackle this problem at all political levels. i therefore advocate increased action and cooperation between the various organisations, women's homes and support structures. the commission also intends to step up action at international level and to provide more financial resources. the united nations has an important role to play in this. at the 57th session, their primary task will be to bring the issue to the focus of policymaking and to inform the public so that the eu can be moved to take further policy action.
question for the commissioner: mr schmidt, you have spoken about the cosme programme. do you think that parliament's demand that five billion be spent here would help us, for example, to actually eliminate youth unemployment - especially in the area where 50% is reached - with this programme? what do you think is the chance that young people in particular will be encouraged to become self-employed or to set up small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be an extremely good opportunity for young women in particular, but also for migrants in the future? do you think we'll be able to get this request through the council?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree in this house that small and mediumsized enterprises are the economic backbone of the european union. more than 99% of all enterprises are smes. they create 85% of all new jobs and they are the number one taxpayer among businesses. the financing of smes is therefore closely linked to the ability to invest, competitiveness, growth and employment on our continent. we have a phenomenon which is different: 80% of the financing of smes is financed by credit. smes are therefore highly dependent on credit. we must do everything possible to increase the supply of capital, to increase opportunities, to facilitate access to the capital market, and we are trying to ensure that the retail limit for private loans is raised by 50% to 1.5 million in the basel iii and crd iv banking regulations, and we are trying to reduce the risk weight for sme loans by 30%, because sme loans do not represent an increased risk, but are a necessity for growth and employment on this continent. we need to ensure that eu funds million go directly to businesses and that the heterogeneity of sme activity is respected. a broader funding base is therefore urgently needed.
in writing. while the credit crunch affects small and large enterprises alike, smes have traditionally lower equity capital than larger enterprises and, owing to high information and transaction costs, have limited access to external sources of finance. this makes bank loans the most important external source of finance for smes. we know that the financing conditions for investment have deteriorated massively since 2009. this is reflected in the increased collateral requirements, higher interest charges and higher documentation requirements. in addition, suppliers are more restrictive in their handling of supplier loans, and they are also faced with limit reductions by their credit insurers. so we need not be surprised by the increasing rate of sme insolvency. in this tense situation, it is all the more shameful that all sme initiatives at eu level are mainly on paper. it is long overdue that access to eu funding for smes is finally made easier. and it is precisely in the tense times of the financial crisis and the euribor scandals that the timely implementation of the new basel rules must be constantly reviewed, especially when the us, which exerts the greatest pressure here, is constantly lagging behind.
in writing. smes account for 85% of jobs and are the driving force of the european economy. the financial crisis has led to the insolvency of a number of european banks. as a result, banks were less willing to lend to smes and confidence in lending institutions was damaged. access to finance for smes must therefore be facilitated. there is a need for accelerated procedures and single points of contact to encourage start-ups, especially in view of the many otherwise profitable businesses that have not survived the economic crisis and deserve a second chance. the commission also proposes to simplify the application process for eu programmes and to facilitate crossborder activities for smes. however, it must be ensured that the pseudo-independent do not also benefit from simpler structures, especially in the construction sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the need for this report is shown by the statistics of the individual member states. in austria, for example, 17.6% of the population is 65 years of age or older. the trend is, of course, upwards. globally, the number of older people in europe will rise to 151 million by 2060. it is essential to promote active ageing and at least a certain degree of independence, as well as the early diagnosis and prevention of age-related diseases and, of course, the care of our elderly. in rural areas, we are already seeing with the increasing urbanization that the care of the elderly and the support of relatives is very problematic. i have said it many times, and i will say it again: we must now take precautions for this population. because the problems we are discussing will simply overwhelm us if we do nothing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
question for the commissioner: my question relates to the impact of pricing on employment in this sector. how do you think pricing affects employment, particularly of selfemployed women, and what opportunities does it offer to pay decent wages in this area?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to thank you for being here with us in strasbourg at a time when france is assuming important responsibilities in mali. you have made a courageous decision by engaging french and african soldiers to liberate a country from the yoke of jihadism. you can count on our support in this fight against terrorism, but we need a new alliance between europe and africa to fight terrorism, drug trafficking, but also poverty and corruption together. you have been elected, mr president, at a time when europe is going through a triple crisis: an economic, a social and a political crisis. in the last eight months you have brought about change in europe, and that is good news for europe and its citizens. mrs merkel is no longer the commander-in-chief, as in the days of the merkozy couple. europe needs a balanced franco-german relationship, open to compromise and oriented towards the future. thanks to you, mr president, europe now has a growth pact to correct the damage of blind budgetary austerity. but now we must give this pact a boost if we are to succeed in creating more jobs. the costs of unemployment are enormous and represent more than 1% of gross domestic product. you, mr president, have snatched from mrs merkel a first agreement to establish a banking union in europe. we now have to get an agreement between parliament and the european finance ministers in a few weeks. social europe is no longer for absent subscribers. the commitment has been made to strengthen the social dimension of the euro area, but we are asking for concrete measures. these are tangible advances, but europe is still in crisis. in this parliament, the socialists and the democrats have been fighting for months to prevent the european economy from succumbing to an overdose of austerity. that is not our vision of europe. my group proposed two years ago that certain investments should be deducted from the calculation of the public deficit by a golden rule. a wasted punishment. the right wing in this chamber is vehemently opposed to it. today, mr president, the euro zone is entering a second year of recession. unemployment is exploding. by the end of this year, europe will have ten million more unemployed than in 2008. we do not want any more of this austerity which is leading our people into unemployment and poverty. we must give the european economy oxygen. even the international monetary fund - very much attached to liberal orthodoxy - headed by ms lagarde has made its mea culpa, admitting it was wrong about the impact of austerity policies. my group, the socialists and democrats, is in favour of a budgetary consolidation which is reasonable and acceptable to the people. to use a phrase of president mitterrand, we must give time to time. europe, mr president, must invest to get back on the path to growth. it will regain competitiveness by innovating through investment in research and development, new technologies and the environment. mr president, in two days' time you will be attending a crucial meeting on the future of europe. it concerns the budget of the european union for the next seven years. we want an ambitious budget, modernized and geared towards growth and employment. and that is where, mr president, the franco-german couple must come forward and unite. and as you said, saving money is a good thing, but weakening the european economy is not! that is the position of our socialist and democratic group. finally, we must continue the reforms to stabilise the euro area in the long term without closing the door to countries that want to join. but these economic reforms will also have to be based on a solid social pact. i will give as an example a youth guarantee, to which your government has already shown real commitment - we agree with you 100% on the role of young people - a minimum income in europe, a revival of social dialogue at national and european level. your government has already taken this path by allowing a historic agreement between the social partners. the euro area must remain attractive, it must offer the necessary democratic guarantees, and the european parliament, in collaboration with the national parliaments, must play its full role. mr president, we have just celebrated 50 years of franco-german friendship. but there is another anniversary which cannot be ignored: the 60th anniversary of the first european treaty, the european coal and steel community. today, european steel is in danger of dying. our steel industry is prey to predators from elsewhere with false promises. some executives believe that industry is no longer a future sector. they're wrong. europe without industry is an even more vulnerable europe in a globalised world. (applause) these are the elements of a comprehensive and progressive strategy for competitiveness. those who do not wish to do so would have to leave the ship and experience the cost of being left to themselves in the turbulent world. for us social democrats, a europe à la carte is not an option. that is not our vision of europe. europe is not just a large market without political ambition. from the outset, the construction of europe has been destined to be a political union, a union of solidarity between peoples and nations, a union based on humanist values, a union guaranteeing equality between men and women, a union based on tolerance and justice, a union which does not accept any discrimination based on religion, sex or origin. and in that regard, mr. president, i welcome your government's defense of marriage for all. that is our position as well. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, change is under way in france. it is also being done in europe. we must continue along this path in order to build a europe that is socially fairer, more united and stronger in global competition. your role, mr president, is crucial. we must not give in to mr cameron's simplistic vision of the single market. mr. cameron's vision is not ours. on the contrary, mr president, you must say to mrs merkel: 'angela, you are the heiress of konrad adenauer, willy brandt, helmut schmidt and helmut kohl, all statesmen who shared a european vision. help me to bring the european dream back to life.' you, mr president, launched your campaign in france with the promise of reinventing the french dream. now, as a member of the european council, you can help us to reinvent the european dream.
in writing. - the remoteness, the scattered location of the islands and their positioning amongst each other and within the group of islands create their own problems (lack of connections to the outside and within the territorial unit, special geophysical or climatic conditions, etc.). since the aegean islands are not recognised as an outermost region in the treaties, a separate legal basis has been created. the support for the smaller aegean islands, which has been in operation since 1993, includes measures to promote the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products and measures to improve the supply of raw materials to the islands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. − strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion is an important factor in ensuring the harmonious and balanced development of the union as a whole. the union shall in particular aim to reduce disparities in the level of development of the various regions, in particular island, frontier and mountain regions, and the backwardness of the most disadvantaged areas. the scattered location of the islands and their positioning amongst each other and within the archipelago has created a barrier to supply and trade, which has led to enormous increases in transport costs. i voted in favour of this report because it will improve the situation.
in writing. − in particular, the eu's hard-to-reach regions need to be given more support to enable them to preserve their agricultural diversity. in this context, it is desirable to adapt the existing regime to the evolving eu law and legal framework, taking into account new experience.
in writing. − experts agree that the trend towards rural exodus will unfortunately intensify in the coming years. this is also linked to the massive deaths of farmers. the self-sufficiency of some eu countries is already beyond their means. we must improve the conditions for small farmers and miners to survive. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. and we must promote the development of infrastructure and the interconnection of individual regions. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has confirmed that the outermost regions are characterised by their great distance from the community's internal market and by persistent disadvantages which give them a unique special position within the eu, which justifies the implementation of appropriate measures. agriculture is a strategic economic sector in the outermost regions in two ways. on the one hand, it is one of the main sources of employment and economic development in these regions, and a large proportion of the working population is connected to it. on the other hand, agriculture and its diversification have a link with the concept of food security, which is all the more important for these regions, which are isolated regions on islands and far from the european mainland. the increase in the food self-sufficiency rate, which must lead to a reduction in imports of agricultural products and, at the same time, to an increase in the volume and types of own agricultural products, is of enormous importance for the outermost regions and their development strategies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report deals with specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the outermost regions of the union; this includes overseas regions in portugal, spain and france. the posei programme is indispensable for the agricultural production and processing industries in these regions. without this programme, viability could be threatened by the economic difficulties of the geographical situation. the posei programmes are divided into two different schemes, the supply scheme and the measures for local production, which account for about 80% of total assistance. the posei programmes - special supply arrangements and measures to assist local production - do not require any substantial changes. the financial allocation totalling eur 653 million for the nine regions is insufficient due to the declining share of agriculture in total economic activity. the competitiveness of imports from third countries is also not favourable. sustainable methods should also be applied and the eu should be more vigilant in controlling imports from third countries to avoid unfair competition with local products.
in writing. − while the credit crunch affects small and large enterprises alike, smes have traditionally lower equity capital than larger enterprises and, owing to high information and transaction costs, have limited access to external sources of finance. in the wake of the financial and banking crisis, some lenders were more reluctant to lend to smes. this, combined with the ever-tightening basel capital requirements and the more restrictive handling of supplier credit by suppliers, who in turn are faced with limit cuts by their credit insurance, has driven many smes into insolvency. it is in this situation that it would be useful to constantly reconsider the timely implementation of new basel rules, especially when the us, which exercises the strongest pressure here, is constantly lagging behind in this respect. the present proposal may be well-intentioned. unfortunately, it is feared that once again only a toothless paper tiger will be produced. i have taken these considerations into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. - smes account for 85% of jobs and are the driving force of the european economy. the financial crisis has led to the insolvency of a number of european banks. as a result, banks were less willing to lend to smes and confidence in lending institutions was damaged. access to finance for smes must therefore be facilitated. there is a need for accelerated procedures and single points of contact to encourage start-ups, especially in view of the many otherwise profitable businesses that have not survived the economic crisis and deserve a second chance. the commission also proposes to simplify the application process for eu programmes and to facilitate crossborder activities for smes. however, it must be ensured that the pseudo-independent do not also benefit from simpler structures, especially in the construction sector. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as smes are one of the most important economic agents in the european union, this report, which addresses the specific problems of this form of enterprise and presents possible solutions, is very welcome. improved transparency throughout the lending process and improved communication between stakeholders will provide an important basis for reducing the obstacles faced by smes in planning their borrowing and pending repayment processes in the future. i also support the call for clear rules and regulations in this area and the suggestion that the commission should also support alternative financing mechanisms.
question for the commissioner: madam president, you said that countries with sound finances should set up public programmes. this has, of course, consequences for the finances of these countries. do you think they should be setting up these programmes in their own countries, where there is a relatively high correlation between good employment and - to quote you again - sound finances? or do you think that these programmes should go to countries where the situation is different? my second question is this: you talk about tackling macroeconomic imbalances. do you think that strong countries like germany should be asked to increase their net earnings from their workers, and if so, how will their economies be able to compete internationally outside the eu?
question for the commissioner: mr president, if the united kingdom is doing so well with the options it has chosen, why is it that the situation with real incomes, especially in the areas we are talking about, is so bad that we can no longer speak of an industrial policy or industrial clusters in the united kingdom, but at most of a financial-industrial complex?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester is not so much an economic ideological problem as an intellectual one. the european union's political class has put itself in a straitjacket. what is the usual response when productivity in certain sectors is far behind, public debt is higher and administration is inefficient? they're being undervalued. but i can't. as someone who has long been a supporter of the euro, i can understand that. at the same time, however, the com munication of fiscal policy is politically unworkable. so, the question is, who's going to pay? and it is supposed to be - that is the background of the whole debate - to meet precisely those who - to quote a colleague - have gotten comparatively healthy finances and higher productivity. but how can i make this politically understandable in austria, in germany, where i am faced with a situation where the median income has fallen, so enormous sacrifices have already been made to accurately add to this overall economic situation, which is now well established? how can i say you're gonna have to pay again? how can i explain to a german citizen that france is to reduce the retirement age as a measure to combat the crisis? i can't do that. i fear that many people in this house are lying to themselves, that by such approaches they are actually putting the very heart of the european union at risk. and, finally, and quite provocatively, i believe that in the meantime not so many new cohesion funds and other funds will help, but the promotion of the mobility of countries, of people, of young people to the areas where there are actually jobs that deserve the word. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answering a question about the blue card process for gay mitchell. - yes, yes, no, yes. - what are you doing? so, yes, the european union is not yet complete. yes, we had the worst economic crisis. no, it was not a miracle, but from today's point of view it was a relatively pragmatic and not bad policy that was put in place, but we cannot yet make a definitive assessment. and what contribution the economy has to make in what form is a tricky question. you have in me a great advocate of controlling the over-the-counter banking system. but when i think about the real economy, (the president asked the speaker to be brief. ) if i think of the real economy, we must be very careful that the so-called locomotives, which in fact also bring a lot of wealth into the european union - and seat has something to do with volkswagen, to give an example - are not suffocated by too many burdens in the sense of a misunderstood redistribution.
in writing. the rigid austerity of recent years has not brought europe any further. on the contrary, europe is still in crisis. since 2008, more than 8 million people in the eu have lost their jobs. over 25 million eu citizens are currently unemployed. youth unemployment is at a shockingly high level. instead of investing, creating jobs and boosting domestic demand and thus the economy as a whole, many want to continue on this path of 'saving at all costs'. but we social democrats have other solutions to put europe back on a path of growth and employment. we want a social europe, not a europe of austerity. the first priority must therefore be to combat youth unemployment. the introduction of a youth guarantee in all member states is a hugely important step in this direction. we must invest more in education and training, because that is what makes europe more competitive. at the same time, the labour factor must be taxed less. tax evasion must be effectively combated, as it costs the member states several hundred billion euros a year. i would like to conclude by calling on the member states, and in particular the european council, to finally provide sufficient funds for the urgently needed programmes. only then can we achieve the eu 2020 targets to which all member states have committed themselves.
a well-functioning and forward-looking internal market is a crucial factor for the political and economic future of the european union. the crisis has shown that social inequality contributes to the crisis and favours financial crises. a functioning internal market is built on the participation of all people; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we need measures to boost demand, to put people to work and to stimulate growth. in order to create a single market for all - businesses, workers, consumers, citizens and others - it is urgent to increase the focus currently limited to the interests of employers and to keep a constant check on the compliance and implementation of the measures in the member states. the digital single market is one of the areas with the greatest potential for growth. delayed or non-implementation of existing directives leads to delays. an example of this is the 1995 data protection directive. data protection is one of the most essential prerequisites for the functioning and growth of the internal market, and many member states have not yet implemented it and do not guarantee sufficient protection of sensitive personal data. the future of the european single market lies in measures to overcome social inequalities and ensure data protection.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think this debate today is taking place at a very exciting time. as i said earlier, we are in a very hot phase in the future of agricultural policy, we have been discussing fisheries policy in the past and today we are discussing trade in endangered species. i believe that this upcoming cites meeting, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary these days, the so-called washington convention on the conservation of species, should also be a reminder that we should not now focus on the elephant or the polar bear, but that we should look at these endangered species, which are threatened not only by illegal trade, by poaching, by illegal fishing, but also by the threat to their habitat and their conditions as a whole. commissioner, i had the pleasure of meeting you at the negotiations in nagoya. i saw you there as a true champion of biodiversity and biodiversity. i hope you will show the same commitment in bangkok. we have 59 amendments in the motion for a resolution. we shall vote on this on thursday. we shall see how strongly parliament supports this, because this motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted by the envi committee. i think there is a very clear commitment to protect these species, and i would just like to see this illegal trade, the poaching, the illegal fishing in general, seen as a market that needs to be tackled at all levels, just like the drug market, just like the arms smuggling market. i can therefore agree with you, commissioner, that i too would like to see you in many more meetings in this house, as would the commissioner for health, because i believe that we as european parliamentarians have committed ourselves to a principle, namely to fight for the quality of life of people and animals in this europe, in this world, and we can only do that if we take environmental and health aspects into account in all areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is written in the bible, and we austrians read it diligently, that man should subdue the earth. but what's happening now, what our generation is doing to nature, is really nothing more than a form of exploitation. it's really a shame for our generation that we're exploiting these natural resources in this way. of course, you could say that species have been dying off throughout the history of our planet. it is only when you look at the numbers that you realize that in our generation, in particular, the rate of extinction is particularly rapid, and the extinction of various animal and plant species has reached a scale that is no longer acceptable. we are very short-term. we tend to have these short-term economic interests in mind, without thinking long-term in terms of the ecosystem services that we need as a humanity to survive. this is where we need to focus. i therefore very much welcome the fact that we are sending this conference back with a negotiating theme from the commission. i am sure that commissioner potočnik will take up parliament's wishes and, above all, bring to bear the high level of ambition that we are calling for in parliament, and also force and encourage the member states to speak with one voice. i would like to point out, as my colleagues have done, that it is of course of particular importance for us to include the oceans in this convention. they are, if you will, the breeding ground of all life. it's also where most of the species are, and it's high time we took that step. the transparency of decision-making is also important, as mr eickhout has pointed out. it is a very important point that we should also point out those who are doing this behind closed doors, but who are not doing it in the economic interest. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. we should also bear this in mind. i would ask the commissioner to take these suggestions into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. but i want to raise awareness of the poaching that the commissioner has been doing. it is a fact that the best way to protect endangered species is to make sustainable use of the fauna and flora, to make sustainable use of tourism, such as phototourism on the one hand, but also hunting tourism. where whole regions, tribes, families and tribes are supported by the many tasks associated with tourism, there is respect for wildlife. the local people are there to protect their biodiversity. she's looking out for her livelihood. it is no secret that where hunting is prohibited in this form, there is no careful conservation of the species, but it is precisely there that poaching takes place, as we can see from numerous international studies. i therefore urge you to respect this and to work towards ensuring that sustainable use is best achieved through hunting and phototourism.
question for the commissioner: my question always refers to the national level, because of course we also have to measure ourselves against what comes in at the national level in terms of reforms and efficiency proposals. i would therefore like to know what the situation is in the united kingdom with regard to civil servants. is there a reduction in wages and pensions? what can you bring from your national country here as best practice to europe?
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask you, mr hartong, if you could give us a concrete list of all the proposals you have made, where you think the ep can actually save some money without affecting the work of the members and the whole of the institution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate our secretary-general, mr welle, because i think the concept of 'translation as needed' is exactly what we need. a lot of things are translated that are not actually needed. but if a member has a wish, that wish will be granted accordingly. this should be a matter of course in all institutions. i think we could also make big savings in the european external action service: if the national states were to put their officials at the disposal of the european external action service, then we could make a very large amount of money here without causing any serious damage. i also believe that the cor, the committee of the regions, needs to take real initiatives, such as the examination and impact assessment of legislation, or the eesc, which needs to carry out the so-called sme tests, with a real right of veto. i believe that the salary situation in europe should also be such that meps represent 100% of the population. anything above that should be honestly questioned and adjusted for the long term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to emphasize two points in particular: the current economic and budgetary situation in the eu is highlighted. the second is the question of the objectives of savings. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. some of us want to save a lot of money on interpreting services. but on the other hand, our citizens have a right to know what we are doing here, they want to follow our work here, and they should be able to do so in their mother tongue. and to all those who think that parliament is too expensive, i would also remind them that the ep has lower total per capita costs than comparable parliaments in our member states. the commission has already made this very clear. i would also like to point out that the ep's control function must be strengthened if it is to be able to act fully as a democratic representative body. (the speaker agrees to answer the question of another member in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i think that in some areas, of course, savings can be made, and that the expenditure on chocolate can also be avoided. i agree with her.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur is right to agree with the rapporteur on several points. especially at a time when member states are trying to consolidate budgets, savings must also be made at european level. i hope that this can be said in this house without being immediately denounced as an insult to the monarchy or a destroyer of the european union. however, the savings already begin with me, when deciding on new tasks in the eu, and it would be necessary to clarify in advance: is what we decide to do affordable, and do we want to do it at all, for example the discussion about our european external action service? the potential for savings is small: i am thinking of videoconferences instead of meetings, agencies are certainly a topic to be discussed, and of course a central, single meeting of the conferences - and i am thinking of strasbourg, of course, and less of brussels. this is one of the few points on which i agree with president hollande. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. social responsibility and sustainability should be taken for granted by companies. unfortunately, this is no longer the case, as the financial crisis has clearly shown. the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that one of the fundamental questions in this whole affair is whether it is voluntary or compulsory. but csr cannot and must not be reduced to glossy brochures with embellished figures. this is a sign of the times for all those who see csr primarily as a promotional tool without any real background and who want to abuse it. but environmental declarations and social information from companies must also be transparent. unfortunately, there is still a lot to catch up and improve. we are asking the commission to make a proposal to go one step further and to establish comparability. csr must not only be understood, but also lived. sustainable management and social responsibility are different from promises in brochures that are not meant to be kept.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last decade has particularly highlighted the lack of social responsibility in parts of the economy, and in this respect any approach that increases corporate responsibility for the impact on society should be supported. but how do these demands compare with the pervasiveness of lobbying? in the so-called advisory function, companies sometimes show very little responsibility for society. in particular, it has recently been brought to the fore by the proposal to grant concessions to municipal utilities, namely water supply. i wonder why representatives of large water companies were involved as consultants here. why should the public domain be turned into a speculative asset? the commission has already made a number of proposals. so you don't have to look far to see potential for improvement. it's already starting here in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. companies are part of society, so they also have a responsibility to society. they create jobs and are the engines of the european economy. as my colleague richard howitt's report makes clear, the external exercise of social responsibility is an indispensable condition for credibly correcting the mistakes of the past and restoring lost confidence in europe's economy. the report by my colleague baldassarre makes it clear that by increasing transparency and by integrating csr into the core policies of european companies, negative impacts of corporate activities on businesses can be identified, cushioned and possibly - and above all hopefully - avoided. fair wages, good social security for employees and high health standards are among them. only by taking account of the social contribution of enterprises to society can there ever be a sustained and not just short-term recovery of the european economy. the two reports before us make parliament's position on the csr strategy quite clear. we are calling for greater transparency and disclosure, not just financial disclosure, but also for you, commissioner, to legislate on reporting on compliance with social and environmental standards. it is also important to me to make it clear that european companies also bear some responsibility for the behaviour of their subcontractors. if all companies had to disclose their production standards, it would create a much greater public pressure to force the big players in the industries to adhere to ilo standards and thus create a better and fairer world.
the commission has already done so. i understand the social responsibility of enterprises, as the commission has already said, as part of the framework of values with which we want to create a sustainable economic system in europe. this includes competitiveness, as my colleague mr baldassarre's report very precisely shows. i would like to add my support to the words of thomas mann and also to those of mrs hirsch, who have spelled out the value of voluntary action and the disadvantages of regulation to the point of over-regulation. we are in a situation where i think we want to ensure that the new rules do not impose constraints, especially on small and mediumsized enterprises, because they can endanger the economic security of these enterprises. it simply involves protection against excessive administrative burdens. it is the small and mediumsized enterprises in particular which demonstrate their social responsibility: to their employees, to their environment and to society. and that is to be preserved. the commission has submitted a report to us, and from that we, as the european parliament, have defined social responsibility in both reports. i am also looking forward with great anticipation to the commissioner's report in a few weeks' time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we can now dispute that noise is a health and environmental problem. there are many studies. the who estimates that one million healthy life years are lost each year to noise-related traffic in western europe. i think it's time we took action. the last revision of the directive was a long time ago. it was important for us to look at the overall problem and also to design an overall strategy and to look not only at the engine and the noise-reducing parts of the engine, but also at the tires themselves, at the aerodynamics, at the road surface, etc., because i believe that the perception of noise is a whole, and it's not a single source that is decisive. we must also bear in mind, when we talk about this regulation, that of course every single vehicle must comply with these regulations and that we do not have a fleet consumption or a fleet regulation as in the case of co2 legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to give its opinion on the proposal. so, as i said, we need a specific way of looking at this. the commission proposal is concerned with the outdated classification in annex 3. that was really the main problem, and that is why the legislative process has now taken so long, because it had to be corrected first. with our amendment no 61 we have tried to make this correct classification on the basis of this un recommendation and to propose realistic values. it is, thank god, now also out of the question in this house that we also need extra devices for these electric vehicles to protect disabled people from vehicles that cannot be seen by them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. apart from my full support for this initiative once again, does this mean that the negotiations we have to have on the budget will be with the irish presidency of the council? if mr van rompuy is not our point of contact, then the irish presidency is our point of contact for the budget. is that what i'm getting at?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can agree with what president barroso has said and i can also agree with what mr daul said today and yesterday. but unfortunately, dear joseph, there are people in your faction who poison the climate again and again. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. of course, mr cameron and mr callanan are pleased with this, and i am very grateful to vice-president maroš šefčovič for correcting this. we have a reporter here. you could say we want more. but the governments that criticize do not even come to the negotiating table because they are not prepared to negotiate. that's the scandal we have to fight here. (applause from the centre) because i mentioned cameron: i shall now switch to english to address perhaps some of the few friends of mr cameron who are present here today. mr cameron had a vision. the vision was not the same as when the conservatives were pleading to join the european union, because at that time it was not the vision merely of a big market. if you only have the vision of a big market you do not need a budget, or only a very small budget. you do not need investment, you do not need to fight unemployment that is not for the internal market; but we have a vision of solidarity, of a europe of solidarity, and not everyone in britain shares mr cameron's vision. i was in nottingham where i met young people who have been unemployed. i met 17-year-old leigh. he's already been in prison, he's from a broken family. how did he get a job? it was through european money, through european support, and he wasn't the only one, there were many others as well. the mayor of dover recently said that we can only get out of the crisis with european money. the british academy is sending us letters saying, "please fight for a budget for research and innovation because we need that in britain". i was recently in italy visiting the people in the area of the earthquake. they said "thank you" to europe for helping them but they also knew about the shameful way in which many finance ministers wanted to block the money going to them. i was recently in craiova in romania and they told me there that europe is the only way to get investment in their poor region. this is our europe. this is another vision of mr cameron's, but this is a vision which is closer to the citizen. therefore, we need a budget. it is not a big budget do not exaggerate, do not be so scandalised, it is a very small budget but it must be an efficient budget. i can therefore only agree with what mr barroso said. first of all we need adequate financing for the job we have to do, jobs for young people. yesterday mr hollande was here and mr barroso made a reference to him. i fully agree that this is the future of our europe and we are letting them down, we are not giving them the means for jobs, for education and for research. therefore, we need an adequate budget. but we need to close the gap between commitments and payments it's like a game: big commitments and small payments afterwards. every year, we have to fight for that. we need more flexibility because money which is not spent should not go back home as a surplus for the finance minister, but should be used for those important issues we have to do. we want a strong europe, strong internationally globally but we do not provide enough money for a global economy and a global foreign policy. finally, we also need own resources. we need some steps towards own resources because this shameful game country against country, rebate against rebate this should stop. therefore i think we need, and this is in the interests of our governments and our citizens too, own resources. now how will parliament react? i want to address the council and the minister. tell your colleagues in the council that we will react responsibly, but that does not mean we will accept anything that comes. the principle of "take it or leave it"? it may be that we will leave it. it is therefore important to tell the council that we take this seriously because we are responsible. we want to act in a way which is responsible to our citizens. president hollande and mrs merkel are meeting tonight in paris; i think they will watch the football match. i do not know who will win or should win europe wants to win anyway; this is football, either germany or france. but as for the budget, i do not know who will win. for the budget to be agreed in this parliament, europe must win in the talks tonight and the talks at the weekend. a responsible parliament will reject any agreement which does not respond to citizens' demands and because we are responsible, we will say no. we can say no and we will say no if we do not get a budget which meets the demands of our citizens. be sure of this: this is our answer today and will be the answer after the meeting this weekend. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i want to take the opportunity during the vote on ms parvanova’s report to make one thing clear, and to ask you to refer this to president schulz. mr farage said today, with reference to mr cameron, that there should be continuing discrimination against bulgarian and romanian citizens in great britain. this is not acceptable and i think it should very clearly be the will of this house, and president schulz, to state at the council that we cannot accept that bulgarian and romanian citizens should be discriminated against after the end of the special term for bulgarians and romanians. we are all equal, and bulgarian and romanian citizens cannot be discriminated against. (applause)
in writing. the customs union of the european union was extended by the accession of bulgaria and romania. therefore, there is an obligation under wto law to enter into negotiations with wto member states to compensate for the increase in the captive duty rates and the resulting losses. in order to compensate for a deterioration in trade position, the duty-free tariff quotas for certain products from the usa are being increased. i therefore vote in favour of this compensatory agreement because it shows that the eu is committed to a trading system based on multilateral rules.
in writing. − on paper, it may sound good that the eu is urging its member states to continue to make every effort in the following priority areas: increasing labour force participation and reducing structural unemployment; building a skilled workforce potential and promoting job quality and lifelong learning; promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. in practice, member states themselves have been working towards these objectives long before they were set by the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i rejected the report in protest against this project of centralisation in brussels.
in writing. - the stubborn attitude of many representatives of the european institutions to want to direct the economic policy of the whole of europe from a central position is not in line with historical experience. the state as the driver of an entire economy, particularly in the form of the eu as a super-agency, negates the need for economic policies that are sometimes very different from one region to another. it also ignores the lack of capacity of the state. the role of the state is to provide an important framework and to provide incentives. the mainly inefficient financing programmes through the european social fund lead at best to efficient employment programmes in the short term, but cannot replace the employment effects of an economy. the eu also wants to promote the pooling of national competences at european level. i therefore consider that the report cannot be supported.
in writing. − a comprehensive and active labour market policy is an important part of a successful economic policy. this applies both to individual countries and even more so to the member states of the european union. the main objective of employment policy must be to combat unemployment. in the current situation, the main focus is on combating youth unemployment, but also on providing greater support for older workers. at the same time, the quality of work and adequate pay must be maintained. the coordination of the various member states is of the utmost importance. that is why i voted for the report. the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place' must always be taken into account.
in writing. − the directive on the pricing of medicinal products for human use should bring up to date outdated transparency requirements for all measures for the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products in the member states, without prejudice to their responsibility for public health and financing. it also provided for the price of medicines to be the same throughout the eu and for the authorisation procedures to be harmonised. the idea is that the internal market for medicinal products should be fully open and that there should be equal opportunities in the market. i did not vote for the report because i believe that each member state should continue to have the right to decide for itself, particularly as regards the authorization of medicinal products, the criteria on which a medicinal product is authorized. since the rules differ from country to country, they should also be able to decide on the date of authorisation.
in writing. − the aim of the common fisheries policy is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture are conducted in a long-term, sustainable and ecological manner and that food supplies are guaranteed. i've been working to ensure that all the fish caught are kept on board and eventually landed. the proposal is to introduce an absolute ban on discards, to be phased in from 2014 onwards, according to a timetable that will be specific to each species. in doing so, member states are obliged to ensure that the ban on discarding on board fishing vessels is respected. the objective is to return fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield by 2015 at the latest and by 2020 at the latest. in order to ensure sustainability and planning certainty, long-term plans should also regulate the management of fish stocks.
in writing. − although the new basic regulation is intended to provide an ambitious basis for solving long-standing problems (overfishing, overcapacity, the poor economic situation of many enterprises in the fisheries sector, social problems due to the decline of fisheries in many coastal regions), it is unlikely to be more successful than the previous regulation. although it is of course important that the eu sets a good example in this respect. it would be useful to try first to work on a better implementation of the measures taken so far. nevertheless, i voted in favour of this report because the union should set a good example in this area.
in writing. - the keyword in this vote is sustainability. the current fisheries policy sought to maximise short-term profits and resulted in serious overfishing. but it is not only necessary to stop overfishing, but also to increase the stock. in this way the mistakes and greed of the past can be made good. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the north sea. this wasteful and unnecessary death of many fish has been an accepted collateral damage. this too is now being significantly counteracted.
in writing. − it must be noted that some of the ideas presented here are worthy of support and should be pushed forward. electrically powered vehicles and hybrid vehicles have been heavily promoted in recent years. however, their almost silent propulsion can be dangerous to people with hearing impairments. the engine noise of other vehicles alerts pedestrians, cyclists and other road users to an approaching danger, especially, of course, those who are visually impaired or blind. for them, the noise of vehicles is essential to survive road traffic without being harmed. the introduction of an acoustic warning tone for such vehicles or artificial engine noise seems appropriate to maintain road safety. the desire to reduce traffic noise overall is understandable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. it seems more sensible to force the road to be quieter. i have abstained because of the immaturity of the whole proposal.
in writing. the current economic crisis is affecting the member states of the european union in different ways, as is the case with migration flows and the immense costs associated with them. it is in the interest of all member states to ensure that the flow of migrants from outside europe is managed efficiently, even in the context of the crisis. the southern european countries, particularly those which have been particularly weakened by the economic crisis, are now also having to cope with the continuing flows of refugees from north africa and the arab world. there is a real danger that immigration controls will collapse due to acute financial constraints in individual countries. that is why i am in favour of increasing the funding of the european refugee fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals.
in writing. − in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, some member states have had problems meeting the co-financing requirements for eu aid. the present proposal aims to increase the eu co-financing rate for the member states concerned in relation to migration flows to 70% and to 95% for certain priorities. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. − a regionalised approach to stock management, based on technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources, which establishes rules on fishing areas and gear but does not fix fishing quotas, may be an important part of conservation provisions. the problem, as always, is implementation. i have incorporated these considerations into my voting behaviour.
in writing. − violence against women and girls is still a global problem, occurring in all social strata. this is why the problem must be tackled at national, european and international levels. the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women will be a crucial opportunity to advance women's human rights and to push for global action plans to eliminate violence against women and girls. the eu must play a major role in this and take all the necessary measures to ensure a positive outcome and to eliminate inequalities between men and women. i therefore vote in favour of the motion and i am campaigning for women's rights to sexual and reproductive health.
in writing. − violence against women remains a global problem. it is also a phenomenon that is found in every social class and culture. however, there are some countries in the world where violence against women is still legally covered and even recognized. in particular in islamic countries, men still have the right to beat their wives or even to cause them trouble - a situation which, thanks to immigration to europe, is now becoming more and more common in our countries, but which is intolerable. i abstained because i believe that as long as the practice of beating and abusing women is still common in some religions and as long as these acts of violence are still accepted in this society, campaigns will not be enough to change the way we think. with the increasing number of immigrants to the eu who are of the muslim faith, where the punishment of women is recognized, the eu is faced with a problem for which it must tackle the root of the evil.
in writing. − the fight against violence against women and girls is a key challenge in our society. but this fight must also be waged in the workplace by women. the crisis has seen an increase in violence against women, especially in the workplace. i therefore strongly support this motion for a resolution and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution 'elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls' because women are still exposed to various forms of violence on a daily basis. almost one in four women in the eu is a victim of violence at least once in her life. the resolution calls for the eu and all member states to significantly increase their political efforts to combat violence against women and girls and gender-based violence. the commission is invited to present a europe-wide strategy against violence against women and a legislative proposal for minimum standards in this area. it's about time. violence against women occurs on many levels: psychological, sexual, economic and social. it is both a cause and a consequence of the unequal distribution of power between men and women. the fight against violence against women and gender inequality should therefore be one of the priorities on the european agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for too long, in my view, the kurdish question has been seen as a purely terrorist problem. regardless of how realistic the scenarios of an independent kurdish state may be, it must be said that the right of turkish citizens with kurdish roots to guarantee their fundamental and minority rights cannot be ignored. if one assumes that iran is indeed involved in the syrian civil war, one must also say that turkey is also deeply involved in the conflict by supporting the syrian opposition. the high esteem enjoyed by the pkk among the syrian kurds is therefore becoming more and more of a problem. the fact that talks with the pkk have now been publicly acknowledged is probably due primarily to the fact that ankara is also under strong pressure in view of the ongoing syrian civil war and the real danger of spilling over the conflict to turkey. the current developments, in my view, show once again the high, enormous security risk of turkish membership of the eu. the eu and its member states cannot have any interest in becoming frontline states in a middle east conflict.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike my predecessor, i believe that the pkk is a terrorist organisation. it is financed by arms trafficking, terrorism, drug trafficking, prostitution and protection racketeering. that's why it's still a terrorist organization. i understand the position of the turkish government. i'm not surprised that the left side is a different position. but the debate here is very blind. do you know what turkey has done with the european union's progress report? it simply translated it wrong and submitted the wrong translation into turkish to parliament. the european union minister egemen bağış has said that what the european union writes about turkey is subjective, biased and narrow-minded. and the chairman of the turkish constitutional commission threw this report in the trash on a live broadcast of cnn turkey. what do you want with a partner like that? is this a serious partner who still does not recognise the republic of cyprus, a full member of the european union? the commission's report, which has been incorrectly translated, mentions the greek-administered part of southern cyprus. this is outrageous! the armenian genocide is still referred to as a genocide. this is outrageous! the kurdish problem is being denied. the military operation in which 34 civilians were killed in uludere is still being denied, it is simply murder. turkey has denied this to this day. what do you want with a country like this? this country is not european. this country is not part of europe. turkey will hopefully never become a full member of the european union. the austrian people are 80% against full membership of turkey in the european union and we will therefore continue to oppose full membership. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to welcome the proposal of my colleague. but we must also send it to all the turkish members at the same time, otherwise it will not be forwarded, and we must publish it in turkey itself, because that is not what is done. that's the problem! i mean, i thought it was really outrageous that the turkish government would come along and just mis-translate our report and present it to the public and then in addition to that present another progress report of their own where they portray turkey as a model democracy. i mean, this is so grotesque, it's the worst thing you can do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has rightly expressed serious concerns about human rights and freedom of expression in turkey. this is evident in the undemocratic treatment of kurds, armenians and christian minorities. the turkish authorities have not yet been able to establish a legal basis for the application of the new law. the dialogue on the kurdish question was held on the prison island of i̇mralı a month ago, and it is a welcome development, but there is still some scepticism that this is just a show for the eu. the murder in paris, the imprisonment and conditions of detention of kurdish politicians, journalists and artists, and the terrorist activities of the pkk, on the other hand, speak a different language. the eu, as emphasized here in the house, is more than a modified customs union. it is a union of values based on shared historical and human ideals and must therefore demand appropriate behaviour from turkey, but also from the pkk, especially when both sides in the conflict believe that they must fight in our european homelands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council of human rights has a fundamental problem, unfortunately: its composition. since any un member state can apply for membership without any selection criteria and is elected by a simple majority, states that violate human rights have also been admitted to the council. in 2010, the former special rapporteur on torture, manfred nowak, testified before the council that those states that violate human rights the most are the majority. also, many decisions are not taken from a human rights perspective. the strong islamic states regularly made accusations against countries such as uzbekistan and iran. but even countries that make the highest claims to democracy do not really play by the rules, as was unfortunately the case with israel. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the palestinian authority, which has been a major player in the negotiations with the palestinian authority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the absence of israel at the end of january from that special session, which was to discuss its settlement policy, may be seen as a scandal. it is clear, however, that there are a number of countries on the un human rights council that do not themselves take human rights seriously. in russia, for example, opponents of the regime are known to be arrested, and new human rights violations are reported daily from mali and syria. unfortunately - and this is particularly shameful - the us has also involved a number of other un and eu member states in human rights violations in its fight against terrorism, which is entirely legitimate. we know that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem of the european union is not to be solved by self-imposed dogmas. we must look for ways and means of ensuring that the palestinians have a moderate and non-corrupt political representation, rather than leaving the field to radical islamists like hamas.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's report last year acknowledged bulgaria's progress towards achieving the rule of law in line with eu standards. the establishment of the high council of the judiciary was certainly an important and correct step. the promotion of independence, integrity and efficiency of the judicial system must of course be improved for a people of ancient culture such as the bulgarians. but i am surprised that we are now, in a young member state, using two different measures, which are obviously hypocritical, when we have member states that have been members for a longer time - a little south of austria - and have had the same problems for decades: corruption, crime, organised crime and electoral fraud. we are measuring with two different standards today. i'm not sure that's partisan. i believe bulgaria is on the right track and we should support that right track - honestly, but not hypocritically partisan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i agree with the previous speakers that it will be crucial if we manage to speak with one voice in europe. but more importantly, we need to be clear about what we want for 2015, for the new global climate regime that is coming in 2020. that is the question of substance which we must settle. it is always said that the community, the eu, should lead, and we have a historical debt here. i agree with that too. we must not forget that we are in international competition, but still, we have a debt to pay here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have set ourselves these three objectives. as far as i know, we're actually doing well everywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this also applies to the financial commitments, the fast track financing, which, to my knowledge, has been fully met by europe so far. we should check whether we have really made any mistakes and then see what we can do better. the central problem that we have is that the issue of climate change is clearly losing relevance in public perception, in public debate. we are failing to convince the citizens on the streets that there is an urgent need for action. it is also pointless to paint these horrors on the wall when citizens are on the streets complaining about rising energy costs, when they are complaining about unemployment, and we are enacting policies that go in that direction, and they feel that we are putting them at risk. we are all called upon to convey this message, otherwise it will remain an elite issue and we have no chance of getting the approval of the population. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
author. − mr president, luigi berlinguer from the socialist group is the co-author of this report. he is the heart and the engine of the whole topic and is extremely enthusiastic about it. therefore i would like to thank him. the creation of a true and effective area of freedom and justice in europe cannot be completed without the introduction of a deep judicial culture based on mutual trust within the different national systems. there has been a fundamental change in parliament’s approach towards judicial training in this legislature. this is also due to parliament’s strong and forward-looking position and, in particular, to the reflections hosted by the committee on legal affairs in this house. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the objectives set down in the stockholm programme have paved the way for a substantial increase in the level of european union activity in the field of judicial cooperation. the stockholm programme outlines in particular the importance of strengthening the establishment of a truly european judicial culture which fully respects the principles of subsidiarity and judicial independence. this is also one of the top priorities for policy in the area of freedom, security and justice and therefore for parliament’s committee on legal affairs. this is a top priority of the socialist group in the area of freedom, security and justice. over the coming years, member states will in fact be called upon to implement existing legislative and non-legislative instruments in this field, as well as to participate in the adoption of new instruments. however, this increased law-making activity must proceed in parallel with a harmonious and effective practical application of these tools. in this respect, the role of the members of the judiciary and judicial staff becomes crucial. european judicial training should therefore take a new shape and dimension. the idea behind this, which parliament has tried to promote during the last two years with its numerous resolutions, is to promote a bottom-up approach. this will involve member states’ national associations of legal professionals, such as lawyers, judges and universities, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. we therefore welcome the experience in the netherlands with eurinfra and its network of court coordinators for european law, which has been emulated by other member states, in particular italy, with its european gaius project, denmark, romania and bulgaria. those experiences are designed around three pillars: improving the accessibility of european law information resources using web technology, improving knowledge of european law among the judiciary, and establishing and maintaining a network of court coordinators for european law. there is no excuse today for ignorance of european law. national judges are, and must be, european judges, called upon to play a fundamental role in a situation in which we will need more europe. this does not preclude fostering a european judicial culture in which diversity is celebrated as a common good. we should promote the idea of national court coordinators with european law and their interconnection at european level. in particular the main function of an interconnected network of court coordinators would be to enable judges to readily confer on their day-to-day work with their counterparts in other member states on matters such as the interpretation of the applicable european law in a secure, digital environment. these circles of coherence would make for greater uniformity in the application of european union law, while reducing the number of references for preliminary rulings, without detracting from the role of the court of justice. in developing such search engines for searching judgments, opinions and european union law in general, member states should consider whether this technology might not benefit the judiciary in other member states as well, in which case technology can be pooled, coordinated and developed in common. finally i would just like to thank mr zwiefka for his good cooperation and also for the support in the group in the committee on legal affairs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the training and further education of judges and of those who apply legal norms is unfortunately still far too nationally focused today. in addition, almost every national group believes that its legal system is the best one imaginable. we could learn so much from each other and build trust. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is a clear need because crossborder problems are constantly increasing and because the uniformity of the application of the law is of course also a demand of citizens. this requires training, highly professional and organized. this includes the legal coordinators, and this includes electronic tools that must be developed in a secure environment. the interpretation of european law in force in different member states is becoming central, also for implementation. but this requires not only platforms, not only electronic tools, but also encounters. we are now seeing that fewer and fewer people are being sent to further training in the public service, because in the wake of the financial crisis this is the first thing to be saved. but clearly, this is a savings in the wrong place. citizens have a right to good administration of the law.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not left behind. the european union relies on its geographical indications of origin and is primarily concerned with protecting the areas of origin and the production itself, whereas the americans are pursuing a completely different strategy. in the united states, there is no legal protection of towns or areas per se. i think that this is a reason for us in europe to be very confident in this matter. since 2006, the eu-us agreement on trade in wine has been in force, which has not yet contributed to or led to a solution. it is true that the united states has committed itself to eliminating the use of semigeneric wines and pearl wines, and for some years now traditional names have been banned from american products. but this agreement has not led to a final and, above all, satisfactory solution. i think the commission should put aside its considerations of re-authorising us wines and concentrate on the possible negotiation of a comprehensive trade agreement between the european union and the united states. the commission has already taken a very positive position on this in a report. the commission has already taken a very good example: i think that mutual recognition in the field of organic foodstuffs is a very positive thing to mention. i would also be interested to see how the commission intends to ensure that in future regulations can be put in place to protect consumers and producers on both sides.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i appreciate mr schmidt's attitude, because he is very friendly towards smes and wonders whether the system could also simplify things. do you think it would be possible to make the sme test compulsory for the commission, so that it becomes a real relief for smes that work honestly and not a burden as it currently appears?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe it is important to fight tax fraud, especially vat fraud, in a massive way. we have the famous carousel scam. we have seen it in the emissions trading system, and estimates suggest that vat fraud in europe is roughly equivalent to the european budget. we are talking about scales that are partly achieved in criminal acts around the world. it is therefore important to develop a method of preventing this tax fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore be very concerned if we also considered whether this procedure might also be a way of providing relief from the existing regulations. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner: is it envisaged that an sme test will be carried out in all the member states, that the persons concerned, the tax authorities, and of course also the small and mediumsized enterprises, will be able to make suggestions for improvements, how the system can become more transparent, how the system can become more honest and how we can also support the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises, because we know that the advance tax is often refunded very late across borders and this leads to real liquidity problems in the enterprises, and that many redundancies and dismissals of employees must also be carried out because the failure to refund vat in time leads to the loss of liquidity in the enterprises? i would ask you very warmly, commissioner, to also provide us with an analysis of the delays in the member states in the refunding of vat - i think this is a very crucial question for the future - and also to carry out an impact assessment with the economic and social committee at european level, to look in detail at how fraud can be prevented on the one hand, but on the other hand an effective relief strategy for firms can be created. we have learned from the ets system in particular, and now from the backloading, that this has led to a complete failure, that it has actually been admitted that the ets has failed. i would therefore be delighted if you could perhaps make a proposal for a so-called footprint tax, which would allow the removal of the distance of delivery and the co2 content and then a vat exemption for those products and services which are provided locally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european investment bank's role has become increasingly important since the lehman collapse in 2008, when the smooth banking system cut off access to credit for many companies. it is already the largest multilateral bond issuer in the world by volume. with the recent eur 10 billion capital increase, the eib is likely to further enhance its role as a growth engine in the area of resource efficiency and strategic infrastructure. so far, their strict lending criteria have been rewarded on the market with an interest rate of around 2% on 10-year aaa bonds. the eib has to raise all its money on the financial market before it can lend it to businesses on favourable terms. this makes a stronger focus on activities within europe desirable, not only in the programme countries but also in the well-established eu countries. this also avoids the risk of duplication and conflicts of interest with the european bank for reconstruction and development. in particular, the provision of credit to smes, which are particularly affected by the credit crunch, must remain a key priority. since eib loans often support eu funding, such as that from the regional infrastructure cluster, it is all the more important to facilitate access to eu funding for smes.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) * * * * * * * * *
i should like to inform you, mr president, that the president of the house is aware of this incident and that he will take it up with the conference of presidents in order to draw the right conclusions. we're sorry about what happened.
we shall discuss these matters together in the conference of presidents.
i have already indicated that this question will be discussed in the conference of presidents, that the incidents are known and that the president will clarify the procedure with the group chairmen.
i ask you to respect the rules of procedure. that was not a point of order.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. − the european union is facing a significant ageing population. in 2060 there will be only two people of working age for every person over 65; today, the ratio is 1 to 4. in addition, the population aged over 65 will almost double between 2008 and 2060. in figures, this means that some 151 million people will be over 65 years of age. the older generation could become a major burden on the working population, but still be so active that their living space and social utility need to be adapted. there is a growing demographic change that needs to be addressed. however, the labour market will also have to change, as active ageing will be expected to lead to an increase in the retirement age if society is to continue to meet the generational contract. i did not vote for the report because it is doubtful whether an artificial change in the social structure and the environment will actually make life more pleasant for the elderly. the report does not indicate whether the opposite might be true, namely that the elderly would be overburdened.
in writing. − it is shameful to call for a further inflation of the eu budget in the midst of this financial and economic crisis that holds europe and the world hostage. the citizens of europe must tighten their belts ever tighter, they must feel the real impact of this crisis and must see that their hard-earned salaries are making it increasingly difficult for them to make ends meet. the european union must recognise that it must also save on its own, and accordingly the 2014 budget cannot include any increase in resources. instead of constantly asking for more money, we must finally put the red pen to work and exploit the immense potential for saving. the budgetary increase is to be rejected for the simple reason that the eu has not been able to stop the large-scale fraud in the subsidy sector. billions of dollars of taxpayers' money are lost every year in this area with no effective countermeasures.
in writing. - in our society, companies are increasingly faced with the challenge of social responsibility. this means that the voluntary contribution of the economy to sustainable development must go beyond the legal requirements. social responsibility is essentially three-fold: responsible business practices, environmental aspects and relations with employees. however, the idea of social responsibility has so far been mainly adopted and implemented by large companies or groups. the concept and implementation of csr are still lacking, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. i voted for the report because i believe that it is necessary to support smes in particular in their social responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. furthermore, as the report points out, there is still a lot to be done, especially at the micro level, to familiarise smes with the various concepts of svu.
in writing. - i voted for the report on corporate social responsibility, as industry should take on more social responsibility. corporate social responsibility is the commitment of companies to the environment and to society. the latter is particularly important in times of financial and economic crisis, with aggravated social problems such as youth unemployment and poverty, in order to maintain social peace. corporate social responsibility ultimately benefits companies in two ways: on the one hand, such measures promote citizens' confidence in the economy, and on the other, businesses themselves can contribute to the development of the communities in which they operate.
in writing. - the commission has put forward a proposal, which is generally welcome, to give member states more effective means to respond to and combat vat fraud. a special rapid reaction mechanism would be used for various control measures. i have agreed to the european parliament's amendments because they reiterate the importance of combating tax evasion, especially in times of financial and economic crisis with the resulting tight budgets. the call for a long-term eu anti-fraud strategy is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted against the european parliament's recommendations for the 2013 annual growth survey. i think that the report does not take a critical enough view of the austerity policy. radical austerity in times of economic crisis, especially in countries already under massive pressure, exacerbates the situation. the state should invest and create jobs. if government spending is massively cut, this leads to an increase in unemployment and, as a consequence, to less tax revenue and more debt - a vicious circle that can be observed in the european crisis countries. the recommendations also include the call for 'open markets and a level playing field' in all sectors. i don't agree with that. there are areas which should not be subject to market principles, such as social security benefits. i would like to say that i am not in favour of a report which criticises the 'too high' level of protection afforded to workers.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in laos, large areas of land are leased to chinese and vietnamese companies without asking the people or being adequately compensated. the more lucrative these leases are for the communist rulers. the issue of land rights was the focus of a symposium just co-organised by sombath somphone. and now the 60-year-old is missing, and the surveillance videos clearly show that somphone was abducted by the police. while diplomats may see a tentative political opening in this communist state, this example clearly shows that it is still a dictatorship - which the eu supports by the millions. such blatant violations of the basic rights of the laotian people - such as the destruction of livelihoods by land grabbing, the suppression of freedom of expression - must be clearly and forcefully put on the agenda of the next bilateral negotiations between the union and laos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mugabe and his pseudo-revolutionary clique have indeed succeeded in systematically reducing one of africa's formerly most prosperous countries to a poorhouse in a few decades, at the latest after the brutal expulsion of white farmers and the associated so-called land reform. in 2007, zimbabwe established two national human rights commissions, but only as a distraction from the serious human rights violations. however, a senior eu official recently offered the prospect of an end to sanctions if zimbabwe conducts a peaceful and credible constitutional referendum. but such a referendum is not a matter for debate under the mugabe dictatorship, as the recent human rights violations drastically prove. so, i fear that travel bans, repeated resolutions alone will not be enough to rid zimbabwe of mugabe and his clique. so we need a clear suspension of the partnership agreements and we need to insist that the human rights clause be included.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just have a question about the procedure, how we're going to do it in the future, so i can get a little orientation. how many speakers do you allow to be left with a blue card? can we work this out? could you be a little more specific? i was used to speakers being given the blue card and then being questioned. but you also allow - and i can live with that - that you can also question speakers who have come further back with the blue cards. please explain this to me. i will, of course, abide by the rules. but i want to be clear.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the skepticism of people about vaccines is as old as vaccines themselves. but to use this skepticism to incite or commit violence and murder against medical personnel is a treacherous, cowardly act. the rumors that the cia, disguised as medical teams, also carried out covert paramilitary operations, are fueling resentment and may even be the cause of violence. if this suspicion is true, the cia should be reprimanded. it was foreseeable that this would seriously damage the trust of the pakistani public in the ngos' helpers. whatever the hostility and violence against medical workers, the current situation is a disgrace, firstly because the selfless commitment and courage of many ngo workers has been rewarded with violence and murder, making it difficult to recruit volunteers, and secondly because the fight against polio has been largely suspended in pakistan, leaving humanity on the sidelines once again. we therefore expect the pakistani government to do its utmost to ensure the safety of the aid organizations and to ensure that the standards set by the world health organization are not withheld from its own people.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mrs liotard, i have a question: we have programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs which encourage women to become young entrepreneurs or to start businesses and then to employ women again. do you think that we in the european union should give more support to such programmes?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not women are affected by the economic crisis on a variety of levels. i would like to give three examples. firstly, budget cuts affect women more than men. let us think of the women who work in the public service, representing almost 70% of the workforce. in the public sector, however, job cuts are also making considerable progress. secondly, consider the everyday situation on the labour market: many women work part-time - in 2011 it was at least 31.6% - and for much lower wages; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the adoption of a new law on the protection of children against the risks of violence. and thirdly, i would like to draw attention to the situation of women in terms of violence. the crisis has increased violence against women. harassment of various kinds, including and especially at the workplace, and domestic violence are also present. there's a lot to do to not just tell women that equality is a fundamental right. i believe that it requires the commitment of all of us to make equality a matter of course. and i see increased investment in education and training initiatives as a possible approach to ensuring that women have better and more equal opportunities. women are empowered by the knowledge they acquire, they are less vulnerable and, above all, they can act on an equal footing in professional life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the issue of equality will soon also concern us in the draft law on the quota of women on supervisory boards. but how do equality and the share of women fit together from the point of view of the individual worker? commissioner, imagine that you are not hired as the most qualified of a group of applicants because you are a man. you'll be told that too. the criterion of rejection would therefore be gender. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but equality is not based on figures and statistics alone, but above all on the subjective perception of the individual in his daily life. the opposite of equality would therefore be the rejection of the profession described. men and women would not be equal from the point of view of those affected. i think it would be much more important to combat in practice the great inequalities in the remuneration of women in working life. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not first of all, thank you for the question, and perhaps for the opportunity to clarify it. i made it clear that this is problematic. i cannot imagine that the criterion can be only statistics and figures, but that qualifications must also be taken into account. and to consider someone just because he's a man or a woman, i don't think that's fair. in addition, in some countries there are of course other ways of getting on a supervisory board, either by appointment or by election. this would also create problems in individual countries because of the legal situation.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not my question is this: we now have horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility in the financial framework. what do you think we can achieve here in relation to the council?
in writing. the development of trans-european energy infrastructure should be promoted. the guidelines shall specify how strategically important projects of common interest are to be identified. the development of infrastructure is particularly necessary through the use of renewable energies, as these provide for extreme peak power in the grid that must be covered. so wind farms are of little use to us if the energy cannot be transported on windy days. the regulation focuses on the transmission network level. the distribution network level is virtually excluded. the eu is thus promoting electric motorways, but forgetting the up and down routes. from the perspective of the project promoters, the eu creates a uniform formal framework. however, the deadlines are very long.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not we have also made a success story here in europe in reducing co2 emissions. we're all set here. by 2020, europe will truly be the most exemplary region in the world in this area. my question to mrs van brempt is: what will happen next? can you imagine that instead of the ets system we would introduce a so-called carbon footprint tax, whereby for those products and services that are produced with very little carbon footprint, we would reduce the value added tax for consumers accordingly, in order to make energy more affordable?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that the objectives of a planned economy are rarely realistic. if the target is to achieve an 80% emission reduction by 2050, with transport likely to achieve only 60%, energy production would have to be virtually co2-free. now we all know that one of the greatest pr stunts in the eu is to promote nuclear power stations as environmentally friendly bypassing co2 reduction. how environmentally friendly they are, fukushima has shown recently! and it continues to accept a significant reduction in the cost of nuclear technologies, by undercutting the cost of final disposal, not to mention those nuclear accidents. at best, there are no consequences to the akw stress tests as a tranquilizer. so it's not surprising that renewables are not doing well in the energy roadmap. last but not least, in recent years there has been a lot of pressure at eu level to promote renewable energy. and we should all reject it together!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european-wide nuclear power plant stress tests have revealed safety deficiencies in almost all of the 134 nuclear power plants. these stress tests did not even take into account factors such as material misuse, human error or terrorist attacks. without pressure, european energy companies alone are unlikely to raise the estimated 10 to 25 billion euros for retrofitting. finally, even in germany's supposedly safe nuclear power plants, safety risks have so far been eliminated only to a limited extent. so the shock of fukushima will remain ineffective as long as brussels ignores the fact that no power plant is truly safe and that emergency systems must be designed to function even in the worst of chaos. and if nuclear power plant operators do not have to pay for final storage or the costs of a nuclear accident, but may still make money on decontamination work, little is likely to change. that's something to be feared and said.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you mentioned that you didn't make any friends in paris and london with your stress tests. i'm sure you've made friends among the people, but not with the governments. but we are all here to ensure the safety and health of our fellow citizens. and i think the stress test you've arranged is an important step in that direction. nuclear technology in particular is a dangerous technology. it has a transnational impact, so it is logically a clear european competence, and in the long term the member states will have to understand this. secondly, i agree with mr turmes that the cost argument is at issue. if we really do a full cost calculation - taking into account really all costs - then it will become clear that nuclear energy is a very expensive energy. it must be our concern to clarify this cost truth. then i'm sure we can rely on other forms of energy and not on this dangerous technology. it is also clear that any energy technology has an impact. but we must minimize the impact as much as possible, and nuclear energy is hardly possible!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the safety systems in fukushima had collapsed in the aftermath of a tsunami. after the disaster, the nuclear power plants in europe were also subjected to so-called stress tests. the study covered 145 reactors in 15 member states. the tests showed that almost all power plants need to be retrofitted at a cost of billions. we must therefore draw the only correct conclusion: a gradual phase-out of nuclear energy throughout europe and a reorientation of euratom towards renewable energy sources. it is precisely because of the incalculable risks of serious accidents and the lack of sustainability that leading nuclear nations such as germany have finally decided to withdraw. finally, the still unresolved question of liability in the event of nuclear accidents is another aspect of the uncalculated risks. and we should take that very seriously!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome this agreement, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow. basically, what we have to say is that the important thing in climate policy is that we spread the burden across all sectors. it is therefore important that we include the lulucf sector in this and that we now also agree on common standards and fulfil our commitments in this respect under the kyoto protocol. it is also important that we are aware that we are still at the beginning of climate policy. that is why it is also important that we implement the decisions we have made and see how they affect us. it is not as easy as in many other areas, but the data base is not yet so secure. that is why, as regards the second report, it is very important that we now collect this data, that we have common rules and that we draw the right conclusions from it. only then can we be sure that we are taking the right action. the fact is that europe has taken a leading role in climate change policy. but it's also a fact that other parts of the world have more greenhouse gas emissions, but they're making efforts. we need to look at the international level now, which approach is most likely to lead to that goal, so that we can actually meet our own co2 and temperature goals by 2050. the only important thing is that we take it slow and don't jump back and forth all the time, because otherwise we can't estimate the concrete impact of our decisions. so these are two choices that have to be made and that are right. but in the long run, we should not be constantly swerving, but rather following a straight line.
in writing. emissions trading is a misconception. for example, given the current decline in the price of co2 allowances and the current low price of coal, it is worthwhile to supply climate-damaging coal-fired power. in fact, some 50 new plants are reportedly being planned or under construction in the eu. the automotive industry is also considering ways to prevent fines for emissions from suvs. the commission must be clear that the planned super-credits for plug-in hybrids accelerate the sale of comparatively 'low emission' off-road vehicles rather than incentivise co2-saving innovation. if we are to find solutions to climate change, then at least we must put an end to emissions fraud. in any event, emission allowances must not continue to give rise to so-called carousel fraud in the vat field. the success of the allowance trade, whose hidden development aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them, remains questionable, even if all possibilities of fraud are eliminated. the fact that the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of the support for renewable energy is a source of distortion. in the long term, therefore, emissions trading must be either fundamentally restructured or completely abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we urgently need to reform the eu lobbying transparency register. because right now, a lot of active lobbyists don't register with this registry, a lot of active lobbyists are giving inaccurate, incomplete information, and that information is not really being corrected and controlled. if we maintain this standard, this lobbying register will fall into massive disfavor with the citizens. our claim must be that we meet a high standard, that we deliver high quality. now is the opportunity for reform. there are already some talks. the central point of this reform is, of course, that we have a mandatory lobbying register for all the institutions and bodies here in the european union, and that there are, of course, reasonable control and sanction possibilities. this reform process must of course be open and transparent. there's no point in us negotiating any cosmetic changes in back rooms.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i share your view, commissioner, that we have one of the best food law systems in the world. however, it is also a fact that in recent years we have been rocked by food scandals. the recent scandal also shows the scale and the problems in this sector. so we should not say: 'we have a super system that needs to be changed a little bit', but we should look at it and i hope that the commission will do so in its report, which is really something that needs to be improved. it is also not wise to say now: 'the member states are responsible for control, we make the basic rules here.' we - and the commission in particular - have a special responsibility at european level to make this sector work. our biggest problem is that we've lost so much consumer trust. that's the real problem we have right now. restoring that trust will be very difficult and very costly. that's why i'm sure the first step, which you mentioned, is that we need to clarify. it was criminal, and you're right about that, too. it cannot be prevented completely. but we have to think about what kind of control system we can put in place to make it potentially uninteresting, especially economically uninteresting, for these things to happen. the commission should sit down with mathematicians and calculate how expensive it would really be to carry out these checks on a sample basis, perhaps to increase them here and there, so that we can set up a control system that is as cheap as possible but very effective and efficient. the commission is called upon to make these recommendations. secondly, it is certainly worth examining the penal framework in the various member states. some states are very strict, others are very lax. this too must be adapted so that the same level of punishment is applied throughout europe. thirdly, the building of consumer confidence. the report now being drawn up by the commission is certainly the foundation on which we are now to build. the required origin marking, the marking of where animals are fattened, where they are slaughtered and where they are then fed into the food chain, is very helpful to the consumer when making his consumer choice. of course, in the food sector in particular, it is very dangerous to have a greedy-is-greedy mentality, because that tends to lead to lower quality. it must be in the interests of europe, the commission and of course parliament and the council that we set the highest possible standards here, that we put the safest possible food on the table and that we give our consumers what they really want, namely safe and, above all, properly declared food!
i have to say, madam president, if we want to promote crossborder trade in goods and services, we also need cost-effective and efficient means of enforcement. legal proceedings, especially in a crossborder context, are often only affordable for large companies. consumers and smes are already struggling. i too would be sceptical about doing business in another country if i had to go through a time-consuming and costly process in the event of a dispute. this is particularly true of the growing online commerce. without adequate legal protection, consumers and smes will remain suspicious. the dispute settlement bodies in the field of electronic commerce could help to remedy this situation. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. hate and hate crimes begin in people's minds, continue through language, and then manifest themselves in acts of violence. the fight against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, anti-gypsyism and homophobia must therefore start with the language of incitement. and it happens, even when politicians speak out, it happens on posters, but also in racist language in lyrics by musicians, for example. in many parts of the european union, racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, violence against roma, homophobia and transphobia have increased in recent years. this has been repeatedly stated in reports by the fundamental rights agency. some examples: in hungary, a prominent member of jobbik has called for a jewish list, arguing that jews are a security risk. in austria, anti-semitic incidents doubled from 2011 to 2012. as for the roma, recently in germany a csu politician called them social parasites. in hungary, fidesz co-founder zsolt bayer compared roma to animals and said they shouldn't exist. homophobia and transphobia: the director of the fundamental rights agency, morten kjaerum, recently visited lithuania and stated that in a survey of more than 90 000 lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in the eu-27 and croatia, 25% said they had been subjected to physical attacks in the last five years. in greece, lesbian/gay organizations report that there is an alarming increase in homophobic and transphobic crimes and incitement. in sweden, for example, only 7% of xenophobic, racist crimes are solved, while 17% of other crimes are solved. according to unhcr, there were 87 racist crimes in greece between january and september 2012. i am very pleased that the irish presidency has now also taken an initiative, but let me say that more needs to be done. mechanisms such as the exchange of best practices or a holistic approach are important and good. but we cannot accept the reproach - from candidate countries, for example, from whom we always demand the rule of law, respect for minority rights - that we do not do this in the european union itself. that is why i think it would be important to have something like a copenhagen commission. the commission has already said that it is not possible to do so without the support of the european parliament. this would be important, like the venice commission of the council of europe, where experts actually make comparisons and formulate demands.
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, i suspect that you were criticising the fact that we tried, and we also tabled some amendments to this common resolution that criticise several things that are happening in several member states. i hear from you that you are criticising that. i would like to ask you whether you would not agree, learning also from our own history as the european union, that hate crimes started with hate speech. language is something that incites and then gives more openness to violence, so why should we not name those who are responsible for that?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner a question on a specific case. in austria, as you know, we have no numerus clausus in universities, which means that a lot of german students come to austria to study, especially in medicine. this, of course, does not make the austrian students very happy. that is a fact, and it is understandable. now a public body, the austrian university students' association, financed by compulsory student contributions, has called for a demonstration, interestingly against german students in austria. occasionally, one could also see posters saying "germans out". i am of course asking the question: is this acceptable coming from a left-wing organisation? will it be approved? or is it possible to do so if it is directed against germans, since that is 80 million without any need? i would think that the outcry should be just as loud if it comes from a left-wing organization. the same should be true of the outcry against germans, and not just against smaller groups in europe. so it would be very interesting to hear from you, commissioner.
i have to say, madam president, i do not want to criticise your conduct of the sitting, but i was just worried that some of the gentlemen here would really be able to withstand the nervous strain of this work, and i would ask you to be careful that nothing happens to you up there in the back during a sitting. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − the development of transeuropean energy infrastructure should be promoted. the guidelines shall specify how strategically important projects of common interest are to be identified. the development of infrastructure is particularly necessary because of the use of renewable energies. because these are creating extreme performance peaks in the network that need to be covered. so wind farms are of little use to us if the energy cannot be transported on windy days. the regulation focuses on the transmission network level. the distribution network level is virtually excluded. the eu is thus promoting electric motorways, but forgetting the ups and downs! that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - in my view, it is still untenable that nuclear power is accepted cheaply in the energy mix. the report and all the comments on it are not in any way critical of nuclear power. nor is there any explicit reference to abolishing nuclear power and building up the energy mix without the risk factor of nuclear power. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. − the extension of vienna airport was subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) by the responsible federal ministry. as a result, several complaints have been lodged with the eu commission since 2006, claiming that these environmental impact assessments do not meet the european standard and that the commission should respond by asking the operators' organisation for further eias. but since the european commission did not act and committed the corresponding errors, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union and its institutions should always act in the interests of its citizens. in this sense, i consider the ombudsman's intervention in this case to be very useful. the contradictions or shortcomings in commission decisions in the context of an eia procedure concerning vienna airport identified by the ombudsman are obvious. i agree with this report and believe that the commission should follow the ombudsman's latest recommendation, reconsider its approach and address the shortcomings identified in the interests of european citizens.
in writing. - the proposals for the harmonisation of accounting standards mentioned by the rapporteur are very welcome, as they will make the management of greenhouse gas emissions and their reduction more transparent and fair. the implementation of land use, land use change and forestry management is a step in the right direction towards effective eu-wide emission reduction regimes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. this is in addition to the specificisation of existing agreements, and takes into account the new unfccc commitments to provide financial and technological assistance to developing countries. the collection, analysis and provision of sufficient and comprehensive data on greenhouse gas emissions is an important basis for addressing climate change.
in writing. − in principle, it may be a good idea to set up a free interactive website in all the eu's official languages as a single point of contact for consumers and businesses to resolve out-of-court contractual disputes. this voluntary system will not, however, be sufficient to improve consumer protection in a sustainable way. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − the regulation on the online settlement of consumer disputes is an important step towards strengthening legal certainty for consumers. more and more people are making online purchases, and often these are cross-border. in disputes with dealers that may arise from such purchases, customers usually take the short cut. this is why it is necessary to provide consumers with an opportunity to access and obtain information on out-of-court dispute settlement online. the regulation creates a european platform for precisely such cases.
in writing. − the introduction of an online dispute resolution platform is highly desirable in times of strong growth in cross-border online sales of goods and online provision of services. the system is particularly positive in that it applies to both consumers and businesses. it makes an important contribution to a europe of free movement of goods and facilitates access through its free access and availability in all official languages.
in writing. − the present proposal aims to create a simple, convenient and cost-effective means of settling disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services within the eu. this voluntary system is in principle to be welcomed, but it will not be sufficient to improve the legal protection of consumers in a lasting way. i voted in that direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on alternative forms of consumer dispute settlement, as the entry into force of the legislative initiative will strengthen the rights of consumers. this will enable all citizens to resolve disputes about purchases quickly and inexpensively. the fact is that consumers are afraid of lengthy and costly legal proceedings and are thus denied their rights. the out-of-court settlement of disputes can counteract this and thus strengthen the autonomy of consumers.
in writing. - in any case, it is important to promote the protection of consumer rights and to strengthen their position. the expansion of adr entities described in this report, as well as the improvement of their infrastructure and awareness, will make an important contribution to helping consumers enforce their rights. alternatives to the judicial process in dispute settlement are often desirable for all for cost reasons and should be supported accordingly.
in writing. − the european countries and territories in the atlantic, caribbean and pacific are outposts of european culture and values in the world and, because of their special geographical location, offer important economic and political opportunities for the union. the new association decision is essential for the union's continued positive cooperation with the overseas regions of europe, as the old agreement of 2001 will expire at the end of this year. in order to continue the positive cooperation with these areas and to put them on a new legal basis, i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the report is very positive, as it is well researched and relevant to the eu, alongside sound reasoning. the overseas countries and territories play a crucial role in the eu, as they are 'external bases' for dealing with issues of interest to the eu (such as globalisation or international trade). the octs also have natural resources and a range of options which make them innovative actors in international negotiations. nevertheless, the octs must continue to be supported.
in writing. - i supported this motion to guarantee the safety and health of the citizens of the european union. in view of the negative experience of the past and the fact that states and companies have repeatedly attempted to cover up radioactive incidents, it seems appropriate to set low limits for ionising radiation in order to detect and respond to potential contamination at an early stage. clean drinking water and free access to it is a fundamental right of our citizens which cannot be restricted, and it is the duty of the authorities to ensure that it remains so.
in writing. - the rules of the so-called 'two-pack' severely restrict the capacity of nation states to act and are totally unacceptable. the budgetary rights of parliament are being cut and hollowed out so massively. but this is one of the most important rights of democratically legitimised national parliaments. the eu institutions suffer from a democratic deficit which has been somewhat reduced in recent times but which still persists. instead of increasingly sharing decisions and delegating powers to the eu, there is a need for the development and upgrading of the nation states in many areas. the fact that the framework conditions for national budgets are now dictated by the commission bureaucrats in brussels is unacceptable and that is why i voted against these proposals.
in writing. - i voted for the two-pack legislation because the current framework for stronger fiscal surveillance is no longer aimed at unilateral savings as originally planned by the commission, but contains more social rules for countries in crisis. we have seen that the current austerity policy is the wrong way forward and does not help the member states in crisis. in future, the eu commission will have to assess the social and economic impact of austerity measures on an economy. the troika will have to report to the eu parliament on the obligations imposed on crisis countries in future these rules will make budgetary control more democratic and transparent. the creation of a soli fund, a debt-repayment fund and the introduction of euro notes are other important objectives which will lead to greater solidarity within the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as a trade unionist, i saw this as a central demand in the negotiations. the commission must not use the crisis as an excuse to reduce workers' rights! the procedures and institutions for wage formation must continue to be fully respected.
in writing. − the establishment of a system of targeted surveillance measures for member states threatened or affected by difficulties with respect to their financial stability is highly desirable, especially with a view to a strong and stable euro area, also after the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − a comprehensive system for monitoring and assessing general government budgetary positions and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states is desirable in order to help the european union overcome the financial and economic crisis and to promote a positive future development.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to specify the criteria for the assets that a fund must meet in order to be designated as a 'european venture capital fund' and to obtain the corresponding passport. the creation of a european venture capital fund for smes is intended to counteract the massive increase in credit shortages since the banking crisis, which in my view is not in the cards, although it is questionable to what extent it can counteract the tightening of credit linked to the basle guidelines. i think it is more sensible to finally make it easier for smes to access eu funding and to speed up the long overdue reduction of bureaucracy.
in writing. - the above regulations and rules governing the nature, form, conduct and portfolio of the funds which may ultimately be described as 'european venture capital funds' seem to me to be appropriate. the requirements for transparency and investor confidence, the obligations and rights and the broadly defined behaviour between parties are also sufficient. i agree with this report because it contains a sufficient catalogue of criteria for the definition of european venture capital funds, which means that only suitable funds can be so designated.
in writing. − there is a growing interest among investors in social objectives, not just financial returns. this has created a market for social investment in europe (part of which is investment funds targeted at social enterprises). these funds finance social enterprises that drive social change through innovative solutions to social problems and make a valuable contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives by helping to address the social consequences of the financial crisis. the aim is to create a common framework for the use of the term 'european social entrepreneurship funds'. in particular, eu-wide rules govern the composition of the portfolio of funds and the categories of investors that can invest in such funds. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the removal of barriers is also intended to avoid distortions of competition.
in writing. − the economic crisis has had a profound impact on public budgets, the labour market and poverty. structural imbalances that women have already had to contend with are being exacerbated by the crisis: almost one third of all women in employment in the eu work part-time. they are more likely to be made redundant and often work unpaid. the current difficult situation on the labour market is pushing women even further into precarious and atypical employment relationships. public austerity and budget cuts also affect women more, because they are more likely than men to be employed in the sectors affected by austerity (health, education, etc.) and to be dependent on certain transfer services (e.g. provision of childcare facilities). the report also calls for the adoption of a new policy on the environment, which will be based on the principle of subsidiarity. policies, especially austerity measures, should be specifically analysed for gender implications and adapted accordingly.
in writing. − “as women we still ‘struggle’ on the labour market, as men we, sometimes, gain more than a woman for the same job.” in order to reduce gender inequalities at eu level but worldwide as well, to positively promote the image of the women in areas such as the labour market and jobs, education and culture, business promotion and economic growth, i voted in favour of the report. the gender pay gap, exacerbated by the financial crisis, the budgetary austerity policies (cuts in social security benefits) and all the other elements that still contribute to women falling into poverty have to be fought against.
in writing. - media and language convey images and therefore have a special social function. the media, which should be the ones to promote an enlightened image of women, are the ones that are doing the opposite: they are still too often conveying a traditional image of women. the report calls for important policy measures to combat stereotypes and sexism in the media. but here is another fundamental question: who sets the rules? i am firmly opposed to the concept of 'industrial voluntary commitment' as it is repeatedly pushed and demanded, mainly by industry representatives. i therefore support the motion to delete paragraph 14, which would give internet providers the power to rate content and, as a result, censor it. the industry is primarily driven by profit interests and has no democratic legitimacy. we, as members of the european parliament, should be particularly aware that the sovereign, the electorate, has entrusted us with the monopoly on 'lawmaking', and we should therefore resolutely resist attempts to undermine it. the commission has therefore decided to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. − to date, eu environmental policy has failed in many areas or has proved to be a toothless paper tiger. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. for example, the success of the trading of allowances, which by concealing aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them, even if all possibilities of fraud are eliminated, remains questionable. the fact that the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of the support for renewable energy is a source of distortion. in the long term, therefore, emissions trading must be either fundamentally restructured or completely abolished. the environmental commitments often do not go beyond the paper on which they are written, given the billions of dollars of subsidies that are used to the contrary. it is a shame how money is redistributed and thrown out the window in this area. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. − full implementation of eu environmental legislation can create jobs and save a lot (according to studies, €72 billion per year). there are problems in the implementation of measures, in late or insufficient implementation and in 'over-implementation'. poor application is harmful to the environment and human health, causes insecurity for businesses, affects the internal market and causes additional administrative burden and costs. the aim of eu legislation is to tackle the causes of environmental damage. this concerns provisions on the legal and social responsibility of enterprises, which commit enterprises to open up to the strategy for sustainable development. the benefits include a level playing field for economic players in the internal market, the creation of incentives for innovation and the benefits for eu companies of being at the forefront. a high level of environmental protection is one of the eu's fundamental objectives and brings direct benefits to citizens, such as better living conditions through better air quality, less noise and fewer health problems.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i agree with what mr jørgensen said. we are facing a very great challenge and we should make a change in agricultural policy. this is not only true of the recent food scandals - the last one was a criminal one - but also before that; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in some areas, i fear they are not going far enough to make this change sustainable. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore ask all members to look carefully at this vote. there are many areas where we can certainly do something to ensure that production in europe is safe in the future, that we produce healthy, affordable food, but also that the countryside becomes a social habitat. i would ask you to make a decision in this respect for yourselves, for the agricultural workers, for the consumers and above all for the future!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the art of re-shaping the common agricultural policy is to take account of the diverse structures of european agriculture and to do justice to them. rural development is the green heart of agriculture and the countryside as a whole in many countries. we shall all be voting tomorrow in favour of a very clear commitment to the future greening of agriculture. one of the key requirements in this context is the inclusion of the greening programmes, so that there is no entry barrier for the agri-environment programme and organic farms or natura 2000 farms. the agri-environment programmes go much further in the environmental field than the three greening proposals. the eligibility of agri-environmental and bio-greening programmes would simplify administration and avoid disadvantages for those farms which have voluntarily opted for additional services. the term 'double payments' is more than misleading in this context. we have clearly decided in the committee on agriculture and rural development that there must also be an equivalence to the greening measures in the direct payments. another important area is the redefinition of disadvantaged areas. the commission intends to replace the existing index system by redefining the other lessfavoured areas according to eight biophysical criteria. model calculations show that the new criteria would have a massive impact on the division of the areas. but nevertheless it is unacceptable that we as the european parliament have not yet received a complete presentation of the simulations from the council in the codecision procedure. the diversification has allowed the development of very successful tourist projects such as farm holidays and social projects such as the 'social farm'. cooperation, regional cycles and sustainable investment are other priorities and thus also important areas of rural development. we have heard and read a great deal of negative and critical remarks about agricultural policy in the recent past. as a negotiator for the european people's party, i can say that we take this very seriously. let us improve this agricultural policy together, but let us not forget the farmers, because they have to cultivate our land and provide us with food!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, many interest groups are involved in the cap reform across all the political groups. so let us stick to the main points: food security for the eu and support for rural development - i.e. direct payments must be reserved for those farmers who actually produce food - and also focus on smaller farms, which, despite their size, account for a significant part of total production. without direct payments, most of them cannot survive because of the world market price. the result would be further devastation of rural areas and the death of farmers. without the small structured farms, the diversity and the production of a wide range of products in europe would suffer, and the result would of course be the uniform products of large corporations or mass imports from third countries such as china and the usa, and this is contrary to food security in every respect! let us therefore focus the cap on small, structured farms rather than on industrial agriculture. these farms - the small structured ones - need fair prices and certainly not social handouts, as is sometimes claimed and demanded here.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this report talks about the budget of 2014 in general. there are no details yet. however, considering that next year’s budget is between two mffs, i am very concerned. all the more so, since we are still in an economic crisis that has not resulted in a responsible consensus on budgetary issues within the european union. if i only think of the leftover payments of 2012, then i have more doubts about the reality of the 2014 budget than i actually want to admit. one point has to be very clear: there has to be enough money for payments as well as for commitments, otherwise we run the risk of an eu deficit, and this we cannot risk. the dilemma is that we have to support economic growth and employment, the young generation, as well as the 50+ generation, and to focus on the 2020 strategy. given that there is a difference in payments and commitments, it is questionable whether we can actually meet these goals. our rapporteur deserves a big thank you for a balanced view. if you will allow me one final remark: i deeply regret that the council is not present today at this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the light of the financial situation, which is tense, i think that the commission should also be cutting back. waste of money such as the €300,000 spent on a cocktail bar in 2009 or the €790,000 spent on the internet layout of a directorate-general needs to be critically examined. in concrete terms, i think that the eu agencies should also be subject to austerity measures. finally, they were created in the 1990s to provide the eu institutions with important information. the expert groups, which are located in a growing number of eu institutions, should promote understanding of eu rules, increase transparency and facilitate the work of the commission. i think that there is little to be said for that. in this respect, it is at least to be expected that the growing number of eu agencies including staff will be reflected in a reduction in the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mr. duff, i have to say something now. i don't believe what you said. you speak of lofty principles which justify austria's losing a seat. you know what i really think? i think you're thinking partisan. it is no coincidence that sweden has four members in the liberal group and austria, as a rule, has none. i think that's what motivates you to do what you do. it's a mistake to act like this. you can tell me that it's different, but i have to tell you frankly, i don't believe you. i think you will not find a reasonable explanation either, because both rapporteurs have actually put forward something much better than what your group has proposed to change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the principle of degressive proportionality, which is based on article 14 (2) teu, is intended to respect the three principles that you all know. the rapporteur says that these are not mathematical criteria. then, fellas, learn your math or repeat it. they think that pragmatic solutions must be introduced. these are artificial solutions which are not based on the facts and are at the expense of a member state which is very much pro-european and would therefore be penalized by losing its seat. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i hope that we will vote correctly tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lack of direct proportionality in the composition of the european parliament and the council may be due to the specific nature of the eu and is intended to avoid marginalizing or marginalising small member states. in sum, direct proportionality in the distribution of mandates is therefore only very superficial, and that is precisely why the reduction to the detriment of my country - that is, austria - does not seem either compulsory or logical. in view of the results of the recent financial negotiations, in which austria, taking into account the increased gross contribution and the reduced eu rebate, has borne an additional burden of around one third, and in view of the enormous sums that are also flowing from austria under the various rescue umbrellas, the citizen in my country is only too easily given the impression that the alpine republic - that is, austria - is having less and less to say, but has to deliver more and more money. the ruling discontent is justified by the saying we know all too well: austria will be dealt with, if necessary, with sanctions. it's been a few years, but it's true. the fact that the number of austrian meps has now been reduced to 18, contrary to the original plans, is therefore a devastating signal which will undoubtedly increase scepticism in my country. instead, i call on everyone to send a positive signal to austria. the country is really doing a lot for european integration and the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the debate shows us all that we need a new, permanent formula for the distribution of seats after accession to the european union. we need a transparent system for calculating the distribution of seats in parliament once and for all, so that we do not have to start over again with every accession to the eu. because what we do here is a vote in a committee decides whether a country has one more or one less place, and that opens every door to the cow trade! what's this about? the recalculation of the number of seats per country is made necessary by the accession of croatia to the eu croatia receives eleven seats and by the capping of the mandates at 751. in total, 12 countries are losing seats. it was the political will not to take more than one seat from any country, not the basis for calculation. if population statistics alone had been used, eight countries would have lost more than one seat and four countries would have gained seats. for example, austria would not have lost a seat on this basis. and we all praise the rapporteurs today. i commend her too. why do we not then vote for the rapporteur's report? the rapporteur's report was amended by one vote in the committee in only one case. we are also in favour of making the rapporteur's report a majority report and of a formula which will be sustainable in the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not my dear gunnar, this is duff. if you've been listening to me, you know i didn't attack anyone. i was in favour of a permanent formula. and the question you asked me you must ask the two rapporteurs who have proposed a different distribution of seats for each calculation basis than the one which will be put to the vote tomorrow. and then we're going to have the same amount of money in the base of the calculation, where you get more or less. it's not about austria or sweden, it's about the calculation basis. and i have said nothing more or less than that i support the original report by the rapporteurs. we didn't attack anyone. what we're playing here between us is actually a sign that we need a permanent arrangement. and i am not going to say that sweden has always had one more mandate than austria because of the different population numbers. in the redistribution it was proposed differently, not because we asked for it, but because the rapporteurs commented and justified it in this way, and we followed that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the original report drawn up by the rapporteurs trzaskowski and gualtieri in the committee on constitutional affairs, a balanced solution was proposed and principles were developed. these principles should apply equally to all member states: no bloating of the european parliament, respect for the principle of degressive proportionality and the pragmatic approach that only one seat should be lost per country. if austria loses a seat to sweden, it means that the european parliament is not adhering to the principles it has set itself in austria - and only in austria - and, moreover, that the swedish position is being shifted towards austria. i can therefore only recommend to everyone - and especially to those who are so principled - that they stick to the original report as proposed by gualtieri and trzaskowski and vote accordingly in plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as an austrian green, i am of course in full agreement with the reason why this adjustment is necessary, namely the accession of croatia. it is a positive thing that this accession is taking place. so it was necessary to find a solution now. the problem is that there is no comprehensive solution that is truly fairer for all. the two rapporteurs have succeeded in presenting a sensible compromise, based on the lack of rules that has existed so far, but which still contains injustices in many respects. i would say to mr hökmark, mr rangel and others that the committee on constitutional affairs has a very small majority, but it is true: one vote counts, even in a majority, one of the many injustices in the distribution of seats in only one area, namely the area between hungary and sweden, shifted to the area between sweden and austria. i don't think that makes sense. i would be very pleased if a large majority in this house tomorrow agreed to the amendment tabled by the austrian members.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. if austria is to lose a seat to sweden as a result of this, there is no factual justification for this. the report also did not originally envisage any reductions for austria. it is not possible that criteria are first set out in a report and then arbitrarily changed to the detriment of austria. the rapporteur is obviously not using strict logic. and the whole discussion is getting a little weird. so, as a side note, if you are already anxious to find objective criteria, you might want to look at the so-called mep ranking, i.e. the activities of eu parliamentarians. austria is first in this category!
in writing. i call for limits and higher safety standards to protect against endocrine substances. we need to make sure that there are no harmful chemicals in plastic bottles, textiles and toys. we therefore need to set limits and take rapid action against endocrine disruptors. austria is a pioneer in this field. we are already the first country in the eu to ban the hormone-disrupting substance bisphenol a from products such as baby pacifiers and baby bottles. it is time for more to be done at european level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in an increasingly globalised society, which owes its prosperity to the trade in goods and services and to the substantial contribution of migrants, the principle of free movement and mobility of workers and their fair participation in the labour market is not only important and valuable but also a basic prerequisite for the functioning of the european internal market. migrants make a significant contribution to the prosperity of europe and should also be able to claim social and labour rights acquired in the course of their professional activity throughout the union. the right of permanent residence for the foreseeable future and equal access to the labour market offer prospects and are key to successful integration. it is therefore necessary that immigration and residence criteria be governed by clear and fair rules. i would also like to stress that the issue of labour market migration must not be used for populist purposes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address mrs hirsch and make a few comments on her important report. i see a very important effort to massively strengthen the targeted integration of migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the obligation of immigrants is also clearly defined: language acquisition, participation in cultural life and learning about cultural life. on the one hand, there is a clear indication of the funding and reinforcement of measures by the member states, and on the other hand, we can see that it is essential that migrants take action themselves when they integrate. on the other hand, we find some confusion which does not allow a coordinated approach in the current form in individual member states, namely the confusion between the status of legal immigration as a migrant, that of a refugee and that of sometimes - i stress: sometimes - also illegal asylum seekers, where they very much mention in a supplementary sentence the need for border controls, facial recognition, etc., where they make it clear that there is this problem. the people's party wants a clear separation here in the interests of the population, but also of the people who migrate. we want to support and promote legal immigration. it's a win-win situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask for your understanding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union needs immigration, and that is targeted immigration, legal immigration, skilled immigration. and it must do everything possible to ensure that these migrants receive appropriate integration assistance. but in your report, mrs hirsch, there are many articles which are more in favour of illegal immigration, because in some of them you call for the legalisation of illegal immigrants, people without identity papers, for access to the labour market and for the right to vote for illegal immigrants. they also call for the possibility of integrating asylum seekers who have been rejected. these are all demands that are not consistent with what you actually claim to do. i therefore believe that we should be extremely cautious in supporting your report, because it is precisely these points that are encouraging illegal migration and are more likely to hinder integration.
question for the commissioner: i can share much of that, but the general 'more' is too little for me in europe. we need a different europe, a fairer europe. but i keep hearing from you: more social harmonization. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. my question to you is very specific: when you speak of social harmonization, do you have in mind countries like austria, with a functioning, good, high-quality social security system, or rather those countries which want to level social harmonization down?
question for the commissioner: i would like to thank mr paksas. unlike virtually all the other speakers, your words can be interpreted as meaning that there is still too little aid for agriculture. do you realize that 80% of all funds are now spent on 20% of farms? this means that agricultural factories receive a far disproportionate share of the funds. what would be your concrete solution if you were to ask for more aid for agriculture within the already reduced eu budget?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the longer i have been here as a genuinely independent member of parliament, the more i have become concerned about the european project. the eu's policy-makers are faced with a strategic dilemma. the objectives they constantly proclaim are widely accepted by the population, but the way in which they try to achieve these objectives is not. we are thus in a situation where, on the one hand, it is understood that intelligent growth could very well come from the european union, to quote daniel cohn-bendit, but there is no willingness to spend additional resources on it. the only solution i see at the moment is intelligent redistribution. and you are standing on your own feet because of the lobbying pressure of the big agro-industrial groups, the construction lobbies of the cohesion fund and the completely absurd positioning of the eu officials' delegations. the solution would be relatively simple. of course we know that the administrative part is not 6%, but 12%, commissioner lewandowski, and that there is an incredible amount of administrative money hidden in programmes - billions of dollars - which naturally add up over seven years. and of course we know that the current form of agricultural subsidies is nonsense, and we also know that the cohesion fund funds belong exactly where they have been taken away, namely in the area of research, in the area of horizon 2020. you're failing as a political leader! and you will get - as bitterly as i feel as a pro-european - the very nasty political response from the far right and other extremists in the next elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are facing very big challenges! the question of globalisation, competitiveness, the fight against youth unemployment, growth and employment, social cohesion and structural reforms - we need more dynamism, more determination, more seriousness, a european spirit and sincerity. we need the political instruments and the money to be able to meet our objectives, programmes, decisions and challenges. ladies and gentlemen, does anyone here believe that we can meet the global challenge and all these detailed questions that i have raised with less investment, less capacity for action by the european union, less money than we had in relation to prosperity 20 years ago? i'm not going to. we therefore reject this proposal and open the door to negotiations so that we can assume our pan-european responsibility and fulfil our obligations to the citizens. i am also against having permanent summit meetings during plenary sessions. you know the dates of the parliament. the summits should take place between the plenary debates. we can then prepare and re-prepare it, and there will be no travelling circus of council, media and parliamentarians. please consider this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking about the multiannual financial framework, but the focus of this framework should not be on the figures, but on the people, on the europeans. i think it is an unworthy dragging of millions here and billions there if we do not ask what these funds are used for. there is a very clear commitment to the structural funds, to cohesion. we want a europe of peace, a europe of employment, a europe of educational opportunities, a europe of security, a europe of social security. and we shall only achieve this europe if we make a joint effort and look at the figures from this point of view. i mean, we don't necessarily need more money, we just need to put the money to good use. there has to be this flexibility. there must be a possibility of transferring funds from one year to the next. i really ask that our rejection of the budget be seen in this light.
in writing. the need to save in times of crisis is undeniable. but if the council sets the mff commitments for 2014-2020 at eur 960 billion and the payments at eur 908 billion, this amounts to a deficit and is therefore contrary to the eu treaty. such a move by the council is incomprehensible in view of the disastrous situation in some member states. if you have deficits in the national budgets, we do not need them in the eu budget. so let us go to the negotiating table and renegotiate with seriousness and seriousness. what our citizens want is a budget that is more transparent, more flexible and more up-to-date, but most importantly, a budget that is realistic.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we now have a flood of messages from colleagues who probably all want to comment on this tragic incident. the president of this house, like others, was there all the time, and so were the doctors we have in the house, the medical staff we have in the house, who were there immediately. i would like to thank all those who have helped immediately - the staff, the members and those who are doing their jobs here - very much. it is not the time to continue the debate in the plenary, at a time when we do not yet know how the incident will turn out. (applause from the centre) the president of this house has said - and we have been saying this all along - that we must consider the causes and consequences in all calm. there has been no blame, but we must think about it. i ask that we not have this debate now, but let some time pass. the president himself has undertaken to analyse and draw the conclusions, to keep you informed and to involve you all. (applause from the centre) i really do ask you not to continue the debate on this point. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter. and most of all, good luck to our friend papastamkos! does anyone else want to speak?
i have to say, mr. engel. i believe that it is in the interests of the man who got up from his chair a few hours ago and then had to go to the hospital that we continue to work in the interests of the citizens. we're not voting today. the sitting was adjourned until four o'clock. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'contract' in the wording of the directive. but i ask that we enter the agenda, not dissociated from what has happened, not dissociated from thoughts that move us all, but that we proceed according to the agenda and then clarify the timetable in which we will hold the votes tomorrow. i shall now close the debate and enter the agenda.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt (2013/2542 ((rsp)). i can tell you that it is not easy for me either - i say it like this - and i ask you to understand the procedure we have chosen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. about a year ago, 74 people died after a football game in port said. people are dying again in response to the recent sentences against those responsible. the rising unrest across the country has been going on for weeks now, and is directed both at the police brutality and the policies of the muslim brotherhood. two years after the revolution, the country is sinking into resignation. social ills, corruption, an outdated education and health system and, above all, persecution of christians, will hardly change even after the next elections in the spring, when, again, the islamists will win. in other words, it must be clear to us that those who are not prepared to guarantee women's rights, those who are not prepared to protect minorities, those who are not prepared to protect the christian communities in their own country, are also losing their right to economic support from the eu!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two years after the arab spring, egypt, whose currency reserves have shrunk by a third since the revolution, is financially on the edge. we know that. without reforms, the imf will certainly not pay out loans. if cairo, on the other hand, were to withdraw government subsidies for food and fuel, a revolt of the poor would be likely. the violent riots also show how little control both morsi and the opposition have over the people on the streets. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the situation in the middle east, which is a very important subject for the future of the middle east. the last time the army had to protect police buildings in some places was two years ago. the muslim brotherhood has intensified the internal political differences. instead of the freedom and democracy that we so long for, the arab spring has brought nothing but an islamization of egypt. since egypt will remain unstable for a long time, i think the eu should finally develop a strategy for dealing with islamised states!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very impressed with your very principled and correct conduct of business. they also keep track of time. which is why i'm a little surprised that, although i signed up for your predecessor's "catch the eye", your charming ladies ask me if i'm the one who signed up, and i say yes, and then it obviously got lost somewhere. but i do not understand why i am not given the floor when no other colleague is present. i therefore ask for your consideration of the next item on the agenda, in accordance with the 'catch the eye' procedure.
mr president, i would like to speak on the next issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i regret that i did not hear from mrs ashton that she was giving due credit to the lebanese authorities, who are faced with a difficult task. during a visit by the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, i was able to see firsthand the dramatic humanitarian situation in lebanon, particularly in the camps where only some 300 000 refugees are registered. there is talk of an obscure figure of 800,000 to 900,000 living with relatives. unbelievable, that's almost a fifth of the lebanese population! this is roughly equivalent to a third of vienna's population moving in two years. lebanon is overwhelmed, we must help. but the arab league is also called upon to help. the gulf states, and saudi arabia in particular, should not only support salafist and fundamentalist groups, but also help refugees. but they do not seem to want to do so, for it would obviously disturb them too much in their archaic, patriarchal comfort. the eu must insist that these countries take responsibility for their actions.
that concludes this item.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2013/2569 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs harms, if you are also speaking against the czech republic, because the czech republic is now pursuing a politically motivated procedure of political justice against former president václav klaus, then you have a certain credibility. i haven't heard a word of criticism. it's the same thing, but it's not criticized. i would like to thank commissioner füle for his personal efforts to improve relations between the european union and ukraine. this is a very great personal merit of yours! this association agreement is in our mutual interest, but it is also in our interest. we must have an interest in the fact that the question of "pro-european orientation" "yes or no" in ukraine is decided in favor of the european orientation. that is our interest, and that is the purpose of this association agreement. we must have an interest in seeing the gas transit system modernised in the interests of europe. this is a european interest. we must have an interest in ukraine's achievements being recognised in the framework of the osce chairmanship in 2013 in resolving the transnistrian conflict. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the effort is continuing. it is therefore in europe's interest to sign this association agreement in order to continue its efforts to improve the situation in ukraine.
that concludes this item. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bastiaan belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu-china relations (2012/2137 ((ini)). i would like to ask you to respect the speaking time, since we have 33 speaking time scheduled for this item alone.
i would point out that lady ashton was here at the start of the debate this afternoon and had to travel to kosovo this afternoon directly from the debate here in the plenary. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid. (interruptions by mr dartmouth without a microphone)
thank you, but that's not possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the cooperation and verification procedure: methodology, current application and future of the procedure (2013/2568 ((rsp)).
the catch-the-eye procedure is over. a personal question was answered: someone felt that they were being addressed, and mrs bašescu answered. i have not missed a blue card, but i am obliged by the rules of procedure to keep the debate flowing. i have not been partial either, but i have tried to conduct the catch-the-eye procedure and the debate before it in such a way that you were not led into a personal conflict but were led according to the subject. if someone felt personally affected, he could reply and mrs bašescu responded accordingly. i mean, to have this debate concluded in a fair way.
that concludes this item. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
question for the commissioner: the commission is not mrs bastos, i would like to congratulate you on your speech. i would like to know how you see the prospects for the future, particularly in the case of women's employment, of giving those who are selfemployed or run small and mediumsized businesses the same social rights as those who are employed and are only employees. the basic condition is social equality. what do you think?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are talking here again about a subject which has already failed several times in the council, although it is an important issue and one which is widely supported by the political groups and the countries. why is there resistance here? in any case, in this form of enterprise we encounter a very great diversity - as one would say in biology - in the structures and the specific design of these societies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why would you do that? this is one of the few sectors where we will see very strong growth in the coming years and decades, simply because of the demands. i believe that it is therefore essential to create the means of breaking up oligopolistic structures in some member states by creating new opportunities for crossborder companies. of course, there are always problems with different company cultures, particularly in crossborder societies. but i can tell you quite frankly that my aim is to see a european business culture develop at some point. and here too, it is appropriate to push and uphold certain ideas and ideals, such as the principle of 'one person, one vote'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll have to discuss that. it can really open up new and positive opportunities for us in a positive competition law. that's why i'm asking for your support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. european company law is still in its infancy. rarely are subjects discussed at such length as the statutes of new european company law forms, a subject which at first glance seems dull and dry, but of course it is not at all. i think we must look at the european mutual society differently from the way we normally look at the reforms of company law. it's about social justice, it's about fairness, it's about creating social value and creating a form of business that's not driven by pure profit. i would therefore like to emphasize in particular the european parliament's recommendations on governance structures, which should be as democratic as possible and prohibit the unity of personnel of members of the management and supervisory bodies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unlike corporations, it is a stakeholder approach, not a pure shareholder approach!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if europol's investigations have clearly shown that betting manipulation, combined with money laundering, has become part of organised crime, then we need concrete measures and a coordinated approach to tackling gambling manipulation. i expect sports organisations to adopt a zero tolerance policy, to establish a code of conduct for all those involved, but above all to make betting fraud a criminal offence at european level in the field of organised crime. what we need are concrete measures to successfully defend the integrity of sport against the growing criminalization.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the global production and processing of cotton has been the subject of several debates in the european parliament. what is clear is that we need to ensure that child labour, as well as forced child labour, is reduced as much as possible, globally. the european union has a role to play here, but so do we europeans as consumers. european values must also be represented outside the eu's single market. the reduction of child labour is at the top of the list here. the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid to the cotton sector. we need to continue to build on this and we should support partner countries in making the right choices to become more sustainable. to achieve this sustainability, it is necessary to provide tools that enable countries themselves, but also ngos, to identify problem areas and address improvements. it must be possible to have access to comprehensive information on cotton production. the lack of representative information is currently a major problem in the fight against child labour. but here we need to work together more closely. however, in order to make effective use of this monitoring, producing and processing countries must go a step further. the ilo and un conventions on working age, labour rights, safety at work and, in particular, child labour, define international standards which are intended to be ratified by all the countries concerned and which are often not adhered to by many. all too often these conventions are not ratified, and even if they are, implementation remains questionable. the international organizations have an important role to play in this area in terms of information and data collection. it is they who denounce in the reports the violation of fundamental rights, which in turn lead to sanctions by other states or international organizations. the example of uzbekistan has made this very clear and well illustrated. i would like to conclude by addressing the question of origin labelling. what information is widely available, and what does it actually say? and how can we identify faulty information without generating too much extra effort?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the so-called arab spring has even worsened the situation of women in these fundamentalist muslim countries. that means the situation has gotten worse. i therefore wanted to approve this report at the outset. but what i find totally unacceptable is paragraph 20, which clearly refers to abortion. it cites three sources of united nations reports and resolutions, all of which end in abortion. it is precisely this paragraph 20 which has made it impossible for me to vote in favour of this report, which i would otherwise have supported, because women's rights have not improved, but have even worsened, particularly in the so-called arab spring. that is why it is necessary that we take the women's side. but paragraph 20 is totally unacceptable because it calls for abortion.
in writing. − although the arab spring has brought some changes, the demonstrations and the changing power relations have not really helped women in their position in society. on the contrary, their situation has often worsened in those regions where muslim parties have been able to use democracy to their advantage. in the case of regime change, elections and constitutional reform, women and religious minorities are all too easily affected. it is time for the eu, which is helping the new democracies with a lot of money, to address these problems. the report does not do this, which is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i truly believe that women should enjoy same rights and freedoms all over the world. ‘eu instruments’ and experience should be used as an example in order to support women’s rights and gender equality in the countries and societies that still struggle over the position of women. in my opinion, the role of the eu is also to support the building of democratic regimes and economic and social development.
in writing. − we are currently experiencing a situation which is economically and socially devastating for the european union. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of poverty reduction. unemployment is rising sharply in general and youth unemployment is reaching devastating proportions in large parts of our continent. if the social divisions in europe continue to widen, and they will, we are at the beginning of very uncertain and worrying times in europe. we must now devote all our energies to our own problems and to helping our fellow citizens in need. at this time, or in the period 2014-2020, to send more money to africa etc. and thereby also support corrupt regional elites, does not seem to make much sense. but there are good projects that need to be supported. the report could have been even more explicit in its support for the principle of 'help for self-help', which is why i abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the political groups in this parliament on the conclusions of the european council on the multiannual financial framework of 7 and 8 february, because it puts austria at a disadvantage once again. the commission has already taken a decision on the issue of the financial perspective for the period 2000 to 2006. the amount of eu budgetary outflows to austria is decreasing. the austrian rebate is being cut massively and austria's net payments to the european union are continuing to rise. this is unacceptable to me and, incidentally, to the majority of austrians. the present motions for resolutions would mean that austria would be put in an even worse position and would have to pay even more to the european union. for me, the motto has long been: enough paid!
in writing. − the proposal for the multiannual financial framework negotiated by the heads of state or government may be a compromise for the eurocrats, but for me as an mep it is not only legally problematic, it also fails to take account of the current changed situation in europe. instead of pursuing its self-declared goals of becoming the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world, which would require higher spending on research and development and on employment, the eu is still willing to spend vast sums on useless agencies or continue to support the agricultural industry generously. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the budget. again and again, you see crazy billions of dollars of eu-funded projects that have little impact on the ground. the eu budget needs to be fundamentally re-weighted, which is why a treaty reform is necessary, which provides for a redistribution of competences between the eu and the member states. i therefore voted against this policy.
in writing. - i voted against the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the political groups on the conclusions of the european council on the multiannual financial framework of 7 and 8 february, because it puts austria at a disadvantage once again. the commission has already taken a decision on the future of the european union, and it is not the council that is responsible for this. the amount of eu budgetary outflows to austria is decreasing, the austrian rebate is being massively reduced and net payments to the eu continue to rise. this is unacceptable. the present motions for resolutions would mean that austria would be put in an even worse position and would have to pay even more to the eu. for me, the motto is "enough is enough".
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the five largest political groups on the multiannual financial framework because the council's position on the mff as it stands is very weak. a budget for a seven-year time frame without the possibility of deciding to review it hinders flexible responses to changing conditions. there must be the possibility of reallocating funds at short notice. the european union needs a budget that mitigates the effects of the current financial and economic crisis and provides the impetus to overcome it by investing in youth, education, employment and innovation. the council's current proposal lacks a clear focus in this direction. the proposal would also push the eu into a 'structural deficit': member states would provide less money than is defined for expenditure, thus pushing the union into a debt situation that the treaties do not allow. the resolution gives the european parliament a strong mandate for negotiations with the council.
in writing. − since agreement with this proposal would be agreement to an eu-deficit (which, according to the treaty, is not possible), i had to vote against it.
in writing. − the rapporteur's comments are welcome, as high-quality information on the economy can be of importance not only for the eu as a whole but also for citizens. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to the commission's proposal extend the considerations on improving statistics, inter alia, in terms of transparency, environmental aspects and user needs.
in writing. the international labour organisation's maritime labour convention contains fundamental rights for seafarers, including the right to health and safety at sea. these include, in particular, the employment and social rights of seafarers. the convention brings together over 60 existing legal instruments, including recommendations and conventions, adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) since 1920. the aim is to improve the working and living conditions of seafarers by establishing minimum standards worldwide, to improve safety on board ships and to prevent social dumping and the resulting distortions of competition. i voted for the report because i believe that a directive is the only way to implement the 60 pieces of legislation already in force, with new adaptations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers are respected.
in writing. − this report addresses the provisions of the 2006 maritime labour convention on flag state surveillance at eu level, which should be more fully and concretely embedded in eu legislation. one advantage of incorporating the maritime labour convention into eu law is the stricter implementation rules that will be created within the eu for eu infringement procedures. this will ensure better compliance. the eu provisions on flag state surveillance should take much greater account of the specific and explicit requirements of the maritime labour convention. this is to prevent divergent interpretations by member states which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. - in the context of the tight financial situation, the commission must also make savings. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. finally, they were created in the 1990s to provide the eu institutions with important information. in this respect, it is at least to be expected that the growing number of eu agencies, including staff, will be reflected in reductions in the eu commission. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the report presents a very balanced view of the eu budget situation for the next year, which i fully agree with. once more, i want to underline the necessity of ‘sufficient financial resources’ at eu level, in order to face all the economic challenges planned within the europe 2020 strategy. we have to bear in mind that 2014 is a transition year between two mffs and a successful start of the new programmes’ generation is very important in helping europe and its citizens to get through the still ongoing financial and economic crisis. investments with ‘multiple effect’ in areas like: employment, industry, education and regional development/structural funds have to be sustained from the eu budget. i voted in favour of this report, underlining that delaying payments from one year to another and an eu deficit budget will never solve europe’s economic and financial problems and will never have my approval.
in writing. − the vote on the new composition was necessary because croatia is due to join the eu in july this year and the eu treaty limits the number of seats in the european parliament to 751. the rapporteur's original proposal was a report based on mathematical formulas, which allocated seats to each member state according to the principles of degressive proportionality. it is characteristic that in germany, with its future 96 members, about 850 000 citizens are represented by one member, whereas in malta or luxembourg there are not even 100 000 citizens per member. in austria, one member of parliament represents some 470 000 citizens. since sweden and especially hungary, with a population of about 10 million, are much larger than austria, their mps would have to represent more citizens, following the principle of degressive proportionality. but this has been prevented by an unfair amendment to austria. i am against this cow trade and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - greece has 1.4 million more inhabitants than hungary. both countries will now have the same number of seats, namely 21. hungary has 1.5 million more inhabitants than austria and in future will have three more seats in the european parliament. this is simply unfair and cannot be objectively justified. sweden has one million more inhabitants than austria and now two seats more, namely 20. bulgaria has one million fewer inhabitants than austria and only one less seat in the european parliament. the swedish-austrian-bulgarian relationship is also not objectively justified. the report in its original form, as presented by the two rapporteurs to the committee on constitutional affairs, was balanced and based on the same principles for all eu member states. the only country that has not applied these principles is austria, and i regret that.
in writing. - i regret that the report by rafał trzaskowski and roberto gualtieri was not adopted in its original form. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. austria is one of the losers in the decision to deviate from the objective criteria. member states such as greece, hungary, bulgaria or sweden are treated much better than austria.
in writing. − the detailed definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks are regulated in regulation (eu) no 110/2008. the purpose of the basic regulation on spirit drinks is to ensure fair and open competition between suppliers of spirit drinks and to protect consumers from fraud and misleading practices by means of specific labelling provisions. the regulation therefore requires the marketing name to be used for each spirit drink placed on the market. spirits, with the exception of egg liqueur, must have a minimum alcoholic strength of 15% volume. i am against the resolution because i think the cost of labelling a spirit, absinthe, which, as the resolution says, is produced in different regions anyway, is comparatively too high. i also believe that the consumer is more likely to be confused by the detailed labelling than to be better informed.
in writing. - the vote on the cap reform is a balancing act between production and environmental protection. the art of re-engineering the cap is to do justice to the diverse structures of european agriculture. the european parliament has today expressed its support for the idea of making agriculture even more ecological in the future. i am in favour of 30% of the premium being linked to greening requirements. these include a ban on the conversion of permanent grassland, diversification of crop production to three crops and the reservation of 7% of the area as 'ecological priority area'. i am also in favour of simplifying and simplifying the greening requirements: the 'ecological priority areas' are to be introduced gradually and areas are to be used in a region in the common interest of the environment. i am very much in favour of simplification for smaller firms. it is important that the ecological priority areas continue to be suitable for cultivation. the eu's farm benefit payments are a vital source of income. it is extremely important to secure these benefits in the framework of direct payments to farmers. however, in the face of the eu's reduced agricultural budget, agriculture needs to be made even more productive and competitive. it is also important that member states are given as much flexibility as possible in implementing the cap reform rules, for example in the transition to the regional model.
in writing. - i support the report on the common european market organisation because i believe that european agriculture continues to have an urgent need for regulated market measures. intervention, emergency reserves and stocks are important and well-established mechanisms which can partially compensate for fluctuating market conditions. i also expressly welcome the position that sugar quotas should be maintained until 2020 and that this should provide stability for european sugar beet production. the vine planting rights are also an important and correct instrument for winegrowers, which safeguards thousands of lives, and therefore these rights must be maintained until at least 2030. i also voted in favour of the proposal that quotas in the milk sector should be fully exhausted only when a genuine 'soft landing' is guaranteed. however, at present the commission is still not providing answers for many dairy farms, especially in areas where there is no alternative to milk production.
in writing. − one of the epp's key demands in designing rural development programmes is to take the agri-environment and organic programmes into account for greening, so that there is no barrier to entry for these programmes. these second pillar programmes go much further in the environmental field than the three greening proposals. the agriculture committee proposed that the 'green by definition' credit be provided through equivalence lists, which allow the commission to establish that an equivalent environmental performance is achieved by another measure. the second important area is the redefinition of disadvantaged areas. the commission is proposing to replace the existing index system with the eight biophysical criteria. initial model calculations show a total change in the landscape in many places. however, parliament has not been sufficiently informed about the impact in all member states. i therefore support the position that this redistribution is rejected in the context of the cap reform and that the commission must develop a new proposal for criteria by 2014. the report on rural development programmes also focuses on innovation in rural areas. i am in favour of providing farmers with additional income opportunities, of encouraging cooperation and quality programmes and of continuing the leader programme! i also support the call for member states to contribute to rural development through proper co-financing.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's position in the report on the financing, monitoring and management of the cap, which proposes, in particular, a reduction in bureaucracy in the area of control. i also support the negative position of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the commission's proposal to publish the beneficiaries of payments. i'm speaking out for data protection. the commission has not responded to the privacy concerns of many and intends to publish the first, last, address and amount of the individuals. the rejection of the commission's proposal is a response to the judgment of the european court of justice of 9 november 2010 declaring the publication of the data on natural persons on the internet illegal. the plaintiffs were affected farmers who were demanding the protection of their data and protesting against data retention - a right upheld in all other policy areas.
in writing. the majority of agricultural subsidies still go to agricultural groups and the food industry. the present changes in the current agricultural reform may be based on good basic ideas, such as bringing more organic or ecology into agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of small farmers and small-scale farming. the linking of direct payments to new eco-regulations will mean that austrian farmers will receive less eu funding despite the high eco-standards set by brussels. this is a counterproductive development if organic farmers are punished by the eu's bypass. the agricultural reform was intended to provide an incentive for greater greening, not to remove the need to comply with strict ecological rules. i voted against this proposal in protest.
in writing. − in principle, the objective of reducing co2 emissions is clearly stated in this report, and a number of measures have been mentioned. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. the energy supply of the future must go a path without nuclear power. the commission's proposal to promote greater public acceptance is the wrong way to go. and the attitude of the committee responsible for public health, which recommends initiatives "to improve public acceptance of the choice of site for the plants [nuclear power plants]", is also intolerable. these demands are untenable, and i therefore reject the report.
in writing. − endocrine disruptors are chemical substances that, by virtue of their structure and mode of action, act on organisms in a way similar to hormones or affect hormone balance. the effects of endocrine disruptors have been observed in the reproduction, growth and development of certain animal species, as well as in the increase in the incidence of certain human reproductive disorders and certain cancers. this is attributed to a disorder of the endocrine system. the effects on humans are expected to include a decline in male fertility, male genital deformities, female reproductive diseases, premature puberty, and a decline in the number of boys born. similar symptoms are evident in the animal kingdom. i voted for this resolution because it is essential that further, in-depth research be carried out in the field of endocrine disruptors in order to be able to either confirm or refute the harm alleged so far.
in writing. - i am grateful for the report on the protection of public health from endocrine disruptors. finally, the dangerous consequences of excessive hormone levels are being taken seriously politically. the report unfortunately omits a major cause of the health risks that are now emerging. it has been shown that the pharmaceutical industry in particular is largely responsible for the increase in the incidence of hormone-related disorders. the problem is the pill hormone ee2, which is one of the most potent endocrine disruptors in existence. it is usually used in hormonal contraceptives. the ee2 in the ovulation inhibitors swallowed more than six million times a day completely dominates the unwanted main input into the wastewater and consequently also, unfortunately, into the groundwater and even into the drinking water. ee2 is a thousand times more potent than bisphenol a or than nonylphenol and a million times more potent than the endocrine disruptor 3-benzylidene camphor. the reach regulation is overdue for an amendment. unfortunately, it does not require a review of certain substances of concern until the annual production volume exceeds 10 tonnes. however, the production volume of ee2 is below this level, so that the worst of the worst substances falls through the reach grid. i therefore find this report critical.
in writing. − the increase in hormonal disorders and diseases in humans is to be taken very seriously. an important part of eu chemicals policy is the precautionary principle, which should not be forgotten. in particular, there is an increase in potentially reproductive diseases in the form of reduced sperm quality, testicular cancer, premature puberty and deformed genitalia. there has also been an increase in birth defects, cancers and diabetes, as well as cases of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and adhd. such rapid change is due to external factors. external factors include lifestyle factors, diet, pathogens, medications, exposure to chemicals, drugs, economic factors and social causes such as stress. all these factors can influence each other. the eu has an important role to play in protecting human health, and this requires the application of the precautionary principle. in everyday life, we are constantly surrounded by substances that disrupt hormones, such as packaging. young children, adolescents, and women of childbearing age are particularly at risk.
in writing. - if statistics are to be believed, the european population of working age will shrink by 14 million over the next ten years. this is partly due to the fact that the number of children is decreasing, and that there are many families who simply cannot afford or do not want to have children. the eu also faces the problem that there are few highly qualified workers coming to the eu, and many more immigrants looking for work here are poorly or not at all qualified workers. i voted against the report because i believe that further immigration cannot be the solution to the problem of the shrinking society of central europe. i think that we should rather take measures to give the local population the opportunity and the incentive to have more children again. this includes the inclusion of the waiting period in the pension, well-developed childcare facilities and the like. it should also be borne in mind that highly skilled workers rarely immigrate to offer their know-how within the eu.
in writing. − globalisation in recent decades has also led to a steady and rapid increase in the proportion of the population moving to other countries for various reasons. on the one hand, this is a new advantage of the globalised world, but on the other hand it also brings with it numerous challenges. the rapporteur has made sufficient reference to both of these and the proposals seem to be sound and productive throughout.
in writing. − for decades, it has been known that exposure to asbestos causes significant damage to the body and can often lead to cancer. people with very low levels of exposure to asbestos fibres also have a significantly increased risk of cancer. despite the ban on asbestos, asbestos fibers are still found in many homes and offices, water pipes, trains, ships, and more. many occupations in the construction or decontamination industries are exposed to these harmful substances on a daily basis. in addition, asbestos fibres have a very long half-life, and this allows the toxic substances to spread. there is still no solution to the problem of asbestos disposal. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is high time that we became aware of this problem and that we responded to asbestos contamination in a european manner. measures in the field of construction and disposal are urgently needed to prevent further spread of asbestos.
in writing. the health risks of asbestos have been well known for decades and i can only support mr hughes' report which aims to remove asbestos from the market as quickly and effectively as possible. the report's demands are broad and stringent, but necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to compete effectively in the world market. the union should set an example in the field of asbestos removal for the benefit of human health.
in writing. − the establishment of a european statute for mutual societies is an important and necessary development for greater legal certainty and a strengthening of the internal market and is therefore to be welcomed, particularly with regard to the preservation of the workforce and the growing economic segment.
in writing. - the report is well reasoned and well researched. despite the already very good cooperation between the eu and china, the eu's efforts to improve human rights policy in china, particularly in the areas of the 'one-child policy', forced abortions, improved penal and sentencing conditions and recognition of tibetans and other religious minorities in the chinese system, are particularly noteworthy. it also draws attention to the fact that china, with its more than 500 million internet users, is a portal that should be dominated by cooperation and cohesion, not surveillance and censorship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with many speakers that we have problems with the ets. that's right, i did. but i don't think that backloading is going to solve those problems. what are the problems? do we have a purpose for the proceeds? what happens to the money that consumers ultimately pay through the price of electricity and the increased production? it is a question of the european parliament's right to decide on the budget. backloading won't solve this. secondly, do we have investment security through a corridor price? we don't have that either. it was specifically called a cap-and-trade system. cap: 21% minus in the ets sector and trade: free market. the ets is actually doing that, and the concern that it is too high or too low has been deliberately accepted. thirdly, the price signal is too weak for green investment. that's right, too. it is only when you talk to the people in charge, particularly in the electricity industry, that they say that to switch from coal to gas you need prices of 50 euros. we should really talk openly about this . backloading is not really going to solve this problem either. fourthly, as an austrian, it is important for me to see nuclear power reduced. with backloading we can further increase this electricity production because nuclear power is co2-free. i am in principle prepared to discuss a reform of this ets. but not by this intervention, the backloading, where you suddenly pursue other goals and purposes than originally intended. if we want reform, we will follow the normal legislative procedure, lay the cards on the table, see what happens internationally, and then we can discuss reform. i am opposed to this intervention. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. as i said, you can see that there were other quantities at that time, which were much smaller. with 900 million here, there's a bigger amount on the table. we really have to look at what we want to do with the system in principle. we have now entered the third trading period, in which the new rules are being applied. they have been in force for a few months, and now we want to introduce backloading as a major reform. there's an inconsistency here, and you have to see it. but again, there is a willingness to discuss reform, but not like this.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say, with regard to the 'blue card' procedure, that the whole thing only makes sense if you ask the speaker a specific question right at the beginning and he or she can answer it in a very specific way, and you avoid introducing yourself with a small co-report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as long as the eu, which is responsible for 15% of global carbon dioxide emissions, is the only one willing to lead by example, while the big climate sinners india, china, south korea, japan, australia and the us have little concern for the environment, eu trade in allowances is at best a nice gesture. the commission has not yet succeeded in achieving the expected positive effects, even in the eu. the recession was expected to be a setback, but no one expected the price drop that would follow such a long recession. and if the operators save their allowances during this period, it will probably not change anything. the question whether a change in the timing of the auctioning of allowances will change this remains open, and it does not solve the basic problem. as long as the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of aid for renewable energy, the system itself will remain a flawed design in my view!
we take note of the clarification. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a temporary derogation from directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (com (2012) 0697 c7-0385/2012 2012/0328 (cod)) (a7-0060/2013).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr peter liese, who has managed to rally the house behind him, who is an excellent expert on this subject and has already done a great deal of work in this field. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. it is the right signal at the right time that we say, ok, something has happened in icao, there are signs that an international agreement is coming here. so we're suspending our regulation for a year. so it's supposed to be negotiated for a year, and then we'll see what comes on the table. we all hope that what is on the table will really be in line with our intentions, namely to include air transport, which is growing so rapidly, in international climate policy. it is also important to mention, as mathieu grosch has already pointed out, that legal certainty must be given as to who is involved and who is not. it is clear that not only the member states of the community, when they are visited or flights are launched from them, are included in this system, but also friendly third countries. it is also relatively clear that switzerland should be treated as such, because otherwise there would be massive distortions of competition. of course, some airlines are lobbying intensively, but we should not give in to this lobbying and turn a blind eye to the objective solution. i personally find it regrettable - both in the previous debate and now - that the member states are not prepared to commit these funds they receive from emissions trading. the commission is now making a statement that it wants to look at the member states' fingers, but the member states should finally be fair enough to tie up the money from emissions trading. the acceptance of these measures by the companies would then be much higher.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to date, emissions trading has failed to significantly reduce co2 emissions or to stimulate the development of environmentally friendly technologies. as long as the use of high-emission and environmentally destructive technologies can continue unhindered, i believe that the trading of allowances is pointless. the present structure is therefore a disservice to those european companies which have been at the forefront of environmental protection for decades. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the success of the certificate trade, however, even if all possibilities of fraud and trickery are eliminated, remains questionable. the system must finally be redesigned to provide real incentives for low-carbon innovation.
in writing. the fact that one in four german companies has been affected by a cyberattack in the last two years shows that computer crime is becoming a major problem. the financial services sector and industry are naturally particularly affected. governments, nonprofits, and smes mistakenly think that a firewall alone is enough. and then once thousands of credit card details are stolen, highly sensitive personal data disappears into social security accounts, or a large company like ikea is used for a wave of spam, the damage is in the millions. changes in it behaviour such as mobile devices including cloud computing, open wlans and the massive use of social networks are creating new requirements for it security. and so corporate networks are often not threatened so much from the internet as from malware smuggled in via smartphones and the like. since the best security architecture can only be as strong as its weakest link, advanced awareness-raising by enisa is essential. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. in this context, an eu-wide iso certification would be helpful.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the dossier we are now discussing, and above all the result achieved, is a great success for the european parliament, a great success for the financial centre of the european union and for the economic centre of europe. it is a success for the single market. we're not just going to take down a few banks, we're going to take down all the banks. we are not going to regulate it by making exceptions for everyone, but by reaching an agreement with everyone - within parliament and between the market players. with this single market legislation we are creating uniform rules for all 8 200 banks in all the member states of the european union. we are stabilising europe's banks, we are boosting the financing of the real economy, we are strengthening lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, we are increasing fair play in the banking sector and we are relieving the burden on taxpayers in the event of a crisis. the rules we are adopting today will form the basis and cornerstone of all the regulations that lie ahead. and they form the basis for the single rulebook in the european union. we started the journey with the own-initiative report in september 2010 because it and the commission's response to it had already set the stage for the europeanisation of the implementation of the basel targets. and we have achieved this agreement mainly because this parliament has always been interested in unity in the matter and not in profiling by differences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what was it about? we wanted to implement the basel targets on the one hand and to take account of the real economy, growth and employment and the central banking sector, and to extend the corporate governance functions, on the other. yes, we now have more and better equity; this one's doubled. yeah, we got two new liquidity ratios. yes, we are promoting financing for the real economy by easing the burden on sme lending, reducing the risk weight and raising the retail threshold. and we have made sure that we make the banking sector clearer, more responsible and fairer by recognizing the decentralized sector, by a system for all, by a bonus system with a fixed ratio between fixed salary and bonuses, by more transparency. all member states are required to disclose pre-tax profits and losses, the amount of taxes, total turnover, number of employees and any government subsidies received. we're limiting the mandates to executive positions. we are increasing the possibilities for flexibility within a common european framework. and we are laying the foundations for european banking supervision and the banking union. i would like to thank the commission, the presidency of the council, the staff and all members, men and women, for standing together for more than a year and showing that we are providing a clear response to the crisis and stabilising the european banking sector and making the real economy fit for growth and employment. i ask your consent. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. respect, othmar, really respect! once again, you've proved yourself to be a hardworking squirrel and brought home a decent number of nuts. but as a positive pro-european, but also a critical one, i must say that there are a few things missing. of course, we would have liked to see clear steps beyond the limitations of the bankers' bonuses to make sure that we also succeed with fund managers. and it would have been desirable, above all, to have included liabilities in the area of the leverage ratio, although it is of course already very positive that now even for ordinary bank customers it will soon become clearer which business model is actually pursued by the banks and what risk is involved. but you also know, of course, that the big nut is still to be cracked. arlene mccarthy is working on it. we also have to be able to separate the commercial banks from the investment banks. and yes, we also need to reduce systemic risk to the point where it can no longer or can be contained not only in a relatively diffuse eu banking world, but also in nation states. that means, in the end, we need to break up and re-establish the banking sector in many areas also in the national state, so that no national bank has to be paid out by the national taxpayers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the debate today has clearly demonstrated the determination of this house to live up to our responsibilities. i would like to thank all those involved for their thanks. we did a good job together. we shall support the amendment after this debate and delete point (d) in rule 416 (1). the debate also showed that we need to keep up the momentum: in the realisation of banking union, in the implementation of fiscal union, in the fight against tax havens and the shadow banking system, and in the other regulatory projects. and we need to rethink that, too. it was a burden on the negotiations that the council presidency changed three times during the negotiations. we have to come to a different methodology here. we are pleased that these rules will come into force on 1 january 2014 and that europe will be a role model in the world. we do not let the mistakes of others block us from doing what we feel is right and necessary. there 's been a few cuts . the pension funds have been taken into account where necessary. the cultural change has been initiated by transparency, bonus limitation and functional limitations. flexibility does not distort competition because it can only be implemented within the framework of a common european legislative system. and the government bonds are mentioned. there must be a report from the commission. thank you very much. we've answered all your questions. and i want to thank you all for the congratulations, but most of all, thank you for the work! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should also like to stress very clearly at the outset what the president of this house said about boston. our sympathy goes out to the victims and their families. mr prime minister, you said that fair integration was the headline of your speech. i can agree not with all the details, but we will get to that because i think that is what we have to fight for in europe. the fact is that we are in a disastrous situation in europe today, with unemployment and the current social and political situation. you also mentioned that many citizens in our europe do not agree with european policies and that more and more of them are against europe itself. that is a danger. it is not only about specific policies. we absolutely have to take up the citizens' concerns and be serious about them without going into populism. but then, prime minister, we also have to be fair to the citizens. you spoke about the situation in finland some years ago. finland was not yet in the euro zone. there was no euro zone. it does make a difference whether you are in the euro zone or not. the latvian case, which has been mentioned again and again, was not a euro zone case. in the euro zone the situation is different, and we have to have a different kind of solidarity and more european solutions. second, we are in a depression a recession. we are in a recession which is, unfortunately, even being promoted by the policy of the european union. how can we convince citizens to reform the labour market, for example, when the main message from europe is reducing the social fabric and reducing and cutting social spending, including spending and i shall come back to the example of portugal on education? you spoke with the citizens of portugal. i agree completely that it's a very good thing that you were there. but did you ask the citizens what they think about the troika and european union policies in their own country about the troika which agreed on the package which the portuguese constitutional court said was unconstitutional? this is how european policy is seen by many citizens today. therefore, we have to change our policy. we will come to that immediately. you are right that fair integration means cooperation between the north and the south. i have been to finland several times, and i always try to meet institutions and start-ups in the technological field. finland has a lot to offer, not just with reference to the macroeconomic but also to the microeconomic development. why don't we use more of these cooperative models between the north and the south to create some ways of making reforms and changes? but let me come back to the macroeconomic situation. the commission president and vice-president rehn very often say that the next semester will be better. they have been saying for many years now that it will soon be better and that we shall soon reach the end of the tunnel. but we can't see the light at the end of the tunnel because it's not there. again we have these promises. this is what european citizens see today, and the troika is de facto malfunctioning. the members of the troika argue increasingly often about who is responsible for what. i think we should stop that. the commission is responsible for the policies. we may not like many of the things that mr rehn does, but he is a responsible person. i want him to be responsible, not the troika of the imf and the ecb, which increasingly we cannot not see what it is doing. it is not a democratically-based institution. the commission is elected and is democratically-based. let's stop playing this game. let the commission have responsibility. of course the council has to agree, but we have to change this trend, because citizens are getting more and more annoyed by this kind of activity. we have to change. the same is true not only in cyprus and portugal but in other countries as well. finally, concerning growth: we need more growth in order to convince citizens to make the necessary reforms. we may agree on several of the reforms, but again, psychologically it is not possible to ask people to enact reforms if there is no hope that they will lead to development. people always say that there is no money for growth. there is no money? we produced a study from an independent institution, and fortunately the commission also took it up. one trillion euros are lost by the tax authorities in europe each year. if only part of that had gone to the tax authorities, we could pay back the debt or finance an economic growth project for europe. when the media started to take up the issue and published many of these things, even mr cameron said that it's time to wake up and smell the coffee. not only is it time to smell the coffee, but to drink the coffee as well. now is the time to drink the coffee and to do something about it. sometimes mr cameron may also drink coffee and, as the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. we want to see mr cameron has been meeting ms merkel what the governments do. i hope that your prime minister and other prime ministers will have more than just explanations and promises and will work on that. because this is about fair integration. it's not fair that many of the rich can take their money out into tax havens while the poor have to pay the tax. it's not fair and we need to reconsider this. why don't we have in europe something like the corporate tax fairness act, as they do in the us? why should we look on as the us fights with switzerland and others in order to get their taxes back without doing anything? we need help. luxembourg has already moved, and austria will have to move the prime minister and the minister of finance made some remarks on this. then we have the common strategy, and we have to support the commission and commissioner šemeta on a common strategy against tax evasion. i am very happy that your finance minister, jutta urpilainen, is working on this issue. i hope you give her your full support. i am very happy that some of the finance ministers are doing something on this very important issue. but of course, we have to work on the tax differentials in the european union. we do not need a uniform tax, but at least at first a uniform tax base. it is not good that many companies from portugal go to the netherlands, not in order to invest but just to save taxes. this has nothing to do with fairness, european cooperation and national responsibility going together with europe. of course, prime minister, i would be very happy if you could change your mind on the financial transaction tax, because that could also be part of the fair europe and the fair integration that we need. why not join the other countries which are moving in that direction? maybe you will be convinced very soon. i hope that you will be convinced. in the end, the prime ministers of europe have taken responsibility through the european council. they have much more interest and engagement and, hopefully, much more responsibility. if we come to a point where fairness, transparency which is vital for the tax issue and social justice are high on the agenda, prime minister, i think we can really help to bring about fair integration. this is what we need in europe. but please consider that in the euro zone, fair integration means much more integration than it did at the time when finland was able to solve its problems alone. so consider the finnish example, but in a fair, transparent way in the euro zone. that would give europe a good boost forward. thank you for your attention.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm just shocked by your speech. we have a crisis in europe: financial crisis, unemployment crisis, structural crisis. and what is your answer to that? three points: an integrated energy market - we can still talk about whether this will solve the crisis. i don't think so, but it is necessary. but then you propose a concrete defence policy! how do you propose to solve this crisis with a defence policy? then propose an extension! we haven't even digested the last few expansions, and you're already suggesting the next expansions! how do you propose to solve the crisis? you have not made a single proposal to solve this crisis. you have only referred to utopias, which consist in your wanting a defence policy which i, as a neutral austrian, reject because it does not solve the crisis. and you are not in a position to provide jobs for young people in spain, portugal, greece and cyprus by pushing a defence policy. this europe is not a question of defence policy, this is a europe which must create competition, where economic truth must be restored and no crazy defence policy proposals must be put forward!
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this question concerns the agile company in italy. more than 1,200 people have been made redundant in 12 of the country's 19 regions. the economic and financial crisis is not limited to the information and communication technology sector. i therefore recommend that we vote in favour of the citizens concerned and i thank each and every one of them for their cooperation.
in writing. − the agency's move to brussels is very welcome and will considerably increase its scope and speed of response, particularly in view of its proximity (both in terms of space and content) to the european parliament. the use of the coordinating body and the it emergency response is very useful, both at national and european level. network and information security are a volatile and constantly evolving issue that needs and should receive our particular attention.
in writing. - the alarming figures for the decline in the whale population are particularly clear in this report. regulation (ec) no 812/2004 had serious shortcomings, such as deterioration of whale habitats, collisions with fishing boats and underwater noise. technical specifications and conditions of use of acoustic deterrents could therefore be useful for the detection of whale catches in fisheries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, because in my opinon it represents the continuity of an old agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritius (from 1989), it represents the continuity of an ‘industry’/‘economical field’ (– fish processing) that, being exploited, contributes to the economic growth of both parties. at the same time, it reduces iuu fishing and promotes better monitored and organised fishing activities. both parties can benefit from this, which is shown in all evaluations done by the european commission with regard to the ‘fishery activity’ in the mauritius area. every report done has concluded that exploiting this natural resource, by the eu and by the republic of mauritius together, represents a contribution to the national and international gdp and keeps building trust and developing long-term and mutually-friendly relationships at a global level.
in writing. − the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to open additional investigations against self-appointed whistleblower and cleanliness and transparency campaigner hans-peter martin on the basis of new allegations that martin committed alleged serious fraud under sections 146, 147 (3) of the austrian criminal code by registering a third person as a parliamentary assistant, but this person allegedly never performed activities for him in connection with his parliamentary work, and thus employees of the european parliament were deceived into paying salaries, including social security contributions, to this person. the vienna public prosecutor's office also intends to investigate the use of the entire campaign campaign reimbursement amount, due to the additional allegations that the alleged misuse of party funds is additional amounts. over a million euros is said to have been misused by martin. a disgraceful course of action by martin, the court would later confirm. i voted for the waiver of immunity, of course, to finally shed light on mr martin's incredible activities.
in writing. − the egf is intended to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of globalisation and the economic crisis and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the request of italy (from regions such as marche and umbria, in particular ancona and perugia) is now under consideration; the employment situation in these regions has deteriorated, and there has been no increase in the italian market for household appliances since 2008. the request meets all the necessary requirements and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, the egf is intended to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of globalisation and the economic crisis and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. this application concerns 1,257 it layoffs: the employment situation in italy has deteriorated since 2009 and has confirmed that the once 'safe' italian it market has also been affected by the economic and financial crisis. the application has been examined and meets all the requirements and therefore the report should have been voted in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to assist workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market. the application relates to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 941 999 from the egf for austria. it concerns 320 redundancies at austria tabak gmbh and 14 suppliers/downstream producers and support for 270 employees during the four-month reference period from 20 august 2011 to 19 december 2011, all of whom are eligible for measures co-financed by the egf. austria justifies its application for support from the egf and the application of the 'exceptional circumstances' criterion by the particular situation of the border region in which the redundancies occurred and the serious impact of the redundancies on the local and regional economy and the labour market concerned. i think the reasoning is absolutely clear, which is why i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. the closure of the hainach plant, the last production site of austria tabak, resulted in the loss of 320 jobs. the egf will now be able to help 270 workers directly to find a new job or to improve their skills through further training or retraining. the decision to approve the application for aid for the former employees of austria tabak and its suppliers is welcome. however, it is a small step that it took almost 14 months to reach this decision. the egf provides a european safety net to counter the negative effects of globalisation. since 2007, the fund has supported almost 95 000 people with over eur 950 million. the fund has proved its worth in practice and is the expression of a social and just europe. for this reason too, the budgetary negotiations for the multiannual financial framework should ensure that the resources of the egf and the structural funds are not affected by cuts and austerity policies.
in writing. − the egf is designed to help workers who have been affected by the effects of globalisation and the economic crisis to reintegrate into the labour market. the request from austria has been examined and concerns 320 redundancies. in general, as a result of the economic and financial crisis and the decline in the production of cigarettes and tobacco products in europe (changes in the pattern of world trade, decline in the eu's market share and shifting of production to third countries), the employment situation in austria has deteriorated. the application complies with all the commission's requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - in the interests of a minimally bureaucratic and simple approach to economic partnership agreements, this proposal should be accepted. it is appropriate to confer on the commission sufficient powers to amend those lists of potential partners for economic agreements where changes occur due to delays or ratification.
in writing. - i voted against rejecting the backloading proposal for three reasons: i am convinced that a functioning emissions trading system is a tool, albeit one that deserves improvement, for achieving the energy transition needed to meet climate goals. 2. i am convinced that the necessary investment in research, development and innovation will only take place if it is economically attractive to businesses. i am convinced that the investment boost triggered by a higher price of allowances will create new jobs in europe and make a decisive contribution to the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. - in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on am 20. the principle is, of course, to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
in writing. - in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on am 20. the principle is to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
in writing. - in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained from voting on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on the 20th report. the principle is, of course, to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
in writing. this report is about the timing of auctions of greenhouse gas emission allowances. the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is an important tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions in the eu. since the start of the eu ets, emissions have been declining and are currently marked by severe imbalances. the current economic crisis has led to an oversupply of emission allowances and a number of provisions on the transition to the third trading period (20132020). by the end of 2011, an overhang of 955 million allowances had been built up. as supply far exceeds demand, there is a significant decrease in the price of co2. therefore, this does not promote sustainable scientific and technological innovation. the report aims to clarify the timing of auctioning of allowances and, as a result, not to undermine the stability and predictability of the eu ets. short-term measures should not be seen as a solution but as an option to ensure stability until long-term structural measures are taken.
in writing. - from a purely ecological point of view, i cannot in principle agree with this proposal to suspend the eu ets for certain areas, even if only for a period of one year. however, a consensus-based, global solution is absolutely desirable, which is why the approach of compromise on the part of the european union seems to be a step in the right direction. the report is therefore unanimously approved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the report by my colleague othmar karas because i consider it to be a mere showcase. if today the finnish prime minister katainen has been talking about the need to follow rules, then this is a rule that is certainly not being followed. there's been other rules that have been broken. i am thinking, for example, of the no-bailout clause or the maastricht criteria which were not respected and which in turn fuelled and made possible the financial crisis. this proposal contains numerous possibilities for circumventing bonuses. it is simply naive to believe that this provision will make it impossible to pay bonuses to bank managers who engage in speculation. there are many ways around it. there is no culture change in the banking sector. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. if i look at how the original article 90, which is supposed to deal with this question, has changed compared with the new article 90 which has been adopted, it is clear that the bank managers have changed their minds again. they've packed so many loopholes into this regulation that it's not worth the paper it's written on. in the end, we continue to feed banks that must be allowed to go bankrupt. the only clearing effect that would occur would be if speculators lost their speculation if you let the banks go bankrupt. it's the only thing that's really effective.
in writing. − in theory, the banking reform package with a limit on bankers' bonuses, tightened capital requirements for banks and simplified lending to smes may sound quite good. if in future the bonus payments of bankers are to be limited to an annual salary, then the willingness to put the respective credit institution in serious difficulties by engaging in high-risk speculative activities will be significantly reduced. however, experience has shown that further tightening of capital requirements will go hand in hand with a further shortage of credit for smes and will run counter to the plan of simplification for smes. i also think it is a serious systemic error if the new european banking supervision does not provide for the separation of investment banking from traditional banking. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. - the basel iii compromise is a major milestone in many ways! the crd-iv package adopted today is an important step towards banking union. from january 2014 we will gradually have more and better equity, better liquidity standards, additional, countercyclical and systemic capital buffers, better transparency rules and a compensation factor for smes and start-ups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is able to recover from and stabilise itself in the event of a new crisis. another new feature is that for the first time there will be a bonus limit for bank managers! this is a great success for the european parliament! however, further regulation of the financial market is necessary! the fact is that business is increasingly being shifted to the unregulated world of shadow banking. we cannot allow shadow banking to be used as a backdoor for the financial industry. the commission must act very quickly and close this regulatory gap!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you do the right thing at the wrong time, it's wrong. this proposal for the implementation of basel iii, as proposed here in the report by mr karas, comes at the wrong time. just when the economy needs the liquidity of the banks, basel iii requires a higher capital ratio for the banks. this is a bad time. this would have been a regulation that should have been made at a time when the economy was booming. now it's being arranged at the wrong time. the whole shadow banking problem is unresolved. the urgent need to reinstate the separate banking system, which was unfortunately eliminated under clinton worldwide, is not being addressed. that was a big mistake. roosevelt had that rule in place after the great depression and the bank crashes, and it turned out to be right. the distortion of competition is not being addressed by continuing to feed sick banks at the taxpayer's expense. if commissioner barnier is now proposing a regulation for june which would finally involve the shareholders, speculators, investors and investors, rather than the taxpayer, then that is the right way to go. but we have not yet had any, and unfortunately this report does not have any. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - to prevent a repeat of the crisis, a limitation of bankers' bonuses, which i am in favour of, will not be sufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is not affected by the current crisis. the new european banking supervision does not provide for the separation of investment banking from traditional banking. if banks can continue to speculate on the devil's play, it is only a matter of time before credit institutions are once again on the verge of bankruptcy and have to be bailed out by taxpayers' money. until this serious system error is finally eliminated, the basic problem will remain. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - the basel iii compromise is a major milestone in many ways! the crd-iv package adopted today is an important step towards banking union. from january 2014 we will gradually have more and better equity, better liquidity standards, additional, countercyclical and systemic capital buffers, better transparency rules and a compensation factor for smes and start-ups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is able to recover from and stabilise itself in the event of a new crisis. another new feature is that for the first time there will be a bonus limit for bank managers! this is a great success for the european parliament! however, further regulation of the financial market is necessary! the fact is that business is increasingly being shifted to the unregulated world of shadow banking. we cannot allow shadow banking to be used as a backdoor for the financial industry. the commission must act very quickly and close this regulatory gap!
in writing. − the report makes clear references to ‘banking regulations measures’ that stabilise the european banking sector and could be a solution for many of the issues that arose from the financial and economic crisis within european countries in the last few years. the overall objective is to harmonise the capital requirements of european banks and set them at the same level. the positive aspects of a ‘single banking regulation’ are: it will secure money deposits, and strengthen loans and financing methods for smes – meaning that credit availability for smes will increase, providing and ensuring an adequate credit flow and transfer to the real economy, translated into economic growth and new employment opportunities for our citizens. other positive aspects are: the leverage ratio – that could and should be looked at as a ‘safeguard’ instrument against the ‘bankruptcy risk’ and other different risks that would be associated with the ‘increase in investments’ of the institutions and companies; the capital and liquidity ‘buffers’ that would counterbalance the lending activities of the banks, reduce the probability of credit bubbles and ensure the necessary liquid means (liquidity coverage ratio) so that banks are in a position to cover losses should that be the case, in order to avoid economic and political disasters, like, for instance, greece and cyprus.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. in principle, i am in favour of this approach, since competition is important for the economy. in this case, as so often, the devil is in the detail. firstly, i think this is a matter which should be left to the member states. the subsidiarity principle is being violated here for the first time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airport infrastructure is not affected by the introduction of the new airport infrastructure. this would have many negative consequences for air passengers. the amendments would have particularly negative consequences for airport workers, as the new rules would lead to wage dumping. this would certainly be a false signal, one which the eu should not send, especially in difficult economic times. it can be seen that the existing arrangements ensure sufficient competition and also ensure the necessary quality and a corresponding level of pay. i therefore express my clear opposition to this report and its demands.
in writing. the european commission, in its proposal for the reorganisation of ground transport services, is pursuing the path of liberalisation at all costs. i voted against this report because this opening up of the market does not lead to more quality and better competition. on the contrary, competition is carried out on the backs of the workers. the massive price pressure will necessarily reduce quality for passengers. this is the wrong way. unfortunately, the conservative-liberal majority in the european parliament is also following a dogmatic market ideology. the text does not include any mandatory provisions on health and safety measures, nor does it take sufficient account of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has also rejected takeover guarantees for the employees in all the ground handling sectors. the trade unions have rightly opposed this regulation and have gone on strike in front of the european parliament both in strasbourg and in brussels. i fully support the trade unions and the ground transport workers and therefore regret that mr zasada's report has been adopted.
in writing. - it is difficult to see why, after catching large quantities of fish, one should bother to throw certain species back into the sea. the fact that fish that is perfectly fine is thrown overboard is considered incomprehensible and even immoral in view of the problems of feeding the world's population. however, the report contains sound information, in particular as it aims to develop uniform rules for fishing in the skagerrak area and also reports on possible control instruments to facilitate this.
in writing. - in general, the pursuit of equal treatment is welcome. however, history has shown that the best intentions have often been used to miss the mark. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore rejected the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to implement the equal treatment directive in access to and supply of goods and services. the report rightly criticises the fact that the directive has been transposed into national law only in part in an unsatisfactory or delayed manner. gender discrimination still exists, particularly in the setting of insurance premiums for life insurance or in the provision of credit. the report calls on the commission to provide comprehensive data in this context. in addition, good suggestions are made on how to close existing gaps in equality legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i am a strong supporter of the principle of equal treatment between women and men and i strongly believe that ‘rights’ should be ‘equal’ for all citizens of europe without taking into consideration their gender. in my opinion, equality of women and men should be treated on a large scale of areas, like ‘gender pay gap’, unemployment, job offers, violence against women and, last but not least, in the access to and supply of goods and services field. i voted in favour of the report because, in my opinion, there is still a lot to do in order to achieve gender equality and to improve the economic (and political) situation and position of women all over the world.
in writing. - we must give the developing countries the opportunity to extricate themselves from the crisis. the traditional development aid can be considered a failure. development aid is always expensive, often ineffective and sometimes even harmful, because the specific problems of a country are often or all too often not addressed. however, the eu's trade policy in developing countries has not been as successful as it should have been, and competition with other eu policies has often exacerbated the problem. if we give money to small farmers in africa, for example, and at the same time ruin them with subsidized agricultural products, we end up throwing billions out the window. this will change little as long as we continue to support large corporations in the eu and indirectly in developing countries. i therefore do not consider this report to be useful and have rejected it.
in writing. the report also examines the role of trade and investment-led growth in developing countries. trade and investment are instruments to achieve the objectives, but cannot be the only determinants of growth and sustainable development, as structural deficits, such as in infrastructure, impede full access to world trade. competitiveness and productivity are increased, social cohesion is improved and inequality is tackled. the effectiveness is reduced by lack of coordination and can reduce citizens' confidence in the measures. full transparency must be ensured in respect of payments made by european companies to governments. a coordinated system (unctad and wto) should be established to facilitate international, national and local cooperation between donors. international investment agreements should be reformed to strengthen the development dimension.
i have to say, madam president, the ecb provides the largest share of its so-called aid to countries in crisis through government bond purchases and target2 credits. and the burden and the risks of this accident are borne by the citizen. so the ecb does fiscal policy. the european council has always been the most important institution in the world. the weakness of the target system was only a catalyst for the debt crisis. unlimited loans between central banks without repayment - in fact, you could write here forever and for years the crisis countries saved themselves. the policy implications were that the first and second life rafts were necessary to relieve the overburdened system. so, the old adage is, if the first credit card is overdrawn, we need a second credit card. this was the only way to cover the output shortfall and avoid the necessary reforms to improve competitiveness. i would therefore ask you, mr draghi, when do you intend to tackle the problem of the target2 settlement? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll give you a hint: certainly not free market economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. discharge plays a very important role in public life. the public is extremely sensitive to the proper working of the system, to the proper provision of funding. that is why this process of discharge is particularly important for the future. it is also important to communicate the honest and clear decision in this area to the general public. i would therefore like to thank europarltv very much for the fact that, although it does not reach the mass of viewers, it at least provides an opportunity for the public to be well represented on these issues and that it therefore becomes possible for many television stations to broadcast our debates accordingly. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to analyse how much the national governments spend on public broadcasting and public television per capita of european citizens and how much we provide for europarltv for the information of the citizens. this is a major challenge. the second point is joint ventures. what about the merger of eniac and artemis? we have asked for a study to be made here in parliament. we want to see if there can be efficiency gains here, and possibly also in other joint ventures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another issue concerns the progress report, where we see repeated rates of error, such as in the iter tendering failures. we want to see if there are areas for improvement and, finally, we want to know whether greece is really entitled to receive national contributions from the eu structural funds.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 17 april 2013, at 11.30. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the food authority, the so-called efsa: it should no longer be financed in this form! in germany, about 40 people died from the effects of the ehec strain in 2011 alone. turns out ehec was caused by contaminated spores from egypt. where was efsa when these dangerous germs were imported? and the horse meat scandal also revealed that the dutch dealer had not been checked since 2011! once again, where was efsa? there are still massive conflicts of interest and a lack of transparency. many of the authority's staff and experts had previously worked for large food companies or relevant lobbies. this problem will not be solved by ethics seminars! the negotiations on the transatlantic free trade area will show whether efsa will protect us from hormone meat and genetically modified potatoes from the usa!
the next item is the debate on the report by ms monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2014 (2013/2018 ((bud)) (a7-0112/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 17 april 2013, at 11.30.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation of mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and ukraine amending the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas (12282/2012 c7-0200/2012 2012/0138 ((nle)) (a7-0059/2013).
mr president, on my own behalf and also on behalf of the greens/efa group in parliament, i would like to say that of course the greens/efa group stands strongly behind the principle of visa liberalisation and visa facilitation for ukraine too, because it is true, as the commissioner and others have said, that it is for citizens, it is not for governments. nevertheless, i would like to quote commissioner füle from 7 december, when he said: ‘legislative initiatives like the one on homosexual propaganda stand in contradiction to the requirements of the relevant benchmarks of the eu-ukraine visa liberalisation action plan’. that is why i would also support the proposal by the alde group, and hope my group will support it tomorrow as well. i would like to call on the s&d group as well to consider again whether to refer it back to committee and make clear to the ukrainian parliament that laws like that, which put lesbians and gays in fear of criminalisation, are unacceptable by european standards. i say that as a lesbian woman myself; many of us have fought for years to be more visible, to live out of the closet, to live without fear and to make it clear to everybody else that they do not have to be afraid of us. what is happening in ukraine with a law like that, if it becomes law, is really something that is totally unacceptable and un-european. nevertheless, if the visa facilitation passes – and i repeat again that it is important to give citizens the right to travel – i would definitely agree with all those who say we must take this last step if a law like that criminalises lesbian and gay people. that simply must not happen in a european country.
the commission has already done so. the commission proposal essentially determines which areas are eligible for regional aid and the extent to which public investment support can continue to be granted in the future. the commission's proposals would involve a massive reduction of the austrian aid intensity by up to 50% compared with the current situation, also in comparison with other member states, and would also prohibit the aid to large companies. for my home state, lower austria, the european commission's proposals for this drastic reduction of austrian aid under the eu regional aid scheme are to be rejected emphatically. we therefore call for the necessary margin of manoeuvre to be maintained by means of a suitable backdrop of assisted areas, both for an effective regional economic policy to support structurally weak regions in lower austria and for the reduction of national differences - this applies not only to lower austria but to all the member states - and for the possibility to be provided of including large companies in these considerations. the 251st worker cannot be a reason for a company not to give these benefits. we need to promote the labour market! we need jobs in europe!
the commission has already done so. i'm afraid one minute is too short. that is why i have one final sentence, which is very important to me. it has been mentioned by mr zeller before: the gap in support between all regional regions and all classes of undertaking should be limited to a maximum of 15%. i think that is a phrase, mr commissioner almunia, which you should take with you from today's debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the hungarian people have always been a people who loved freedom. it has resisted austrian domination, it has resisted soviet occupation and the communist regime. one who resisted the lack of freedom was viktor orbán in his early years. why viktor orbán left this path and when exactly the change of heart came, i do not know. the hungarian parliament has the right to adopt the constitution and the laws. but in no country, at least in no european union state, can laws be passed at will. in no state governed by the rule of law is it permissible to make simple laws constitutional in order to prevent the constitutional court from acting. in no state of law is it permissible for judges to simply retire early. the european court of justice has found this and hungary has still not complied with the findings of the european court of justice. in no state governed by the rule of law is it permissible to assign the citizen to the court at the discretion of the authorities and to deny the legal judge. in no state governed by the rule of law is it permissible to restrict electoral advertising - as the commissioner has said - unduly. and in no state of law is it permissible to punish the citizen for a government violating the law and perhaps being brought before the european court of justice. i know that many hungarian citizens do not see this as the main problem. they have great economic and social problems. but the economic and social problems in hungary are not solved by violating the rule of law, any more than the problem of homelessness is solved by discriminating against and persecuting the homeless. (applause from the centre) all the criticisms that are put forward are rejected as leftist criticisms. president barroso a leftist? vice-president reding, a leftist? foreign minister spindelegger, the chairman of the austrian people's party a leftist? it's a ridiculous thing to say. ladies and gentlemen of the european people's party, you received mr orbán yesterday. i see some here who have criticized him, as i have heard. i also see many who applauded him. but you have to make a choice in the end: are you on the side of the commission, of vice-president reding, or on the side of orbán and the violation of the law? are you on the side of the rule of law and the observance of the rule of law or not? i would also ask the council to take a clear position. because what i heard today wasn't clear. i would like to ask you to support the commission in its legal work. we have had some disagreements, particularly with regard to romania, where the situation is quite different, but that is not the point today. the question today - and i said back then that i supported the commission - is whether we can trust the commissioner to help the law to make a breakthrough. that is the crucial question! and the european people's party cannot be cowed by this. we, as social democrats, are on the right side of the question. and let me make one last remark: ronald lauder has been very critical of the jewish community in the united states, and more recently of the international auschwitz committee. i do not blame orbán for the rise in anti-semitism, but you cannot stand by and watch, ladies and gentlemen of the european people's party, as university professors in hungary today write "jew", "jew", "jew" on their name boards with impunity and paint the swastika. i expect a clear statement from the hungarian prime minister and fidesz. antisemitism must end in hungary! there must be a clear position! (applause from the centre)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. as regards the second question, it was not the vienna government, but the austrian parliament 30 years ago, mr szájer! and that has been heavily criticized by me and many other colleagues. you should know better. secondly, it is always difficult to follow because there are decisions in parliament all the time. i'll take that under advisement. mr szájer, i think this is proof of the importance of european pressure on the hungarian government to bring about change. but i would ask you, mr szájer, to put an end to the incitement against mrs reding in hungary. because if mrs reding, as vice-president of the commission, is being portrayed in hungary today as a 'pit bull' of the commission and europe, and this is tolerated, then this is also unacceptable incitement for me, who is not a political friend of mrs reding, and it must be stopped. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the situation in hungary has been on our minds for far too long. for more than a year now, the hungarian government should have been making an effort to take the concerns of the majority of the european parliament seriously. unfortunately, she's pretty much untouched by it. in some cases, while verbal concessions are made, steps are taken that challenge the spirit of the treaties, such as the fourth amendment. nationalist slogans, both foreign and domestic, are creating a climate which is increasingly distancing hungary from europe. european values and principles are being violated and systematically underestimated. this regrettable development is not only a matter of the union's relations with hungary, it is of fundamental importance for the future of the european project. the committee on civil liberties will present a report to the plenary on the basis of facts. but we must send a clear message to the political leaders in hungary: take our concerns seriously, in the interests of hungary and in the interests of our common europe. we have no time for power games based on purely domestic political calculations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commission vice-president, you said mistakes have been made. well, grave mistakes have been made; mistakes which should never have been made. i do not know about your personal role: there are many rumours, but that also shows the lack of transparency. however, you should never have agreed to the attack on deposits below the eur 100 000 limit. that is not acceptable. (applause)it has destroyed all confidence and trust in the promises of the european union. therefore i think we should change the whole structure of our policies and of the methods. as i said, commission vice-president, yesterday, we may not like – and we very often disagree with – your policies, but you are democratically elected. you are responsible to this parliament; the troika is not. stop the troika! we do not need the troika; it is not necessary. (applause)are you aware of the rude behaviour of the troika? do you know how they treated the elected president of cyprus? ask them, and ask the cypriot representatives. the troika’s rudeness to the elected representatives and to the citizens of cyprus and other countries is not acceptable. let us stop the troika. you and your colleagues are responsible. you are democratically legitimised, and we want to speak with you about that. we do not need imf loans. mrs lagarde says one thing and the imf representatives do something else. you have to coordinate, of course, with the ecb, but we have to change. we also have to change our attitude in parliament. we should create a sub-group or a subcommittee, or whatever institutional option we decide on, to deal with the euro issue, because we need a real dialogue between the commission, the council and the eurogroup and also with parliament, and we have to be ready for that dialogue. thirdly, i really must say that some members of the council – like mr schäuble –make comments that are of a neo-colonial nature, talking down to the citizens. this is not acceptable. mr schäuble should instead be trying to ensure that we get a real banking union and a single resolution mechanism. he is already making difficulties, saying that perhaps the constitution will need to be changed. it is already clear that there is no willingness, at least before the election. maybe there will be after the election, but that is not acceptable; we need an efficient and viable banking union. my last point is that cyprus has potential. cyprus has good people, who want to go for innovation and the diversification of the economy, and they will have income from gas and oil. give them the time and the possibility to develop an alternative economy. yes, they need to reduce the banking sector and they need diversification; but we are here to help them – we are here to help the cypriot people and not to dominate them.
in writing. – the problem of financial instability has been known to all relevant parties for a long time. two years ago i submitted a question to the council – the answer was that there would be no need for further steps in the framework of a deficit procedure. also two years ago, the commission stated in response to my question analysing the severe deterioration of cyprus’s economy, that the ‘downward trend will not continue’. looking at the development of cyprus’s economy, today’s situation can be summarised by saying that 0.2 % of gdp can bring the eurozone to the edge of the abyss. it is the cypriot people who suffer the most from this development. wrong decisions led to severe mistakes and the worst development for the eurozone. it would be politically correct to have a hearing with all parties concerned to avoid the development that has led to such a severe crisis. now, however, the commission is explicitly asked to take responsibility to support the cypriot people: 1. young people have to be given a perspective – find initiatives to support their education. 2. employees as well as self-employed people have to be respected in their knowledge and capacities – let us support the smes.
in writing. - the budgetary management of the european commission but also of the member states remains to be desired. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. not to mention that there is no improvement in the confusion of eu agencies, with their overlapping competences and duplications. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal. i therefore do not support the report.
in writing. − once again, the court of auditors has highlighted the great potential for improvement in the eu. the fact that various european policies, such as the fisheries strategy, do not work, for example in the area of fishing quotas, has been known for some time. the continuation of some european paths of error is, in any case, a cause for concern. the eu is throwing billions of taxpayers' money out the window by continuing to pursue policies that are often the exact opposite. it is time to develop clear overall strategies. this is also missing from the present report, which i do not approve of.
in writing. − as in the rest of the eu, there is a lot of savings potential in the european parliament. i am thinking in particular of the lux film prize or the ep-tv. the fact that this is not being used or has not been used to the required extent is a shame, especially in view of the ongoing euro crisis. i have rejected this report on the discharge of the european parliament in protest at the waste of taxpayers' money.
in writing. − only with a high level of cleanliness and transparency on all sides of the eu institutions can the eu continue to function and no longer disappoint the trust of its citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. unfortunately, in the financial year under review, neither greater transparency nor a degree of economy in the use of taxpayers' money was taken into account, as was appropriate in the context of the ongoing crisis. the new palace for the head of the council is a blast. i cannot agree with the report for these reasons.
in writing. − a close control of the finances of all eu institutions and their continuous improvement in terms of transparency standards is strongly encouraged. the european union is a union of citizens and must therefore make its actions, especially in the financial field, verifiable and understandable.
in writing. − the reinforcement of the court's staff is very welcome, its case law and administration of justice are the foundation of a functioning european union and therefore deserve special support. the improvement of the efficiency of an organisational unit is particularly advisable in the field of judicial work, especially with regard to the duration of individual proceedings. the increase in electronic processing leads to a reduction in (paper) costs and easy access. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. − projects to bring together services and to achieve synergies are very welcome. economic and transparent procedures are to be welcomed within the institutions of the european union and can only be considered with approval.
in writing. − the ombudsman is a very important institution of the european union. it is therefore very welcome that no significant deficiencies have been identified and that improvements are to be made to the financial planning and the rate of implementation. a reduction in the average time taken to process cases is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the data protection officer is a very important institution of the european union. no significant deficiencies were identified and the implementation of the annual budget is to be improved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're about halfway through the agency reports. there are six members, including the president, who are listening to you, mrs macovei. i would suggest that you submit your reports in writing, which i am sure you will also do for the other agencies and companies, so that we can move a little faster, because the number of people who are listening is really quite manageable. i believe that the number of translators in the booths is much higher.
in writing. − the total volume of the draft budget proposal for 2014 is set at eur 1 808 144 206. this represents a net increase of 3.29% compared to 2013. the committee on budgets explained this, among other things, with the eu elections scheduled for 2014 (1.30%) and the forthcoming accession of croatia in 2014 (0.78%). the increase in inflation accounts for 1.9%. i voted against the report because, although the commission is planning to make savings, it is not yet clear which areas these savings will be made in, apart from the few mentioned, such as interpretation costs, parliamentary television or travel costs. in my view, the report on the savings achieved in the 2013 budget should also be awaited in this respect.
in writing. − the report proposes a structured savings strategy for the european parliament's budget. this made me vote in favour of the report. major savings have been achieved. costs for energy consumption, parliamentary assistance, the fitting-out of premises and other reserves were considerably decreased, which led to a direct decrease in the ep’s annual administrative costs and, as a consequence, to a decrease in the final expenditures of the ep for one financial year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yesterday, commissioner barnier said that he wanted to see a future in which it was not the taxpayer who had to pay for the failure of banks, but investors and speculators, shareholders and shareholders and holders of deposits of over eur 100 000 in bank accounts. and now we are demanding the exact opposite and are trying to extend the already problematic esm as an instrument for the area that is not part of the eurozone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you say a yesterday and z today, that is simply the opposite of what was announced yesterday politically. i am therefore surprised that the majority groups did not take yesterday's debate to heart enough to at least slow down and send this report back in the light of the announcements made by commissioner barnier, who has indeed announced a proposal for the house for june which is the exact opposite of what has been proposed by mrs danuta hübner. i am also surprised that more colleagues have not recognised this contradiction and have not defended themselves against it.
in writing. - the creation of a financial assistance facility for member states whose currency is not the euro sounds good at first. why should there be such a construct in the form of the efsf or the esm only between the euro countries? the title alone tells us that the eu is once again ready to break the treaty without any qualms. it provides for a ban on bailout, i.e. a ban on direct or indirect state financing by the eu or any of its member countries. the second major problem is that once again a construct is being created here to draw taxpayers' money to the rescue of banks and to redirect it. that is absolutely unacceptable. the banking sector, like other sectors of the economy, needs to be restructured. not every bank is systemically relevant. the danger of further bankruptcy and waste of taxpayers' money is therefore a factor which has led me to vote against the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - as the rapporteur herself states that she 'cannot cover all the issues [...] which are addressed in this particularly important proposal for a regulation', this interim report cannot be accepted in its present form. at least some mention of any other relevant areas would be necessary to obtain a comprehensive and consistent picture. i am generally in favour of the calls by the honourable member for sufficient transparency and accountability in the context of these instruments. the commission's proposals for the modification of the esm (in the form of an opening) and for another recapitalisation instrument in the form of a loan are also very problematic, as they involve far too great risks. they are therefore not acceptable. that is why we can only abstain.
in writing. − the ecb's annual report 2011 provides a good overview of the ecb's activities, especially in the context of the euro crisis. for a critical reader, it shows very clearly how much the ecb has extended its real mandate of ensuring price stability in the euro area independently and without any legal basis. the purchase of bonds, even on the secondary market, is not the ecb's responsibility and constitutes a covert state financing. printing money will not solve the problems in the eurozone, which is a misconception in itself. the report does not, of course, seek to criticize the work of the ecb, but rather to praise this failed policy, so i can only vote against it.
in writing. − parliament wants the ecb to be more accountable and transparent in its activity, by requesting that the eu’s central bank be more effectively involved on matters and topics with regard to economic growth and employment opportunities in the current context of the financial crisis that has conquered almost all eu member states. until now and during its mandate the ecb has followed its clearly defined role, by supporting the economic confidence of the euro area and maintaining financial market stability. the ecb has managed to avoid major economic disasters within the european union by adjusting the eu area and helping the ‘problem countries’. in order to function well, properly and normally the ecb has to preserve its independence. that is why i favour better communication and coordination between the eu institutions involved in defining and implementing monetary policy within the euro area and, at the same time, independence in the ecb’s action planning. i think that an answer to all ‘crisis questions’ could be the drafting, implementation and developing of a ‘single monetary security mechanism’, an ‘eu resolution fund’ – this would, first of all, secure citizens’ existing money deposits and reduce imbalances for competiveness.
in writing. - the value of vouchers in the eu is around 52 billion euro per year. as a result, vouchers have become a significant economic factor. the highest share, 70%, is in the telecommunications sector, followed by gift vouchers and vouchers for discounts. the different taxation of vouchers in the different countries means that multinational groups in particular are faced with the problem of offsetting and double taxation. this often creates legal uncertainty for the end-user and the consequence is that the vouchers are mostly redeemed in the home country. i voted against the report because, although the rapporteur speaks of the flexibility of the countries to ensure the proper and effective implementation of the provisions envisaged, the report does not explain what the actual implementation of the provisions should be.
in writing. - a uniform vat system for vouchers at european level is useful for several reasons: it helps to avoid tax evasion and double taxation, and thus creates legal certainty for consumers and suppliers. the directive lays down a europe-wide definition of vouchers and the time and place of their taxation. the committee on budgetary control has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income and capital gains. it is regrettable, however, that the report does not, in my view, take sufficient account of the rights and needs of consumers.
in writing. this report deals with a common vat system as regards the treatment of vouchers. this has a positive impact on businesses, as it eliminates double taxation and uncertainties about tax obligations. it also allows loopholes in tax evasion to be plugged. the consumer will no longer have to face a tax obstacle to using pan-european systems. harmonised rules create more clarity and consistency across the eu. as mobile devices are becoming more common (see digital agenda strategy), a distinction needs to be made between prepaid telecommunications credit (vouchers) and non-local payment services (another type of taxation). a uniform legal framework for vouchers is essential to implement the envisaged changes to the supply-side rules for business-to-consumer transactions.
in writing. − the 2007 hague convention aims to make child support available across national borders. 50 countries have agreed to a new convention under which children will receive assistance from the authorities of the participating countries in enforcing their claims. the agreement helps children to trace the debtor, to find out his financial situation and, if necessary, to obtain support by force. this is an agreement that guarantees international state support for children in the enforcement of their legitimate rights. the hague convention on child support, agreed today, provides for the establishment of central authorities which will assist children in claiming their support; it also contains rules on the procedure for the assertion of maintenance rights abroad and their enforcement. i am voting in favour of the proposal because everything must be done to help children to achieve their rights. there must be no place for a person who is liable to pay maintenance to hide behind borders.
in writing. − the content of the report is to be welcomed as the international promotion of child and other family support is an important step towards a fair and practical maintenance law and contributes to strengthening the rights of children and families. legal networking and cooperation between eu member states should be positively assessed and further promoted.
i have to say, madam president, the fact that croatia has steadfastly followed its path to the european union despite many obstacles should really command our respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected. the good performance of conservative forces in the eu elections also seems to me to be a sign that zagreb will oppose an overpowering centralism from brussels, especially if the eu is too much involved in internal affairs. of course, further efforts are needed in the area of corruption. but it seems that there is no lack of goodwill on the part of the croats here either. as croatia seems ready to clean up its past, hopefully this will also open a new era in dealing with displaced people. the eu should take care of the rights of the danube swabians, for example. in my view, the accession of croatia should not lead to an accession mechanism for other countries, but should serve as an example for the rest of the countries in south-eastern europe, in the balkans.
i have to say, madam president, this report before us is clear evidence that croatia has done a great job. the close cooperation with the european commission and the european parliament has been successful. croatia fulfils all the conditions for accession and will do so on 1 july 2013. i look forward to this new country joining. this accession is a return to europe. it is not the end of a development, but the beginning of a new phase. the aim is simply to make the most of the opportunities of membership of the european union, i.e. to develop projects to be able to call on the appropriate cohesion funds, to set up the economy in such a way that the free market is used for exports, that investors come into the country, that unemployment is combated. i am convinced that croatia is an enrichment for the whole of the european union and i look forward to meeting my new colleagues in the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, this is not a 'blue card', it is a point of order. it's good practice in this house to keep the fractional balance in the catch-the-eye procedure. i would ask you to tell me whether only members of the european people's party have applied for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, because it is already the fifth ... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, with all due respect to your leadership, i would like to mention a few points which seem a little strange to me: firstly, i cannot understand your mixing of members in a ratio of 4:1. i did not know that the european people's party represented 80% of the members of parliament. secondly, i know that you have good advisers, and i would therefore ask that your advisers give you good advice here too, so that you take the other groups into account correctly and fairly. i suspect it was a little bit of a rigged game, and the game was obviously well worked out. i suggest you... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this morning the green member of parliament, mr cohn-bendit, made a very strange proposal to save the economy of cyprus. the island should be united - yes, that would be good - and turkey should be brought into the eu quickly, and turkish investment in cyprus would automatically follow. the fact is that the original turkish population of cyprus itself is suffering from the dramatic immigration of its east anatolian compatriots. what would be the consequences of an intensive turkish immigration on the greek part of the island? the major problems with turkish parallel cultures can best be seen in the large german or austrian cities. and the cultural and political effects of a turkish takeover are clearly seen in the almost complete destruction of christian churches and cemeteries in the turkish-occupied part of cyprus. so no more political daydreaming! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. this means that the accession negotiations are canceled! and let us take the pre-accession aid which we send to turkey in the order of almost one billion a year and invest it sustainably and wisely in cyprus.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not madam president, a few minutes ago one of your colleagues in the group of the european people's party said that turkey should be treated as any other applicant country has been treated. as a cypriot member of parliament, you have no doubt checked whether there has been a candidate country which has definitively rejected another member state of the european union, whose sovereignty it has denied, which has occupied part of the european union - namely half of the member states - and whether there has been another candidate country which has denied its own genocide, which is one of the most heinous genocides in history - namely the armenian genocide. can you give me a name of such a candidate country so that i can understand whether there should really be equal treatment for candidate countries where turkey can afford all these leeways?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, montenegro is a very beautiful country – this has been said before. it has diverse landscapes, diverse peoples, and diverse traditions. it is rich in diversity, but it also needs to work at preserving this beauty. it has the term ‘ecological country’ in its constitution, but i think it still needs to work more on, for example, renewable energy and energy efficiency, and also on tourism to preserve the beauty in its country. it needs to thrive on its diversity and to make sure that democracy and the rule of law are working in the best interests of its citizens. i and my political group welcome the fact that montenegro will be the next country to negotiate accession to the european union. it is great that croatia will be joining soon. it is very important that the next country is already lining up, and i hope others will come soon. nevertheless, there are some critical points which i would like to raise, to follow on from some of the criticism which has already been expressed. two aspects especially are of concern to me and my group. one is the independence and freedom of the media. i would like to mention a specific case in which two journalists are now facing a lawsuit filed against them by the prime minister’s sister for what they wrote about allegations of her involvement in the privatisation of telecom. this needs to be followed closely, and i think it raises concerns if things like this happen. the second is the reference to the recent presidential elections. these were strongly contested by all opposition parties and also by many ngos, and i think it is extremely important for montenegro to show its democracy and ensure that a thorough and transparent investigation into all these allegations is carried out, free from ruling political party interests. i hope, colleagues, that i will get your support on this amendment and a couple of others tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the way in which an electoral process is handled may reveal the democratic maturity of a country. but what happened in terms of electoral manipulation and breakdowns is not particularly good news for montenegro, at least if the relevant reports are to be believed. it is clear that podgorica has lost sight of the goal of eu membership, which it has pursued with such commitment for a long time. for a whole year the country was almost exclusively occupied with elections, first with the parliamentary elections, then with the presidential elections. but the necessary reforms must not be neglected any longer. i believe it is high time that work on political influence on the judiciary, media freedom and corruption was resumed. it is important that montenegro continue its efforts to achieve eu standards in the areas of justice, anti-corruption and minority protection. it is the only way to preserve its european perspective. in fact, the recent accession of croatia should not be the end of european integration in the balkans. the other post-yugoslav states should follow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this progress report raises questions which are not insurmountable in the field of justice policy or civil society, but which all seem solvable. i think that the question of serbia's relations with croatia will also develop differently when croatia becomes a full member of the european union, and that will be in the foreseeable future. we simply have to recognize that serbia and croatia are at a european fault line. this is the old european fault line along the drina between westrom and ostrom. that is why the european union has succeeded in absorbing this byzantine heritage. so why should serbia, which is an essential part of this byzantine heritage, not be able to integrate into the european union? this is a cultural task which i believe both sides can very well undertake and manage. i believe that serbia, like the whole of the byzantine heritage, is an inseparable part of the european family, unlike turkey, which is its antagonist. there is a fault line that is actually insurmountable. kosovo is a really sensitive issue. kosovo was a serb-majority country until a few decades ago, when tito was able to implement his terrible population policy against serbia. the result of this population change is the present situation. we must therefore take account of the serbian population, given its history and the fact that only a few decades ago the population was predominantly serbian.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu ambitions have apparently led to a whole new way of thinking in serbia. for example, it has apologised for the crimes of srebrenica, something that is far from being the case with the controversial candidate turkey in relation to the armenian genocide. it is a reminder of the arbitrary interpretation of the copenhagen criteria when belgrade is accused of continuing to fail to cooperate with the hague tribunal, but ankara's human rights violations are somewhat incidental. and while the unjust provisions of avnoj and the beneš decrees were not known to be an obstacle to eu accession, serbia's restitution policy must be in line with eu requirements. the christian-dominated serbia has repeatedly demonstrated its goodwill. so it is time for europe's duplicity to end. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but to do that, the eu must play the role of an impartial mediator, and i think it should give up its all too one-sided involvement in the kosovo conflict!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the republic of kosovo is the youngest country in our common europe. it declared independence some five years ago. it has achieved a lot in those years. it still shows – among its very high number of young citizens, in particular – the highest support for eu integration of all the countries in the region. since the last report a year ago, many things have changed for the better. there is now a visa dialogue with kosovo. the road map has started to be implemented by the government. last year, supervised independence ended. we have had progress in the dialogue. a year ago nobody could have imagined that, at the border between kosovo and serbia, there would be integrated border management with officials from both countries. they are supported by eulex but, still, they are there. kosovo is now participating in regional fora – in the regional cooperation council, and even in the european bank of recovery and development. these are also things that were not happening a year ago. there has also been progress, with the support of eulex, in the fight against corruption and organised crime. lots of things still need to be done. there is the issue of security for serb citizens, particularly south of the river ibar. serb monuments are being protected, and no incidents have taken place recently. full support for this country’s independence is still lacking, however. five eu member states still do not recognise kosovo, and my report calls on them again to go ahead and do so. it is simply not acceptable that this country and its government cannot participate in europol and interpol, which are fighting against corruption and organised crime. citizens of the country are not allowed to participate in sports and cultural events. i would like to thank high representative cathy ashton for the efforts she has made for this dialogue. i also have conflicting messages. i still hope, being an optimist, that there will be a deal tonight or tomorrow, and that this will open the way for stabilisation and association agreement (saa) negotiations with kosovo and accession date negotiations with serbia. these are interconnected. we want to see both countries on their way to the european union. this normalisation is essential for citizens in both countries and for the economic benefit of everybody. finally, i would like to call on my colleagues here to support an amendment that three groups have tabled tomorrow about the way kosovo is referred to, meaning without an asterisk, without a footnote, like any other country in this world. just kosovo, europe’s youngest country and one that is on its way to european union membership.
blue-card question. – i am guessing that you are from the uk independence party. i am just wondering, if you talk about the independence of your country, why are you against the independence of kosovo?
the commission has already done so. i would like to inform the european parliament that next week, from monday to wednesday, the sixth barents parliamentary conference will be held in harstad, norway. i am taking part in the debate here because i can represent the house there. i shall table parliament's amendments to the final resolution on the issues raised here today, in particular the call for the european union to be granted observer status at the arctic council in kiruna in may. i am told that we are facing a blockade from canada and russia, and i ask everyone here to use all contacts and opportunities to ensure that a positive vote is still possible in may. we already have three full members, iceland as a candidate and six observers. we will use the parliamentary conference next week to discuss all these issues and develop our common strategy. i would also ask the commission to cooperate closely and to exchange views.
i have to say, madam president, as you know, the european citizens' initiative has now been in force for one year. the aim of the directive was to give citizens in the european union the opportunity to participate in decision-making and legislation. at the same time, they wanted to demonstrate openness, transparency and closeness to the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many initiators complain of bureaucratic and technical obstacles and high or excessively high costs. for example, the spokesman for global 2000 austria writes to me that one year after the start of preparations for the citizens' initiative 'my voice against nuclear energy', the efforts are being suspended again because of insufficient conditions. the commission is putting up bureaucratic, technical and costly obstacles to easy access, the letter said. it can't be like this! we need, of course, a simple, user-friendly approach to ensure the original objective of the citizens' initiative, namely a high level of citizen participation. i have already pointed out in the introduction that it is dangerous to suggest or to pretend to the citizen that he has a say in the matter, when in fact he does not have one. this only increases the rejection and scepticism towards the eu. in order to give the citizens' initiative more credibility, it will be useful to consider whether successful citizens' initiatives should not and must not consistently result in automatic action by the commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a year of european citizens' initiatives is a time to congratulate, above all, the many european citizens who have committed themselves across europe to this first transnational instrument of direct democracy and have founded 14 initiatives so far. i am also pleased as an austrian that four of them have been carried out with our participation. i would also like to congratulate the responsible and proactive commission departments, which not only were at the beginning of this project, but also actively supported the instrument recently when it was offered to run the online collection systems on their own servers. the year of the citizens' initiative also means a kind of critical balance sheet and, of course, the demand for appropriate improvements and changes. the main problem of this young instrument in europe is, of course, the lack of awareness. i want to make this a task for all of us. it is not only the commission's task, but also that of the european member states, whose active involvement i have so far greatly missed. another source of discontent is the collection of online signatures. it has been referred to several times. there are technical hurdles, there are bureaucratic hurdles. i think one idea that's worth pursuing is to offer a ready-made, approved software package that's made available to all the initiators. just yesterday i received five e-mails - madam commissioner, you are also on the distributor - in which citizens' groups asked for 12 months to collect signatures, starting from the date of registration. i think this is a very fair, practical proposal because it really does allow a net 12 months of work. i think the beginning of the 12-month countdown is only given from the beginning of the certification project. but let me also address a subject which concerns me personally: i believe that in this first year of the citizens' initiative it is also legitimate to question certain activities. i am referring to an initiative that was the first to cross the one million signatures threshold on water. it is not by chance that the issue of water has been very well campaigned on by some populist forces. there was talk of a forced privatisation of water planned by the eu. it turned out to be wrong. now, in the course of this campaign process, it has to be stated that the main operators of this initiative - and this is largely the european trade union movement - were certainly not intended as addressees for the european citizens' initiative. the european trade union movement is an institutional political movement, not a citizens' initiative or a citizens' group. i think it is fair that the european trade union movement should abandon this attitude in future and that other established european political institutions should not alienate or abuse an instrument of direct democracy. i do not want to live in a europe without trade unions. i want that clear. but the point here is not to make civil rights into institutional rights. let us all in the commission and here in parliament be proud of the european citizens' initiative, but let us work hard to optimise and improve and perfect it!
the commission has already done so. i too welcome this new instrument of active and direct participation by the citizens. as we heard today, of course, there are still a lot of childhood diseases that we have to work on. i also thank the commission for the flexibility it has shown. we must, however, look at this in a more holistic way, particularly at the end of this debate. that is why i am pleased that groups of visitors are here today, even if the problem is not directly theirs. but we must also increase the possibility of citizen participation in parliament. that means we need the possibility of bringing more groups into parliament. we need more opportunities for student visits, especially for students. i am glad that the parliamentarium, for example, is free to visit. i am very concerned about the possibilities of consultation, public hearings and the possibility of a citizens' initiative, because i believe that these instruments are still being used far too little. in conclusion, i would point out that the daily work of our members in this parliament is such that we spend far too little time with the citizens. i am asking you to reconsider this so that personal contact is possible. i see myself as a representative of my constituents, as a representative of the citizens of europe.
one year after the launch of the european citizens' initiative, i once again support this successful political instrument. it is a direct democratic instrument that gives eu citizens the opportunity to participate in political life. the initiative also aims to increase the public's identification with the eu. in addition, we members of the european parliament are now being informed by citizens about problems which concern them in their daily lives or directly affect them. this is why i support the continued promotion of this initiative and i am committed to exploring and implementing possible improvements, such as the creation of a more user-friendly platform.
i have to say, madam president, macroeconomic imbalances may well have played a role in the financial and debt crisis. but the crisis has taught us a painful lesson: economic growth and success cannot be dictated. this has not worked with the stability pact or on the orders of the troika. i think that an eu economic government will also fail miserably in this. there is no universal recipe for the crisis. the conditions vary too much from country to country. it is clear that each member state has to deal with its own country-specific challenges in its own way. it is high time that the eu finally recognised the diversity of its member states as a strength and an opportunity, rather than relying on equalization and centralism. the development towards a debt transfer union is in itself worrying enough. the fact that the eu's economic governance has even thought of sanctioning current account surpluses shows just how much of a brainchild this european idea of a snapshot is, as i like to call it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make the following counter-proposal to mr salafranca: perhaps we can agree to hold the debate today but not to vote on a resolution. that means that we are holding the debate because it is a topical matter, but in order not to give the wrong signal, we are postponing the vote on a resolution until the next partsession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group has withdrawn amendments nos 10 and 5. they concern the representation of the turkish cypriot population. i would like to explain why i am doing this very briefly. we had a long discussion yesterday in the group of the european people's party and we are unanimous in our view that a solution must be found so that in the future, especially perhaps after the elections next year, the turkish cypriot population, which is a population of the european union, will also be represented in this house by observers in whatever form. we shall therefore also make a request to the conference of presidents that the president of this house should try to find an appropriate solution with the newly elected president of cyprus. regardless of how the vote today turns out, i just wanted to inform you that this is the path we are going to propose and that i will put forward a proposal in the conference of presidents that president schulz try to find a way with the new president of cyprus for the next elections.
mr president, i would like to move an oral amendment in agreement with the rapporteur, whom i would like to thank for that, and i would like to make it more precise. it will now read as follows: ‘calls on the montenegrin parliament to adopt a code of conduct for the prevention of conflict of interest, and to publish information on financial interests of members’.
mr president, i would like to do what jelko kacin tried previously for serbia. i would like to move that this version be altered because here too it says, ‘notes with regret that the eighth round of the high level belgrade-pristina dialogue has ended without a comprehensive agreement …’. it was the ninth round last night until late at night. so i would like to move that we all agree that we put ‘ninth’ instead of ‘eighth’ and – because this is an adjustment to reality – that we do the same thing in the report on serbia as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this agreement today, but i also voted for us to vote on this agreement today. i am glad that the delaying tactic which certain political groups in this house seem to want to use against ukraine has not been adopted today. the visa agreements are not a suitable means of exerting pressure on other governments; they only affect the citizens of the countries concerned. i am therefore pleased and happy that this facilitation agreement for the ukrainian citizens was adopted today.
in writing. − citizens of ukraine are required to have a visa to enter the eu. on 8 april this year, ukrainian president viktor yanukovych signed a new law that facilitates the entry of eu citizens into ukraine. in return, the eu will facilitate the entry agreement with ukraine. the current visa facilitation agreement has been in force since 2008 and is now to be supplemented by further facilitations. these include the requirements for the purpose of entry documents, the provisions on the validity of multiple-entry visas, the revision of the system of the fee for urgent applications and the exemption from the visa requirement for holders of biometric service passports. i voted against the report because in the long term, visa facilitation for ukrainian citizens is likely to lead to complete visa-free travel. this could further lead to more and more ukrainian citizens entering the country not for purely tourist or professional purposes, but increasingly being used for illegal work as cheap labour.
in writing. − on 8 april 2013, ukrainian president viktor yanukovych signed a new law that facilitates the entry of eu citizens into ukraine. in return, the eu is now looking to relax the entry agreement for ukrainian citizens: the existing visa facilitation agreement is to be supplemented by further facilitations, such as the documents required to confirm the purpose of entry, the rules on the validity of multiple visas, the revision of the system of fees for urgent applications or the exemption from the visa requirement for holders of a biometric service passport. i am critical of the report and voted against it because there is a danger that liberalisation will be exploited and abused to gain a foothold in the eu as cheap black labour.
in writing. the rapporteur has dealt with the respective facilities for citizens of the union and citizens of the contracting parties. it focuses on intercultural contacts between eu and non-eu citizens, which effectively promotes the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the aim is to eliminate fees and simplify requirements for the population. the protection of public security is the subject of a union safeguard measure, i.e. a possible suspension in the event of abuse, for example in the case of the asylum system. this safeguard measure constitutes a strong reservation on the part of the union, without which such an agreement would be unthinkable. in view of these advantages, the agreement should be approved, provided that it is applied in a non-abusive manner.
in writing. the eu has been discussing the issue of visa requirements for citizens of the republic of moldova for several years. there was also talk for a short time of visa exemption. the current agreement is now to be extended to make it easier for moldovan citizens to enter the eu. i voted against the report because i see a problem in the proposal to increase the length of stay from 90 to 180 days. the eu has also agreed to extend the visa exemption to larger groups of persons, including close relatives of moldovan nationals residing in the eu. this raises concerns, as already confirmed by eurostat, that there could be a further increase in the number of moldovans illegally residing in the eu. the european university institute centre for migration policy also confirmed in the report that there will be an increase and that there could be more illegal employment by moldovan nationals.
in writing. the commission is seeking to make it easier for moldovan citizens to enter the eu through visa liberalisation. i voted against the report because i see a problem in increasing the length of stay from 90 to 180 days as proposed in the proposal. the eu is also considering extending visa exemptions to larger groups of people, including close relatives of moldovan nationals residing in the eu. the report also contains other vague terms that can be interpreted very broadly, such as 'representatives of civil society', who are also to be exempted from the visa requirement. even eurostat confirmed fears that there could be a further increase in the number of moldovans living illegally in the eu. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − the impact of the financial and economic crisis on human, political and social rights should be emphasised; while financial measures are at the heart of the crisis management, it must not be forgotten or underestimated that these rights are the basis of any democracy. the european union is a community which protects and respects the rights of individuals, even in the most difficult of times; the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. − demographic statistics are essential as the basis for the european system of accounts. the updating and cleaning of data is important for their preparation. in view of the different trends, such as rural migration, which is different in each member state, it may be interesting to compare trends not only at national but also at regional level. the aim should be to improve the comparability of statistical data at eu level. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - it makes sense to compare demographic statistics not only at national level but also at regional level. the comparability of statistical data at european level should also be improved. i do not think it is appropriate, however, and i do not think it is appropriate, in the light of the principle of subsidiarity, to impose binding rules on the regions.
in writing. the hong kong convention is the first international agreement on shipwrecks. in reality, however, it still appears that most eu-flagged vessels are scrapped in countries such as india, pakistan and bangladesh. it can be said that the hong kong convention will not be fully implemented until 2020 de facto. according to this report, because of the diversity of hazardous substances on board a ship, any ship leaving the eu for scrapping is considered hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally scrapped in oecd countries. however, this provision is almost systematically circumvented. according to the eu impact assessment, over 90% of eu-flagged vessels were scrapped outside the oecd in 2009. this has serious consequences for both people and the environment in south-east asian countries. i abstained because the report clearly shows that there are still many discrepancies and contradictions between the hong kong convention and the basel convention, which i believe should be eliminated immediately. the legal situation as it stands leaves too much room for manoeuvre for ship owners which must be closed immediately.
in writing. - i abstained from voting, particularly as there are still a number of unresolved discrepancies and contradictions between the hong kong convention and the basel convention which should be clarified in advance. the current legal situation is unclear and leaves too many loopholes for ship owners which still need to be closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today is one of the final acts for the accession of croatia. now, please note how long you have been holding croatia up. croatia has not occupied part of the territory of a member state, as turkey is doing in cyprus. croatia has never refused to recognise any member state of the european union. croatia has consistently made efforts to meet the requirements of the european union, although the effort has not always been driven by the desired success, but the effort has been genuine. but croatia has been held up for so long. i am glad that this resolution is now entering the final phase. i would like to congratulate all the newly elected members of parliament, who have been elected by the croatian people to this parliament. i would like to point out, however, that the election results are again a signal of the refusal of the population in these countries to reject the european union: 21% turnout is a clear signal, a vote with your feet, that you obviously do not like this development of the union. even in a new member country like croatia. this should be recognized as a signal, please.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted against this report, simply because turkey cannot join. in austria, a referendum will be necessary to do this. the government has promised it. 80% of the austrian population are stably against turkey's accession. i would like to see the outcome of the ratification procedure. no one can - and this has already been said by mr pieper of the epp - finance this accession. no one can accept that anyone can be a candidate for membership who rejects a member of this union, who still has a part of the union's territory under military occupation and who does not even dream of undertaking the military evacuation of this territory. so it is fair to say to turkey that it will not become a member of the european union because it is not part of europe. but it is between europe and the middle east and therefore has a privileged partnership in view, but nothing else! a privileged partnership at the most! this is a matter of honesty, and also of dealing with the turkish people and the turkish government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the recent verdict against the pianist fazıl say shows once again how foreign to turkey are freedom of religion and expression. turkey is still more like a third world country than a european country in terms of freedom of expression and press. at best, there are alibis admitted to the kurds. on important issues such as the denial of the armenian genocide or the recognition of cyprus, erdoğan does not want to compromise a millimeter. it's high time we had a talk about a privileged partnership. i therefore rejected the motion for a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this progress report because it first of all reflects the great efforts which the serbs have already made in the field of justice policy, particularly in the fight against corruption, but also in civil society, i do not need to repeat that. i am convinced that serbia is part of the european family. it is a prominent part of the byzantine heritage of europe. sooner or later, serbia must also become part of the european family within the framework of the european union. serbia could become a wonderful example of a model minority policy. minorities are plentiful. the hungarian minority was discussed yesterday. of course, serbia still has a lot to do here, including in the romanian and bulgarian villages. but it should be done in the sense that the serbs in kosovo are treated equally. we cannot impose a minority policy on serbia and at the same time tell the serbs to forget about the serb minorities in other countries, especially in kosovo. i can't do that. i would like to ask you once again to treat serbia with the appropriate sensitivity and tact, particularly in the case of kosovo, because kosovo is the sacred soil of the serbs. we should respect that!
in writing. - the christian-dominated serbia has repeatedly demonstrated its goodwill. of course, we must not repeat the mistakes of the hasty accession of bulgaria and romania. all the criteria for accession must be met without any doubt, but serbia is a european country and should join the union. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. therefore, these must be resolved before accession. the eu must, however, play the role of impartial mediator. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you, madam president. you have to be consistent. but your remarks, and especially your mention of norway, have brought munich 1972 to my mind. it was called "the games must go on" for good reason. is it not that by not voting now we are actually playing into the hands of this terror, because we are neglecting an important issue around the death penalty, due process and instead giving in to it?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is about the binding targets. do you think that these binding targets should be achieved through incentives, that you should set incentives to achieve the targets, that national governments should think about how to set incentives to achieve the targets? or do you want to achieve these objectives by means of penalties which would of course severely reduce the international competitiveness of firms? how do you think that's going to affect prices?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr herbert reul and the commissioner for his analysis. it is right that when we look at the three 2020 targets now, we need new targets for the future if we are to achieve our 2050 target of 80 to 95 percent co2 reduction. the most cost-effective solutions should be given priority here. that's why we should continue these three lines. the energy sector will be the main burden, and it is here that the major changes will take place. it is therefore important to maintain these three objectives, because we do not have cost neutrality in the various energy sources at present. that is why there can be no technological neutrality. we need to think long-term here. so there are different stories, like this basic burden, that are brought up again and again. the fact is that renewable energy in particular is already very diverse and that there are various compensatory mechanisms. it is therefore advisable for europe to consider support schemes also on a state-by-state basis: what are the priorities here and where can individual states score? there are, as i said, very big differences. the much-requested uniform european system of subsidies would also be inadequate here. the solution lies in the diversity of support systems, which should of course be coordinated at european level, and also in the common network, which is certainly essential.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make three points: there is no denying that renewable energy is a booster for the economy and the trend is growing. we are creating sustainable jobs, we are supporting the sme sector and we can give a new perspective to young people who are particularly interested in new technologies. on the other hand, there is also training, education and training capacity for the interested workers. in any case, i would like to say that the expansion which is changing and will change agriculture must involve the citizens. i would remind you of the chapter on the 380 kv lines in salzburg, where the people feel very much let down, i should like to say. without this cooperation and, in my view, unconditional compliance with existing environmental legislation, we shall not get very far in the short and long term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one will seriously doubt the benefits of using renewable energy sources, but the measures and their consequences will be the ones with which the eu is making an impact. the introduction of the right incentives is a tried and tested method, but continuity and reliability are equally important. but it is here that political weaknesses are particularly apparent. the constant improvements and the desire to change the rules of the game are unsettling the industry. energy must also remain affordable, both for citizens and for industry. industry in particular has to compete with world prices and cannot simply pass on the higher costs of production to consumers. the following principles are therefore essential: no zigzagging in energy policy, laying down and observing the rules of the game, no further expansion of taxation. there are already member states where some 50% of the final price is paid or given to the state. research and development do not do much, but little, and do it well and properly. and if subsidies, then in a smart, time-degrading way, so that competitiveness is maintained and a corresponding level is achieved on the world market.
in writing. renewable energy is making an important contribution to a more independent and low-emission energy supply in europe. the objective must therefore be to increase this proportion progressively. europe is a pioneer in the development of renewable energy technologies, which should be further developed. the gradual shift to renewable energy sources must, however, be carried out in a way that does not affect the competitiveness of european industry and businesses. international agreements should be concluded which also commit the usa, china and other industrialized countries to increase the use of renewable energy. the principle is that energy which is not consumed in europe, for example in the form of gas or oil, is consumed elsewhere. the changeover must be financially viable for the many small and medium-sized enterprises. the right of each member state to choose its own energy sources must not lead to eu countries pushing for nuclear power and selling cheap nuclear power to countries with high shares of expensive renewable energy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we're here to discuss the safety of deep-sea drilling. we have, of course, also had in mind the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico. we must avoid this, so that it does not happen in european waters. the legal committee's opinion focused on the legal and financial responsibilities arising from a possible accident, which should be designed in such a way that these accidents do not occur as a result of precaution. this was achieved in the legal affairs committee, but unfortunately it was largely renegotiated by the member states. we could have had a good regulation which avoids damage, which also creates an independent control to induce such member states to look more closely at what their respective oil industries are doing. unfortunately, we have had to slacken off halfway through because the member states - and three of them are the ones who drill these wells themselves - have blocked everything that a real definition of responsibility would have achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the deeper the drilling, the greater the danger. we all know that. because the oil-gas mixture is extremely hot and the pressure is increasing, it makes a huge difference whether you drill 2,000 or 7,000 meters below sea level. and while the u.s. has stopped drilling for oil in the deep sea for a while, the offshore boom in other parts of the world is just getting started. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. accidents - whether tanker accidents or sinking oil platforms - are more spectacular, with monstrous oil carpets that show off oil pollution, but they are not responsible for the bulk of oil pollution. the normal operation of offshore installations and shipping is sufficient. so when we talk about the safety of offshore oil production sites, we should also be thinking about reducing the environmental impact of the normal operation of oil production and production facilities. what is the use of the best international guidelines, standards and practices if they are not followed? so if we want to increase the safety of offshore installations, we have to talk about control and think about it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is the nature of things that those member states which form the external borders of the eu suffer particularly from the influx of asylum seekers. because under dublin ii, an asylum application must be processed where the entry was caused or not prevented. i understand that countries like greece have problems dealing with this administrative burden. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. on the other hand, large-scale relocations are not useful, especially when criteria such as gdp are used here. because it's obvious where this is going. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement. it would therefore be a good idea to make transit countries such as morocco, tunisia and turkey safe third countries and to make development aid or economic agreements conditional on the respect of readmission agreements.
i have to say, madam president, seven western balkan countries are candidates for accession, and they have all worked very differently hard to pass the necessary legislation on women's rights and gender equality. but the actual implementation of these rights, which are intended to be exercised, requires in some cases a number of steps. these countries have, as i have said, come a long way in their journey. in some cases, a country is asked to involve women more in the political decision-making process, or else it must be reminded of the need for equality. i would like to say to the honourable member that it is a very balanced and very objective report. what i particularly liked is that the steps taken are really clearly highlighted. i therefore appeal to these countries to continue to follow their aspirations and efforts.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for a really good report. as my colleague marije cornelissen has said, some countries have already reacted to the criticism contained in the report and acted on it. i think it is extremely important to focus on the role of women in the western balkan countries – as everywhere else, but at this moment in the western balkan countries – because it is so important, after the wars there in the 1990s and up till 13 years ago, to focus also on the importance of the empowerment of women. issues like war rape are still not on the table in many countries, and war criminals, whatever their ethnic origin, have not been brought to justice. women who were raped in the wars have not had their justice yet. this is something that this report focuses on, and i think it is extremely important that the justice system also focuses on that and on the political participation of women. one country, kosovo, has one third of women by law. all the others should have this as well and should put it into practice, not just on paper.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs weber. i would like to highlight one issue, and that is the issue of net neutrality. the word net neutrality appears only once in the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's cultural policy is not disrupted. the principle of net neutrality is mentioned or confirmed in one sentence. in your report itself, there is no mention of net neutrality. and i think that's very, very unfortunate. why would it matter? we live in a digital society. not only are computers connected, but in the future, all devices, all artifacts will be connected and communicating with each other. books, media are increasingly being digitized. newspapers in the traditional sense will be no more. the question of net neutrality, the question of whether all data is really equal, is therefore also a crucial question as regards freedom of the media, as regards the right to freedom of information and as regards the right to freedom of expression. and that is why it would be very important that we actually enshrine and anchor this principle of net neutrality at european level.
as a senior representative and a generation politician in this parliament, i congratulate our rapporteur on this report, the agenda for the future of european pension systems. the direction is with the clear priority for the first pillar and an additional second pillar. the same applies to the vehement call for reforms in the member states, the abolition of early retirement, the introduction of incentives to work longer hours, etc. but demands remain unfulfilled in the spirit of europe's leading social model, the best in the world. we must be more ambitious there. there is no mandatory participation of the young and older generations in the form of a council for the elderly and a council for youth in europe. the concept of 'adequate pensions' is too small. he's getting too close to the poverty line, and that's a matter for welfare, not the pension system. it is about safeguarding the acquired standard of living and a self-determined, fulfilled life in old age. the retirement age should be defined by experts. politics must not be subject to populism. a new second stage of this agenda is necessary, and we owe it to all generations, especially the young ones who come after us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know that the council will have to deal with two very specific questions. i think that the council must not ignore the crisis which is so evident in europe at the moment. we have record unemployment, especially among young people. the young are now referred to as the 'generation of the intern' or the 'generation of old age poverty'. the public debt, which we want to combat with austerity, has also increased. the distribution of income and wealth is becoming more unequal. a lot of people feel demoted from the middle class, according to polls. in france, they now speak of a social descenseur. even homelessness and suicide rates are on the rise, as the statistics show. and spending on health, education and training is being cut dramatically in some cases. more and more people express in surveys their fear that they will not be well cared for in old age and that the children will have a bad future. and more and more citizens are disillusioned with the eu. europe is seen as part of the problem, not part of the solution. we cannot simply accept this as europe is today! recently, someone in the guardian said, "recession hurts, but austerity kills". but that's what we do. austerity is killing jobs, it is killing social justice, it is killing support for the european union. we keep forgetting what john maynard keynes said: the boom, not the crisis, is the right time for austerity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the big risk is - and i'm going to come to investments - that even if we get growth, we get growth without employment, as we see in the united states today. that's the challenge, that the growth that we hope to get back is going to be associated with more employment. i would also like to address the irish presidency directly in this context. i would like to say with the late prime minister margaret thatcher: we want our money back, but not in the sense that margaret thatcher meant. we want the money back which is in tax havens, mr farage and mr cameron. that is the money we want back. it is unacceptable that eur 1 000 billion every day, every year that means eur 2 000 per citizen is not invested in europe but goes to tax havens and tax evasion. this is unacceptable. is it not a shame - i say this to the irish presidency - that even in the ecofin council it has been said that we have to ask the international consortium of investigative journalists to supply us with the names and details of eu citizens in offshore leaks? this is the obligation of the countries and governments of europe. we need investigative journalists to get the money back, and that's very sad. (applause) citizens feel that these journalists have more power or perhaps more willingness to fight tax evasion than the public authorities, and that is not acceptable. i must say that in this case the commission was quite helpful because they took up the challenge some time ago, and we have to support them. i therefore ask the irish presidency and the council to listen very carefully and to read parliament's reports very carefully, especially mojca kleva kekuš's report, which states very clearly what has to be done, including the blacklisting of tax havens. we have to penalize all those who do business with this kind of tax haven. this means that luxembourg and austria finally have to agree to the full package in the fight against tax evasion, including of course automatic data exchange. so this means that mr cameron should not only tell the islands to put their houses in order, but he has to do his job as well. he knows perfectly well what apple and others are doing or not doing. they do business but do not pay taxes where they do business. so we have to fight against tax evasion. so this concerns energy. again, the council will be talking about energy, but this parliament has been talking to the formal energy community for years already. the commission president is right: we have to invest publicly and privately in order to make the energy market and the energy community workable. i'm a bit more cautious about the shale gas initiative. whatever you do, consider the environmental question, because we are much more concerned about the environmental damage it could cause. we come back to the question of investment. yes, we need investment, especially for the younger generation. i know it is not the council's top priority, but many of the current discussions about europe relate to youth unemployment and investment against youth unemployment, which may include energy policy. if mrs von der leyen is now turning around and doing something positive about youth unemployment in europe, this is a good thing because, unfortunately, the german government has very often, as with the banking union, tended to put a foot on the brake instead of the accelerator. but youth unemployment cannot be accepted as it is today in such numbers. the money is here, and it has to come from tax evasion and the tax havens. this is the policy we have to adopt. i therefore think there are two major tests for the council and therefore for the irish presidency. can we bring forward a budget which really fights youth unemployment? are you ready for i think the technical term is frontloading to start at the end of the year, in 2014, with enough money to fight youth unemployment? eur 6 billion for seven years is not enough. this is peanuts for the problem we have to fight, and therefore we need more money. we also need more flexibility in the budget, and in the coming budget negotiations it is very important for the irish presidency to go forward in that direction. the second test, of course, is whether we really have the courage and the willingness to fight tax evasion and tax havens. we need strong action and not just declarations. we need action to go forward - including the necessary directives, of course - because i do not like the idea that we would once again have to call the young people of today the generation of unemployment, the generation of part-time workers and the generation of poverty in old age. the money is here. let us use it to fight youth unemployment. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it must be a primary objective of the union to crack down on tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens. germany, the eu's largest net contributor, is missing out on some eur 400 billion in tax revenues each year, austria on a ratio of 1:10 about eur 40 billion. this money, which is passed through the treasury, is of course not available for the normal functions of the state. where do you get the money? you get it from the good taxpayer, the little man. the resulting departures and losses are offset by higher taxes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they park their money in tax havens like the cayman islands, the channel islands, and they have the ability, through skilled tax advisors, box designs, to find loopholes and evade taxation. i can also imagine the extension of the liability of the assistants, which would also include the banks, advisers and tax advisers who actively promote and support tax evasion. this means that transparency and consistency are needed to prevent and prosecute tax fraud, but banking secrecy must be safeguarded for small domestic investors. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for this wonderful talk. i believe that the honourable member is taking the same approach as mr steinbrück against a country like austria, which has always provided legal aid in the event of clear requests and clear suspicions of wrongdoing. that german charm of threatening cavalry has obviously moved into this house as well. i reject this on behalf of my country. austria will certainly try to be a good partner for europe. it's mutual, though. that means you have to look at the big picture. and if there is a comprehensive solution for europe, austria will certainly not be in line to play its part. i strongly reject allegations, unqualified statements of this kind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. firstly, i would like to join the criticism that this summit, with its two important topics, is too short and too poorly prepared. a summit without results is one summit too many! the crucial point is that we make it clear: regulations by which individual countries try to extract tax money from other countries or even facilitate tax evasion are state-organized fraud. this is unsolidarist, un-european and not of our time. the whole community must therefore take action to combat this situation. we also see clearly that unanimity on tax matters relevant to the internal market leads to delays and offers opportunities for blockages. i therefore expect the summit to agree voluntarily to move from unanimity to community law in the fight against tax havens and to eliminate unanimity on tax matters relevant to the internal market. thirdly, we have a proposal from the commission to reform the money laundering directive, which will lead to more transparency. let us put this proposal into practice. we have an action plan from the commission to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. let's make it happen together! we have a proposal to extend the scope of the 2008 interest taxation directive. let's close it! it's about doing the things we know are right and necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. it is necessary that the fight against tax havens should now finally be brought to a head. it was talked about as early as 2008, and not done enough. it's good that there will be blacklists now. it's good that things like dividends and other assets have to be included. it is also good that the austrian chancellor will actually agree tomorrow that the automatic transfer of information will take place now. i hope that the austrian finance minister will finally give the go-ahead and not wait until there are eu agreements with other tax havens on the european continent such as liechtenstein or switzerland. it is necessary. eur 1 trillion a year, that's just way too much money being wasted here on investments in youth unemployment, in education and much more. a word about energy: low carbon energy that means nuclear power included. the greens and the people of europe have said no to this very clear ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the report is clear: it is scandalous and no longer acceptable that wealthy people and large multinational corporations are using tax avoidance and tax avoidance as tricks! every year, €1 trillion is lost to the eu budget through tax evasion - that's €2,000 per eu citizen! the commission's proposal to include tax crimes in the money laundering directive as a precursor to money laundering is more than welcome. tax evaders must be punished accordingly. the longstanding demand of my group to agree on a common consolidated corporate tax base must also be addressed as soon as possible. it's high time for tax justice! tax fraud has serious social consequences and is at the expense of honest taxpayers! our primary objective should be a pan-european, uniform solution, preferably a global one.
in writing. – let me start with a few numbers: eur 1 trillion per year is lost in revenue; eur 24 trillion in assets is hidden in offshore tax havens. an estimated eur 1 billion of public money is lost because of tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union, which actually results in eur 2 000 of costs that are placed on the individual citizen’s shoulders. this actually means that the amount of lost tax money is four times more than the costs for education in the european union! i suggest that we all think clearly about how we proceed with our tax systems: by simplifying them and reducing the tax rates in some member states, as a first step, we can certainly make tax evasion ‘less attractive’. there are though many more ways and steps necessary. however, immediate action is needed. therefore, i also urgently ask the member states to do everything possible to at least reduce this tax gap by 50 % by 2020. all member states of the european union must be united in the fight against tax havens.
in writing. −an agreement on air transport was concluded between the eu and sri lanka as early as 2011. this is intended to provide a framework for the 15 bilateral aviation agreements between individual eu member states and sri lanka. bilateral air transport agreements facilitate the solution of common problems, for example in the fields of safety and environmental protection. the mutual recognition of standards and safety controls does not always go smoothly despite the agreements. there is still room for improvement in this area. i voted in that spirit.
in writing. the rapporteur has pointed out that existing bilateral agreements still contain inconsistencies with european union legislation. the case in point concerns (as the ecj has found) unlawful designation clauses in aviation agreements concluded between the european union, its member states and third countries. in order to be able to comply with the objectives of the union, or to comply with article 49 tfeu, which guarantees freedom of establishment, and thus to eliminate all existing discrimination, this report should be approved.
in writing. − some say that improved cooperation between the european union and the european air traffic control organisation, eurocontrol, an intergovernmental organisation with 39 european members, which plays a key role in traffic management, would lead to faster inter-european communication. in addition, some processes could be carried out more effectively. however, this would be another step towards european centralisation and the unification of national interests. i have no objection to the amendments tabled by mr glinne, mr de gucht and mr von wogau.
in writing. − this report looks at the enhanced cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol, the european organisation for aviation safety. the aim is to strengthen cooperation. this agreement will contribute to the implementation of the single european sky and should therefore be approved.
in writing. − in this report, the rapporteur welcomes the progress made in modernising, particularly in the areas of finance, data protection and digitalisation. the protection of personal data is of particular importance, since the provisions relating to this field still need to be clarified in order to take account of the changing requirements of the modern world.
in writing. − this report was about the early postponement of the 2014 european parliament elections. this was prompted by the fact that the original estimated date falls on the weekend of pentecost, and thus an even lower turnout than in the last election was to be feared. it is not against the new date in may, which is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - the aim is to bring forward the eighth elections to the european parliament, i.e. to the beginning of may, in order to avoid the period of the pentecost weekend. in this respect, the possibility of a reduced turnout should be avoided and this project should therefore be approved and terminated as soon as possible.
in writing. - there was an obvious call for harmonised legislation on takeover bids in europe. the fact that the coincidence of the euro, debt or financial crisis and the deadline for transposition of the directive in question has limited the data available is not a satisfactory situation. i am not convinced that further harmonization measures, as briefly mentioned in this report, are necessary. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, as shadow rapporteur in the legal affairs committee, i was able to improve the draft on some points of importance to workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the first principle, however, must be to preserve jobs and to create good jobs. the target company should act in a sustainable and long-term manner in the interests of the european economy as a whole and in particular in the interests of its employees and stakeholders. i am also less concerned about the companies themselves when it comes to corporate takeovers - often large takeovers that generate large profits, so-called 'mega buy-outs'. the protection of the 'small' workers is of particular importance. i was able to negotiate a point in the report which calls on the commission to step up dialogue with workers when urgent problems arise. it also notes that further consideration should be given to how to further support and strengthen workers' rights, in compliance with directive 2001/23/ec and directive 2002/14/ec (directive establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers).
in writing. − harmonised legislation on takeover bids in europe is still needed. the economic situation of recent years makes it difficult, if not impossible, to make a final assessment of the application. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. more meaningful data are needed on whether the directive needs to be amended and what precise steps need to be taken in relation to harmonisation. an effective system of sanctions and controls is required to prevent violations of workers' rights.
in writing. − the continuing decline of traditional industries means that many regions in the european union need support to cope with the conversion and restructuring of their former industrial areas. the commission is therefore proposing to increase the use of the cohesion fund. of course, the individual regions need financial support. however, i think it would be more sensible - particularly in view of the billions of eu grants that end up in the dark channels and in the black boxes every year - to regulate such grants at national level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. finally, it is the same countries which are repeatedly singled out in the court of auditors' report for fraud and for which the recovery of funds wrongly paid does not work properly. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. − european industry has enormous potential for growth, innovation and employment. although the share of the industrial sector in gdp has declined in recent years, it still stands at 16%. this is why it is important to start locally, support existing industrial areas and promote reindustrialisation through eu funds. i voted for this report because it emphasizes an integrated approach. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide aid to the countries of central and eastern europe in the form of loans for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. the importance of innovation and the cultural and creative industries in a reindustrialisation process is also discussed. i know from my own experience that the safeguarding of industrial jobs and the promotion of the creative economy at the same time is to the benefit of all, as exemplified by the city of linz.
in writing. − this report deals with regional strategies for industrial areas in the eu. industry is one of the most important factors for the eu's competitiveness and has always been important for creating jobs and promoting growth and innovation. the eu industrial sector has weakened over the last 50 years (current share 16%) and the development of regional strategies for former industrial areas is necessary. sustainable regeneration of former industrial regions is very costly, so eu public cohesion policy funds must play an important role. the aim is to highlight the characteristics of the regions which are common to all former industrial regions and to identify possible solutions.
in writing. - it makes a huge difference whether you are drilling 2,000 metres below sea level or 7,000 metres below. you're ready to go deeper and deeper. if we want to increase the safety of offshore installations, we also need to think about control. and while we are talking about the safety of offshore oil production sites, we should also be thinking about reducing the environmental impact of the normal operation of oil production and production facilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution. the present report contains good approaches to this problem, although not to a sufficient degree. i have adjusted my voting behaviour to this effect.
in writing. − as renewable energies make an important contribution to a more independent and low-emission energy supply in europe, their share needs to be progressively increased. the european leadership in the development of renewable energy technologies should be further developed. however, europe's competitiveness should not be put at a disadvantage. international agreements should be concluded which also commit the usa, china and other industrialized countries to increase the use of renewable energy. the energy transition must also be financially viable for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, in particular nuclear power stations, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources. i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. - the rapporteur has dealt with the complex issue of the combination of renewable energy sources and the european internal market in a very nuanced way. it clearly identifies the benefits, explains the challenges and sets ambitious targets for the integration of renewable energy in the internal market. in addition to the positive effects of these objectives, the rapporteur has also taken account of the interests of other areas: for example, it emphasizes food security in parallel with the use of biomass as an energy source, or it explicitly includes the situation of agriculture, which may change significantly as the share of biomass increases. the progressive handling of the infrastructure requirements (e.g. acceleration of energy infrastructure projects, expansion of hydroelectric storage in different countries) makes it impossible to agree with the report as a whole.
in writing. − the western balkans candidate countries are still in many cases failing to effectively implement legislation, despite having adopted the gender equality legislation required for the eu accession process. the report condemns violence against women, but it is also very concerned that 30% of the victims of human trafficking in the eu are nationals of balkan countries. i'm a campaigner for women's rights and equality and for the reduction of the gender pay gap. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − the equality of women in our society is a central issue that obviously needs to be addressed. however, the eu's approach, for example by introducing the quota system, is not in my view the most effective. there is no doubt that women in eu countries or future member states must have the same opportunities and opportunities as men, for example in the field of education. however, the mechanisms for this equality should not be dictated by the eu, but each country must decide for itself which mechanism is the most reasonable for its population. this also applies to potential future member states, whose admission should not be too closely linked to these requirements. i did not vote for the report because i believe that it is in this area that the individual countries should not be regulated. each country has its own specific situation which cannot be applied at eu level. the eu should therefore leave the responsibility to the countries.
in writing. - i am very positive about the report on women's rights in the candidate countries of the balkans. it gives both general recommendations for action and specific comments for each country. gender equality is a key issue in the eu's development strategy. we are still a long way from true equality in austria. women still face discrimination and violence, whether in the labour market or in social life. this makes it all the more important to implement existing european equality policies and standards in all the candidate countries as soon as possible. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i therefore particularly welcome the report's recommendation to introduce mandatory quotas for women.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i am a strong supporter of the principle of the equal treatment of women and men and i strongly believe that rights should be equal for all citizens without taking gender into consideration. in my opinion, equality between women and men should operate over a wide area and the requirements for gender equality implementation policies and measures should be clearly defined in all member states. even if some of us consider that we currently live in a very modern and developed society (/civilisation), there is still a lot to do in some countries of the world in order to achieve gender equality and to improve the economic and political situation and position of women. in this sense all countries still struggling with ‘system difficulties’ should start adapting their laws, policies, budgets and institutional frameworks to ‘general human rights and european principles, rules and directives’ in order to establish equal rights and treatment for its citizens, both women and men.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report. i would like to make a brief criticism of net neutrality. the issue of net neutrality is only mentioned in passing in this report. but much more would be needed. we need to set a new priority list so that we can really do justice to traditional media and new media. why is net neutrality important? what is net neutrality? net neutrality means that we treat all data on the net equally, that we don't favor any data. if we give preference to certain data, we give the big networks the right to influence our content, what we read, what we are informed about. so the issue of net neutrality has a big impact on media freedom, on freedom of expression and also on the right to freedom of information. this is why it is important that we actually enshrine net neutrality in law at european level, rather than just casually affirming and mentioning the principle.
in writing. − the report contains a number of important findings and calls for strengthening media freedom in europe. it is noteworthy that it does not only refer to traditional media, but also clearly includes digital media and the internet, and explicitly states that freedom of expression and freedom of information should also be ensured on the internet. the media is considered the fourth power in the state, and therefore there is a need for a legal framework that allows the media to perform this control function. freedom of the media includes the right of people to have unhindered access to information and to share political events via social media. the commission has therefore taken the necessary measures to strengthen the freedom of the internet. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. in this respect, i think that point 12 is particularly important, since it explicitly states the principle of net neutrality, which is intended to ensure that the internet remains a free and open technology that promotes democratic communication. the report therefore rightly calls on the eu and the member states to ensure that both unhindered access and the provision and dissemination of information on the internet are fully respected.
in writing. − this report deals with the standard-setting of media freedom in the eu. media play an important role in a democracy and are essential to its existence and survival. freedom of the media is a cornerstone of values such as democracy, pluralism and respect for the rights of minorities and has been a guiding principle for the advancement of democratic thought and the development of european ideals. freedom of the media, pluralism and the independence of journalism are essential for the exercise of media activities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the union, including the areas of the internal market, the internal market, the free movement of goods, the free movement of persons, the free movement of services, the free movement of capital, the free movement of persons, the free movement of persons within the union, and the free movement of persons within the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in addition to the reasons which mr messerschmidt has just put forward, which i support, i have of course also found some points which would be quite reasonable, such as paragraph 6, where the future of pension schemes is to be based on three pillars, which my party has always advocated. but the central points, such as raising the retirement age, must be rejected completely. this is not a way of securing pensions, it is simply a way of producing more unemployed. if someone at retirement age cannot find a job today, how can he find a job with an increase in the retirement age? the central point is simply and simply left out here: the whole pension system is not financially viable unless we increase birth rates, unless we have a different family policy, unless we ensure that we have future pensioners who can actually carry the system forward to the next generation. the problem of the development of births is not addressed in this pension report, but it is the central problem. as long as this central issue is being ignored, no useful report will ever be produced.
in writing. - the eu population is facing a demographic problem. people are getting older, while the birth rate continues to fall. the danger that the generational contract can no longer be fulfilled is becoming more and more real. the financing of pensions is becoming more and more difficult for individual countries, probably due to poor planning for the future, which already happened years ago. the eu also sees its role in coordinating pensions, although this is the responsibility of the member states, simply because of the differences in pension systems. this is partly due to the requirements of the stability and growth pact. the call for a europe-wide increase in the retirement age under the guise of countering the aggregation of the population is also not really useful, since one has to first of all look at the actual retirement age. the report contains good ideas, but the eu level is simply the wrong one for this issue, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i have agreed to this report because i can agree with most of the demands it contains. the report clearly emphasises the importance of universal, state pension schemes and calls for them to ensure a decent standard of living in old age. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social security system is not undermined by the introduction of the single currency. a sustainable pension system is one of the most important tools for redistribution and for combating old age poverty. the report also addresses the issue of equality for women in pension rights, for example by the inclusion of caring periods. state and public pension systems are a key element of european social models. the state and general pension systems must ensure a good living in old age. no one should have to rely on private health care, especially after the experience of the last few years. the financial and economic crisis has clearly shown how uncertain and vulnerable these systems can be.
in writing. − the report emphasises the approach of building up pensions even when an otherwise employed person withdraws from the labour market for a period of time because of caring duties. i support the rapporteur's view that these models need to be extended. mobility should be encouraged, not punished. the union promotes mobility and encourages its citizens to use open borders. it is indeed urgent to coordinate the pension systems of all the member states at least in such a way that the freedom of the labour market and the courage to take this step do not disadvantage union citizens in old age. i abstained because i believe that pension systems, which still show considerable differences between economies, should remain a matter of national policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market, and has recently published a report on the situation of women in the labour market.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to take part in this afternoon’s debate on the package of regulations establishing the single supervisory mechanism and adapting the set-up of the european banking authority. in may 2012, the commission called for a banking union, to restore confidence in banks and in the euro. this was reflected in the report on economic and monetary union prepared by the presidents of the european council, the commission, the eurogroup and the european central bank. a complete banking union requires common supervision, deposit insurance and a common resolution framework, with an appropriate fiscal backstop. centralising supervision was the first step in this process. therefore, the immediate priority for the proposal was to create a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) for the euro area, with the ecb taking on the prudential supervision of credit institutions. this package of texts, the ecb regulation conferring supervisory tasks on the ecb, and the amended eba regulation will lay the foundations of a new and more effective system of supervision for all the participating member states. the new system will neither do away with nor duplicate the national supervisors, but it will incorporate them into a more powerful architecture centred on the ecb. at the same time it will make full use of the resources and skills of the national authorities. the eba will preserve its role in preparing draft regulations and will see an increase in its powers, particularly regarding the assessment of the resilience of our banking systems. this is a significant achievement, and i will set out some of its key aspects in a moment. it is particularly significant that it has been accomplished in only two and a half months of intense negotiations. i would therefore like to pay particular tribute to the econ chair, sharon bowles, and the two excellent rapporteurs, marianne thyssen and sven giegold, for their dedication and the constructive way they have enabled our two institutions to cooperate. the crisis that has hit our economies in the last five years has revealed considerable weaknesses in many banking systems and in the way they were supervised. billions of euros of public money have been committed to supporting the banking system, whilst budgetary constraints have been imposed on other policies. this has led to very considerable and understandable public frustration. the single supervisory mechanism is a major step forward in restoring the confidence of markets and the public in the strength of our supervisory system. i will briefly mention some of the key provisions of the agreement reached between our institutions. firstly – and importantly – we have agreed on the distribution of work between the ecb and the national competent authorities. we have sought to reconcile the cohesiveness of the supervisory architecture – to have a true single supervisory mechanism – with the need to make the most of national supervisors’ competences and local reach. the ecb will concentrate supervision on the most significant institutions determined on the basis of size, importance to the national economy in home member states, and the extent of its cross-border activities but will also be able to expand its direct supervisory role in the light of identified needs. it will in any case be able from the outset to guide the actions of national supervisors. the ecb will also be able to exercise some macro-prudential powers, in cooperation with national authorities. overall, we have in our negotiations sought, where relevant, to respect the balance of prerogatives between home and host member state supervisors. since the single supervisory mechanism will bring about a major institutional change, it is important that it builds on existing arrangements based on current banking legislation. the powers of the ecb must of course be balanced by adequate accountability and governance arrangements, to which this parliament has made a particularly important contribution. there will also be important safeguards regarding the separation of the supervisory function from the monetary policy function within the ecb. however, it is clear that the governing council remains the key decision-making body of the ecb. the authorities from all participating member states will be represented, alongside the ecb, on the supervisory board in charge of preparing decisions. we have agreed on the establishment of robust safeguards, including the establishment of a mediation panel, to resolve differences of views between member state authorities when the governing council objects to a draft decision. these also relate to the appointment of the chair and vice-chair of the supervisory board, where parliament now has a very prominent role. safeguards were also needed for non-euro area member states willing to participate in the single supervisory mechanism, with the aim of making the new system as attractive as possible to non-euro area member states. these additional safeguards recognise that the non-euro-area member states are not represented in the governing council and cannot fully benefit from the other mechanisms provided for the euro-area member states. the text, i believe, achieves a good balance on this particular issue, and i understand that many countries have given indications that they are considering joining the ssm as a result. the package before us today sends a hugely important signal to markets. when the ecb takes up its full supervisory powers around summer next year, this will constitute a major change to the current system. we will have put in place the first pillar of the banking union. we will have shown that we are together determined to make our financial system more robust. but we should not be complacent. the ssm is of course only the first step on the path to establishing the banking union. together we have a lot more work to do to complete that task, and i know we can count on the continued cooperation of parliament in order to achieve that.
member of the commission. - madam president, hello to each and every one of you. i would also like to thank, first of all, marianne thyssen and sven giegold for their appreciation of our cooperation and the work that the commission has done, quickly and seriously, indeed, throughout the summer of last year, to put on your table, as a collective package - it was a commitment we had made to deal with these two subjects together - and on the part of the ministers, this important piece, major for europe, of integrated supervision, as, by the way, i say, another major piece. the european parliament and the council have recently approved a text which is fundamental to the robustness of the european banking sector, the crd iv directive. this legislative package, ladies and gentlemen, is, as we all know, the first step towards what is known as banking union. the aim of this banking union is to restore confidence in banks and to ensure the soundness and reliability of the banking sector. it must also help to strengthen the internal market, which has been - as sven giegold rightly said - undermined by the financial crisis, and, finally, to guarantee financial stability, which is one of the conditions for a return to confidence and growth. with the creation of the single supervisory mechanism, we are ensuring a common, impartial and european supervision of banks. the transnational banks, which will be in trouble, will no longer be able to be managed at the level of a single member state and its supervisor, without a global approach and without coordination. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if we had had this single supervisory mechanism earlier, we could have prevented the problems we have encountered in recent years in many banks, in almost all the banking crises in the single market. the national supervisors will of course continue to play the important role of a clear division of labour with the european central bank, but their work will now be part of the single supervisory mechanism and will be placed under the aegis of the european central bank, which will have the responsibility of ensuring the proper functioning of this mechanism, as marianne thyssen has recalled. although the single supervisory mechanism was initially limited to the euro area, we have committed ourselves, as many of you have wished, to ensuring that the integrity of the single market is fully preserved, thanks to the dedicated role of the european banking authority. i now come to a subject which raises questions and, at times, concerns. the specific rules on the governance of the european central bank will ensure a strict separation between supervisory tasks and monetary policy functions. i know that some of you would like to see it go further, but if we look carefully at the regulation we have on the table today, i think that in practice supervision and monetary policy will indeed be completely separate. i would like to thank the presidencies of the council of the european union, in particular the cypriot presidency and, dear linda, the irish presidency, which have been very proactive on this matter, and then, of course, i would like to thank your assembly, which has shown, once again, a very european spirit, a great speed in its work, a sense of responsibility and a great efficiency. i would like to thank in particular, on behalf of the european commission, your two rapporteurs, marianne thyssen and sven giegold, and many of you, including sharon bowles, sylvie goulard, mrs klinz, mrs lamberts, mr sánchez presedo and mr pittella, who have taken part in various meetings of the trilogues, which have been very numerous, and all the other members who have contributed to this constructive discussion. this contribution of parliament has been fundamental in two respects, which you have mentioned in particular: first, the democratic responsibility of the european central bank; second, the need to ensure that the european central bank is not a mere institutional institution. the standards of supervision that your parliament has obtained are among the highest in the european union, and rightly so, because the european central bank will have very important supervisory powers. i very much hope that the specific arrangements to be negotiated in this interinstitutional agreement with the european central bank will allow for the effective implementation of this democratic control. as you both have said, sven giegold and marianne thyssen, this is a question of democracy and i also hope that these arrangements will be approved in that spirit as soon as possible, so that supervision can be effective, operational and rapid, at the beginning of 2014. on the other hand, the voting arrangements within the european banking authority have been adapted so that decisions take full account of the interests of all member states. i very much hope - but it is, of course, for you to decide - that parliament will welcome these texts and be able to give its final approval as soon as possible. i repeat that it is very important, as the european central bank is preparing for this, that this supervisory mechanism should be operational in the first months of 2014. it should of course be stressed that this operational implementation will not be effective, according to the texts before us, until one year after publication in the official journal. thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, and thanks to the council, a strong signal will be sent to the markets, to our international partners and, first and foremost, to the citizens, who want to learn from the crises that have affected them, that have weakened them, who have called for considerable public contributions - almost 11 or 13 per cent of gdp at the time of the financial crisis - a signal that the european union is firmly committed not only to learning from this crisis but also to stabilising the euro area, strengthening the single market and thus laying the foundations for a resumption of growth. it will also allow us to start working quickly on the establishment of a single resolution mechanism, which is another major part of the banking union and which i intend, on behalf of the commission, to propose to the council of ministers and the european parliament in the coming weeks. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not in a position to do so. you are one of the best connoisseurs of european constitutional matters. i have fond memories of my work in the committee on constitutional affairs. two questions: do you think that what is now being launched is still taking place within the treaty of lisbon or is it actually already taking place outside it? secondly, how do you think the necessary progress - you have spoken of a radical rebuilding - of the european union will be politically feasible in the member states?
i have to say, madam president, the debt of banks in the euro area is about three times the national debt of all euro area countries. but if you follow the political debate, you get the impression that it is all about the national debt and that citizens have been over-managing their circumstances. that's not true! some people are talking - and i can only agree - about the crippling domination of zombie banking. and now we're going to get into banking supervision. that's good! this is a small puzzle when it comes to the great crisis. yes, it fits the overall concept of "banking behind bars". but the way you have set it up, commissioner, and those responsible for it, you run the enormous risk that the ecb will become, in its public perception, a successor to what the versailles treaties once stood for in germany, and that the moment the ecb then acts out of its power, the cry will be: 'this is not necessary at our bank, and it affects my deposits'. it is only the evil brussels, represented by the ecb, that is doing this! the commission has already taken up this idea, and i think that you should ...
i have not finished, but i have really tried to enter into a dialogue with the commissioner who is talking to another colleague all the time. then there's no point in me talking to you.
i think that i too, personally, represent 500 000 voters from a country where there is a danger that if you do not act democratically and do not finally accept accountability, this whole story will fly by the seat of your pants, that millions of austrians will simply say: get out of this union, because it is no longer ours, because we cannot enter into dialogue, because we are not understood by the ecb and because now the ecb is massively undermining that a minimum of democratic control is possible at all. it is perverse to live in a society in which - to quote a colleague - every animal in germany is controlled and who keeps it, but in the sixth year of the crisis we still do not know: what about derivatives and their scope? what about the dangers of cdws, credit default swaps, shadow banks? that everything is not regulated at all and that so far 10% is made technocratic. but the big project that you have before you, commissioner, you are putting off because you are waiting for the german federal elections, when in reality the citizens want us to finally make progress on deposit insurance, but then on the central problem of too big to fail and the separate banking system. you're in a lot of trouble.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can connect to my predecessor seamlessly. there are no rules anymore, and the rules that still apply are simply broken. we too are breaking the rules today by simply not complying with primary eu law. that is the signal we are giving to the citizen all the time. instead, the european union regulates whether olive oil can still be offered in bottles in the pubs. it's all been worked out! but where there is a need to regulate, there is no need to regulate properly. no separate banking system, no clear rules that are also enforced for the entire banking and financial sector, no restriction - as mr bloom has already criticised - on the unlimited monopoly of money creation that the banks now have! no longer the ecb, the banks have taken over the monopoly of money creation! all that we are deciding today is just a pretext for direct financing, as mario monti and mariano rajoy did back then, that the esm should continue to finance the sick banks directly. so i say, enough of this bank bailout! we are not gaining anything by doing so, we are only getting deeper into the crisis and solving nothing. we have to stop bailing out banks that are failing. we must send them back where they belong: to bankruptcy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we cannot hope for a miracle of self-healing by the banks through an economic recovery. gradually, i think the banking crisis is worsening the recession to the point where it is putting the solution to the banking crisis further and further out of reach. one thing is clear: the banking union will do little to help overcome the current crisis. finally, it is the framework for the future resolution mechanism. so even if a banking union is formally launched in 2014, it could at best take several years for it to have its full effect. the most important test will undoubtedly be the deposit guarantee. if there is a common pot for the savings guarantees - that is, a community of debts - then i think the eu as a whole is in danger of encountering difficulties. without responsibility, there is no incentive to get back on your feet. this final step towards debt union therefore cements - or would cements - the path to an eu debt tower, and we should avoid that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament is consistently drawing lessons from the crisis, step by step. it is also necessary to say today that if things had gone our way, we would have had the single banking supervision since 1 january 2012 and would not have had to discuss and decide on it until now. i would appeal to the council to do the right thing and the necessary thing at the first attempt and not always at the second or third attempt. i thank the rapporteurs marianne thyssen and sven giegold because they also show as individuals that party differences do not separate us when it comes to building a broad majority in parliament for what is necessary and right in the european union and overcoming national vanities. we know we have to go in a new direction. a common currency requires common banking regulation, a common banking regulation requires uniform banking supervision, and the banking union requires, in addition, a banking insolvency law and a common deposit insurance system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that all these individual pieces of mosaic are for the realization of our total responsibility. we must also be very clear: when the single banking supervision was proposed, the countries said they did not want banking supervision to go into every single bank, instead of telling people that the balance sheet total of the banks concerned had to be over eur 30 billion, the balance sheet total had to be above 20% of the economic output of a member state, it mainly concerns the three largest banks and we have developed this model according to the principle of subsidiarity. we now hope for democratic control through the interinstitutional agreement with the ecb.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the banking union has been the most absurd prank the financial institutions have ever played on us in modern financial history. the commission is now proposing to place them under the central supervision of the european central bank. this is a necessary evil from the point of view of the banks, because the real objective is to get taxpayers' money from the esm for direct refinancing. but what's the problem? the bank debt is many times greater than the national debt of the member states in crisis. we're funding the past and future gambling of private players with public money. we encourage them to take even more risks, since they can now refinance themselves with taxpayer money, independent of the market. so this is a pure incentive debacle. i ask you: how would a thousand casino visitors play if they knew that their losses were borne by the eu but that they could take the profits themselves?
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 22 may, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.) written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the draft wipo convention on exceptions to copyright for the visually impaired (2013/2614 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, i thank you for your commitment and i appreciate that you are taking these matters seriously. but if we go into the details, we have to talk to each other because we both want - you said it - a contract that really creates access and is not old wine in new bottles. i would like to mention three main points. this is the passage on commercial availability which my colleague has already mentioned. if you force blind organisations to do this kind of over-searching, it's not going to help publishers, and it's not going to help blind people actually get access to works. that is a serious point, and we must rule it out. there's no point in insisting on this passage. the second point is that it cannot and must not be ruled out that works in accessible formats can also be sent to private individuals with visual impairments, because there are not blind organisations all over the world and this is a worldwide agreement. we must take into account that we do not assume the european model elsewhere. thirdly, if this can work in practice, we must also exclude the possibility of blocking access by technical means. so the famous drm must not be an obstacle. i'd like you to consider these points really consistently. i would also like to ask the council to comment on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the free movement of persons. i would therefore like to know what exactly is the mandate you have given the commission.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there were two petitions last year from blind and deaf organisations which suggested that we should work with the commissioner to make a legally binding exception for the visually impaired in a future wipo treaty within the un framework. you were convinced of parliament's appeals and you promised at the time that you would actively seek to support this cause. i thank you for having already kept that promise in that you have actively sought this negotiating mandate. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. they confirm the same targeting direction. let us therefore take up this momentum and make a real and determined effort to achieve a legitimate aim for this large group. first: let us allow books for the blind to be sent to other countries, not only between blind organisations, which unfortunately do not exist everywhere, but also between individuals. secondly, let us not commit the helpful ngos to time-consuming and costly procedures for controlling blind information which is already commercially available, and let us free this international treaty from most of the bureaucratic fetters and possible over-regulation! while we are being bombarded by millions of pieces of information, millions of visually impaired people in this digitised world have no access to, or only a tenth of, this work. the eu must decide at the june negotiations in marrakesh: do we want to be, as so often, one of the leading regions in the world, or do we want to leave people alone? i have already come to know you, commissioner, as a determined and socially innovative politician. i trust you and i believe you will have the support of parliament for a successful negotiation. it's about giving millions of people access to the number one cultural asset, the book!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. non-discrimination is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and access to books is therefore the realisation of a fundamental right, article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. for the visually impaired and blind, however, it is much more: it is access to knowledge, hence access to further training, hence access to improved employment conditions. we are at 5% of access, that has been mentioned, 100% must be our goal some distant day. i am very pleased, mr barnier, that you are now open to creating exceptions in intellectual property law and have made this quite clear to us here in parliament. they know as well as we do that copyright is simply outdated and needs to be adapted accordingly, including to the needs of blind and visually impaired people. i am now, however, particularly interested in the council's position. how's it look in here? what's the warrant? what is the situation with those member states which continue to block? because i think, especially here, we should be looking at who are the people who are hiding behind other people, and who is the people who are really making sure that blind and visually impaired people have access to this basic right?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the speaker does not speak into the microphone)... to recall a few facts. every five seconds, a person on this planet goes blind. worldwide, we have 37 million blind people and 124 million visually impaired people. now, when visually impaired people go into a library and try to pick a book from a shelf where we have a hundred books, they don't have a choice between a hundred books, they have five books or maybe in the worst case one. we call this equality? do you see this as not being discrimination? i would like to emphasize once again the explicit reference to article 26 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the fact that the wipo treaty has still not been signed and has not yet entered into force is totally unacceptable to me, totally incomprehensible. i would now ask all those involved and all the stakeholders to think again and really think about how long we can wait.
in writing. the need for a modern copyright law is reflected in the question of how people have access to books and other works. over 95% of publications in books or magazines in europe are not in formats that can be read by blind and partially sighted people. in order to change them and to convert them into braille or machine-readable or audible formats, exceptions to copyright must be created. in 2009, the commission did indeed oppose such a binding contract for the benefit of the blind and visually impaired. it is welcome that the commission has now dropped its objections and is willing to support binding exceptions for the benefit of the blind and visually impaired and a binding wipo copyright treaty on books and printed matter for the blind and visually impaired. non-discrimination is a fundamental right enshrined in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights. all people have the right to access knowledge, books and works. copyright is supposed to adapt to people, not the other way around.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry you had to interrupt mrs. ernst. i think it was a very valuable contribution that mrs cornelia ernst made here. but i would like to make a brief comment on the following: the availability of data, the availability of information to the right people at the right time in the right place, with respect for fundamental rights, in particular data protection and the right to privacy, is of course one of the success criteria in the field of internal security. i would therefore like to deal with a specific point in the stockholm programme, namely information management. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there are also a number of initiatives: we have europol as a platform, we have frontex as a platform where information is exchanged, where information is analysed. we also have the information management strategy, and that is precisely what my question to the council and to the commission is aimed at: to what extent has this information management strategy already been implemented, what are the problems in its implementation and what has been achieved so far? i would be very grateful if you could perhaps briefly explain some things.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme is at a crucial stage. commissioner, you mentioned it: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission will now present us with a sort of success report on the measures implemented at the end of this parliamentary term. what i am particularly interested in is the anti-discrimination directive. we have provided in the stockholm programme - really at the heart of the stockholm programme - that xenophobia, homophobia, racism are to be combated, and there are also a number of non-legislative measures. but what is the situation in the council and the commission now with regard to the anti-discrimination directive? another particularly important issue, which mr berlinguer mentioned, is the implementation of the concrete measures. the citizens often do not know what has been achieved. there are now criminal justice initiatives, there are victims' rights. all of this is very important. but it is equally important that the public should know this. i am therefore very interested to know what the commission is planning to do about improved information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the stockholm programme, which could be an important building block in the architecture of europe's internal security, is unfortunately not receiving the attention it deserves - neither from the general public nor from political actors. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we must ensure that the principles of presumption of innocence or the principle of non-discrimination are respected in all actions. we are also still awaiting the evaluation of the relevant legislation adopted by the european parliament on 25 november 2009. the stockholm programme also focuses on combating all forms of discrimination, xenophobia and homophobia. while there are a number of non-legislative measures in the action plan, we are still awaiting the council's approval of the 2008 proposed directive. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr weidenholzer. there is a well-known saying that freedom dies with certainty. and my question to you is this: do you think that the european union has found the right balance between security on the one hand and freedom on the other in creating an area of freedom, security and justice?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this question could be discussed at great length. i believe that this balance is not being found at the moment and that unfortunately this is moving more and more towards a supposedly security mindset which restricts the freedom of action on many issues.
we are grateful to you, madam president, for accompanying us all day today and holding up the flag of the council presidency in parliament. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the treatment of the question of inheritance tax following the adoption of the regulation on inheritance tax ((eu) no 650/2012) (2013/2639 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. with the eu regulation on inheritance, we have a piece of european legislation that can directly affect the lives of many citizens. and if we now tackle the issue of double taxation in this context, it is of course also of great importance for social policy. 9 million europeans are potentially affected namely those who do not live in the country to which they belong. and they are now faced with this legal choice: heirs can now choose between the country they belong to or the one they end up living in before they die. the question of how to deal with taxation arises in many european legal acts with recommendations, i.e. soft law. so my question to you is: has the commission already sought dialogue with the member states to find a long-term solution to the threat of double taxation and to tax evasion by closing loopholes? finally, even here there is the potential for deliberate tax evasion. does the commission have any concerns that some heirs with multiple nationalities are deliberately choosing the law in favour of member states which do not levy any inheritance tax under their national law? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission's statement on the blocking of the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 (2013/2637 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in june. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is high time that this issue was put on the agenda. finally, there is the long-awaited mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a legislative package that strengthens the rights of victims. it's definitely a step in the right direction. the european union is a global network of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of networks of they are stronger in their freedom, their rights and their security. this means that for those concerned, they will enjoy the exact same protection in another eu country as they did before - except in denmark, which does not participate because of protocol 22, whereas the uk and ireland participate in these protective measures, which i personally welcome very much. in conclusion, i would like to stress that there is an urgent need to provide immediate and unbureaucratic assistance to those affected. it is equally important to introduce uniform information and awareness campaigns directly and in all countries. in conclusion, a special thanks to our rapporteurs.
the commission has already done so. with 30 million criminal offences committed in the european union in one year, anyone can be a victim of crime. what we're seeing is that crime is transnational. victim protection will be in the future. we are doing this by means of the regulation we are going to adopt today. this regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters complements the legislative package of the european parliament and the council on victim protection. as a reminder, we have already adopted the minimum standards for the rights of victims of crime and the directive on the protection order in criminal proceedings. the aim of today's regulation is to protect victims of violence - and these are usually women and children, the most vulnerable in our society - in particular from domestic violence, from stalking, or to take preventive measures in all the countries of the european union, regardless of the country where this protection order was issued, under very simple rules that will lead to rapid implementation and rapid assistance for the victims concerned. with this regulation, which we are adopting today, we have established a comprehensive system of victim protection throughout europe, regardless of whether the protection measure is regulated by criminal or civil law in the country concerned. we stand up for the victims, while others may appear to care more about the perpetrators.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and, above all, for their cooperation in this matter. this regulation is a step in the right direction and was actually long overdue. victim protection is a matter for all of us, and it's not limited. to date, victims of crime are treated differently in each eu country. i therefore welcome this regulation and the amendments proposed to it. in austria, about 84% of all women have experienced insults and abuse. one in two women say they have been threatened or beaten. the basic idea of the european union is to create an area of freedom, security and justice. in future, victims will be protected from all forms of violence across borders. a violent husband or partner, women and children are usually the victims. therefore, victims of gender-based violence, harassment, abduction and stalking must be protected from the perpetrators. this regulation is a good law that puts the victims of crime and violence at the centre!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my german colleague and i from austria naturally ask ourselves many questions. one of them is: will it be possible to turn the financial transaction tax into european own resources? and perhaps this can also be used as a kind of basic capital in the form of a bailout, so that in the future we can see whether the european union is really willing to bring stability back to this area. i wonder what elmar brok thinks about that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is just a year since the fiscal compact was adopted - without the vote of the european parliament, against the community method - and with massive and unilateral austerity measures it is driving even more injustice and poverty on this continent. and now there is a proposal here to make contracts on competitiveness. chancellor merkel in germany has spoken of a 'national treaty on greater competitiveness'. the commission will be able to conclude individual agreements with the member states. have chancellor merkel and all the others who are pushing this so unilaterally really not yet understood that if they are pushing for more and more competition, they are pushing for more and more savings, savings, savings and this undemocratic approach, so that both parliaments and citizens on this continent are getting more and more confused, that they are exacerbating injustice, pushing for social divisions? what we need, and what is also stated in this report by parliament, is more democracy, involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments, more solidarity and really the full involvement of all the social partners. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i say it plainly and without equivocation: we need this social pillar! we need him! that's it! right now! the fact is that eu countries are drifting further and further apart. rich countries are getting richer, poor countries are getting poorer. and who's gonna pay for it? those who have the least! i have nothing against you, commissioner. it's very nice of you to discuss with us today. i would also be very happy if the commissioner for social affairs were here to take all this on board. the social ministers should also be involved much more closely, and not always just the ecofin ministers. in this respect, i also regret that the council is not here today. a social pillar is an investment! it is a question of what is done more or less. and that's what we're missing. after all, we're not asking for anything special. this is not a revolution. i am thinking here of the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. one day we should have achieved this - a truly social market economy.
the commission has already done so. we have recently been awarded the nobel peace prize, not only for the achievements of the past, but - as i understand it - above all as a challenge and a call to shape the future of europe peacefully. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. and in your shop, in the commission, you have answers to these questions. we have a paper called "investing in health". it contains a great many recommendations which help europe to grow socially together. investments in health, investments in human health are investments in the workforce, and therefore also investments in the economy, investments in social cohesion. but what you do on a daily basis is the exact opposite of what this paper describes so well and so forward-looking. they call on the member states to make radical cuts in health and social services, to cut the grass with the mower, instead of encouraging real programmes to invest in people's health, labour and social cohesion. i think the papers are there, you just need to be willing to implement them!
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this report yesterday, firstly because a socialist colleague said that austria and luxembourg had to be brought under control. i must make it clear to you that neither the commission nor anyone else in this house needs to get austria under control. austria is not a tax haven. austria has one of the highest tax rates in the european union at 44%. that means that for six months you work in austria only for the state! what's a tax haven? this report is not against tax evasion, it is against tax competition! the european union is making competition a dogma, idolizing it, but in the tax field, competition is suddenly out of the question. i'm a tax competition advocate. the solution is not to control people, but to reduce the tax burden and simplify the tax systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - that tax havens, where billionaires store their money, should be drained is correct. therefore, a certain exchange of data with third countries such as switzerland is to be encouraged. the eu must also turn around at its own door. the british channel islands will continue to be a haven for tax evaders from all over the world. tax evasion and avoidance cost the taxpayer billions each year. this is unacceptable and we must therefore work together more closely at european level. as important as the fight against tax fraud is, it must be ensured that the legitimate fight against tax evasion does not lead to a glass-bottomed average banking customer. the proverbial savings book of the grandmother must remain intact and is not a matter for the state. the small savers must not be left out of the picture when it comes to tackling crossborder tax fraud on a large scale. i voted in that spirit.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion are unacceptable, especially in times of financial and economic crisis and tight public finances. the tax burden is shifted to low-income workers and households. while tax fraud and tax havens are losing four times the amount of european education spending, namely one trillion euros, each year, governments are having to cut important public services. the report proposes concrete measures to combat tax evasion at international and european level. in a globalised economy, purely national approaches are not effective. to close the enormous tax gap, european member states must jointly implement the measures recommended in the report.
in writing. − tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance practices lead to losses and an increase in deficit and debt level in all member states. effective taxation is very important for our member states and their public authorities that have to meet their citizens` needs and fulfil their demands. i think the proper functioning of the single market and an efficient and fair tax system within europe is a must. every country should have an effective, business-friendly and progressive taxation system that would allow investments, employment and growth to develop. in order to achieve this, i believe that stricter regulation with regard to tax fraud, evasions, aggressive tax planning and tax havens is needed.
in writing. − the report highlights the need, in the current difficult economic environment, to set the right fiscal priorities that stabilise or stimulate demand in the long term or provide incentives for research and development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the internal market is highly dependent on a transparent tax system in each member state, as international firms rely on information and legal certainty. the initiative to draw up a guide to the calculation of corporation tax is to be welcomed. it is important to stress, however, and this is also clearly stated in the report, that tax sovereignty is still exclusively at the level of the member states and should remain there. i have voted in favour of the report on these grounds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because in my opinion the tax systems in europe should encourage, not discourage, the business environment. we have to get out of the recession. we have to help european countries to ‘get back on track’, and we have to have tax policies, directives and rules that help the business environment meet the challenges and objectives set out by the eu 2020 strategy. we have to generate development, growth and investments and we have to create jobs and promote the development of smes. it is in the interest of our countries’ economies and citizens to have a stable and transparent tax system. last but not least, we have to fight against tax fraud and evasion. the first step would be, in my opinion, a more friendly, transparent and stimulating tax system.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for this report because it is a useful instrument to discourage the czech people from trying to get special rules permanently. the czechs have unfortunately managed to get into the european union with the criminal beneš decrees. now they are constantly trying to declare that other rules of international law, but of course also of human rights, are not applicable to the czech territory, in order to avoid anything concerning the displaced persons. we must remember that this was a real genocide which took place in the czech republic after the end of the second world war, with several million displaced and a quarter of a million murdered. this is unacceptable! there can be no nation in the european union today which is not responsible for its historical guilt. the czech government and parliament are called upon to finally accept their historic responsibility towards the displaced persons, and this in the light of the fact that this ethnic group has contributed to the prosperity of this country for 800 years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it convincingly demonstrates that there is no need to convene a convention to examine the proposal to include the czech republic in protocol (no 30) on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. the effects are either nonexistent or very limited.
i have to say, madam president, i have finally agreed to this report today because it was voted on in the amended form. i am therefore grateful to the left-wing parties today for once, for making it clear that we do not need such an examination to amend the treaties. if we have constantly stressed the indivisibility of fundamental rights and human rights in the debates with russia or ukraine, i do not see why we should not do the same with regard to the czech republic. the debate is twofold: simply because it is politically expedient to take action against russia or ukraine, it declares the indivisibility of fundamental rights and human rights. but as soon as the czech republic and the beneš decrees are involved, we are suddenly prepared to allow exceptions. fundamental rights and human rights are inseparable! the same applies to the czech republic!
in writing. - the report, which i have approved, sets out very precisely and comprehensibly why protocol no 30 - the so-called opt-out - on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights to poland and the united kingdom is de facto and de jure practically irrelevant. it cannot cancel the effect of the charter, which it does not want or try to do over long distances. this has also been established by the ecj. in the specific case, the czech republic under president václav klaus wanted to be included in protocol no 30, as there was concern that the inhumane beneš decrees, which legalized the illegal expulsion of the sudeten germans from bohemia and moravia after the second world war, would be deleted from the eu charter of fundamental rights. this is an incredible event in itself and it is again surprising that the eu has not condemned this act. everything is allowed against the germans. the czech approach also shows that the czechs are very well aware that the beneš decrees, which are still part of the czech legal system, are in violation of the principles of human rights. it is more than regrettable that the eu, which is the champion of human rights everywhere else in the world, does not criticize or hold the czech republic accountable for this wrongdoing.
in writing. − the two rapporteurs have set themselves the objective of more effective legal protection and support for victims of crime and improved victim support. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. such a development takes account of the objectives of the european union (article 3 teu).
in writing. − the new customs agreement between canada and the eu aims to strengthen customs related aspects of the logistics chain security in international trade, while facilitating legitimate trade. this creates a legal basis which can only be beneficial to enhanced cooperation between canada and the eu. the mutual recognition of reliable traders and the observance of safety standards are essential to ensure the competitiveness of eu countries, especially in global trade. the european union alone is not in a position to ensure and control compliance, particularly in the security sector, which is why such agreements are necessary. however, special attention must be paid to ensuring that the eu's high standards are also applied. i have therefore abstained, since the report does not provide any guarantee of this.
in writing. the report describes a useful complement to the existing agreements with canada. improved coordination and cooperation will allow customs authorities to work more efficiently and will help to remove barriers to legitimate international trade. in view of these advantages, the report is to be approved.
in writing. − bearing in mind the current economic situation of europe and in particular the precarious financial situation of some european countries and member states (e.g. greece, cyprus, portugal), i strongly favour a new, revised and effective banking supervision approach. the european union and its members should be able to fully trust the quality of the banking supervision system. the report refers to better, more responsible and efficient monitoring and supervision of banks’ activity and performance across europe and its member states. there are positive aspects related to ‘a prudential supervision’ of credit institutions. a ‘single supervisory mechanism’ will secure the financial deposits of our citizens and reduce the imbalances in competitiveness. among other things, investor confidence will be rebuilt, fostering economic growth and new employment opportunities, and financing methods and loans will strengthen, which will translate into better and more transparent credit availability for the business environment. the ep will give the final vote at a later point of time, so that national parliaments can present their view and negotiations between ep and ecb on an interinstitutional agreement can take place.
in writing. − i believe that harmonising the supply of pyrotechnic articles by means of enhanced safety features and uniform labelling would contribute to enhanced consumer protection. i also think that this proposal includes measures to reduce red tape by modernising current procedures and reducing the indication of upstream and downstream economic actors in the supply chain. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. however, the report does not clearly identify the eu's methods of protection against unsafe or illegal products and their importation and distribution. moreover, the directive does not take account of operators for whom the standard would be counterproductive. i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to amend the proposal.
in writing. the nine product directives mentioned in the report are intended to take further steps towards completing and optimising the internal market in line with the objectives of the european union. the creation of a common legal framework in the sense of harmonization is very welcome.
in writing. − the directive aims to remove barriers to the production and distribution of television programmes by creating a harmonised legal framework, to ensure fair conditions of competition and to safeguard the free flow of information and the free exchange of opinions within the community. the main provisions of the television directive are the principle of broadcasting nationality and free reception, the quota system, advertising, youth protection and the right to be heard. according to the report, over 1 500 television stations offering their services in the european market are based outside the eu. these television stations are therefore not bound by the european directives and can therefore act in all areas according to their own ideas. this could create a significant competitive disadvantage for eu-based television stations. that is why i abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are currently 1.5 million syrians on the run. according to the latest un estimates, that number will double by the end of the year. the refugee camps at the border are already overcrowded. i myself was able to take a picture of this during a delegation to lebanon - a depressing picture. we have increased aid, but we must also urge the entire arab league to take action, especially the gulf states, because they have also played a part in the radicalisation of the opposition. the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's economic and social problems. bahrain, saudi arabia for example, must finally take in refugees as well, and not just send weapons and money. it doesn't have to be luxury hotels, it doesn't have to be the isle of palms, some tent camps would certainly be very helpful. and we should work towards that!
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i had the opportunity, with some other colleagues from the european parliament, a few weeks ago, to visit camps and registration offices in jordan near the syrian border. we had the opportunity to have conversations, and we had a lot of conversations with refugees, with representatives of aid organizations, and with representatives of the jordanian authorities who were involved in helping refugees. the result and the conclusions we drew were very clear and unambiguous in some respects. first, what the jordanian authorities and international aid agencies are doing on the ground is simply unimaginable and amazing. we were able to fix what was needed in the short term. the first is that we should try to keep the borders open for the refugees as long as possible. the second is that it is absolutely necessary, until negotiations or a peace settlement is reached, to provide financial aid and the necessary logistical support. jordan just like the other neighbouring countries lebanon or turkey cannot be left alone in this situation. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. otherwise, aid is simply inefficient and burden-sharing will be necessary between the neighbouring countries, because we have been told unanimously that the refugees want to stay as close as possible to their homes and return as quickly as possible. the last point, which is also clear, is that every effort should be made to improve and maintain the security of the camps for the refugees who are there. in conclusion, i am convinced that arms supplies, military support for the so-called free syrian army would only lead to more violence and instability for the entire region. i am in favour of doing everything possible to achieve political solutions. it's the only chance.
i have to say, madam president, the number of refugees has reportedly increased again with the violent fighting of the past week. it is no wonder that the number of such problems is increasing in the countries concerned. the lebanese government is struggling with economic problems and is desperately trying to control the prices of goods. in jordan, syrian refugees are reportedly selling their tents to buy fresh meat, fruit, or vegetables. and in the turkish border region, tensions with the locals are growing. many are blaming the syrians for the car bombings in mid-may. in this tense situation, subtle ethnic differences between alawites, sunnis and christians can all too easily turn into open hostility and conflict. the situation of christians, who are sitting between the chairs, is particularly precarious. we must not repeat the example of iraq, where an exodus of christians has taken place after the fall of saddam's dictatorship. that is why the syrian christians in the eu need a strong advocate.
i have to say, madam president, the west is currently on track to lose all credibility and credit in the arab world, especially with previously pro-western and secular groups. this is particularly clear when you look at what the west has done in iraq. i'm not going to go into the humanitarian disaster there. the disappearance of billions of petrodollars in the west is scandal enough the billions of petrodollars that have been returned, which were misappropriated in the country by the corruption there, is a single scandal! and now we're making the same mistake again. i warn against thinking that the new governments are less corrupt than the old governments! some of the same people are still in power. i would therefore be in favour of the freezing of funds being used exclusively for our own humanitarian programmes, to prevent them from being channelled through corrupt channels: social programmes, humanitarian programmes, programmes for democratization, programmes for the rule of law and programmes for the protection of minorities, especially christian minorities, especially the copts in egypt. when we hand over the money, we have no way of controlling what happens to it. i would therefore caution against this, given the negative example of iraq.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. what are the possibilities that you see from what we have learned so far, what practical suggestions for improvement can we make here to get this crisis under control? do you have any practical suggestions on how europe could now respond to this question?
i have to say, madam president, the rulers in dictatorships are known to have a tendency to set aside funds, which end up in discreet accounts in switzerland or elsewhere. it is certainly not an easy task to locate, confiscate, confiscate and finally return these funds to the state from which they originated. this process of restitution places particular demands on the states involved. but it is much easier to overthrow a regime than to restore order afterwards. less than two years after the arab spring, disillusionment is rife. in tunisia, libya and egypt, frustration has set in because of the islamization of politics and economic stagnation. newly-arrived regimes sometimes take even harsher measures against journalists than previous ones. corruption remains, and democracy is all too often misused as a tool to create undemocratic structures. we shouldn't take it like that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have, as you know, a decentralized state in bosnia and herzegovina, where the powers of the individual are often greater than those of the central government. and while the serbs do not want to remain in bosnia and herzegovina, the bosniaks want more centralisation. these contradictions cannot be discussed or ignored. the european union has been trying for years to turn bosnia into a multiethnic state, spending billions of dollars, but it has not been able to achieve much. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the eu has contributed to the problems by unilaterally supporting the kosovo albanians. and the fact that serbs in kosovo are suffering from discrimination does not seem to bother the eu, which is so committed to human rights. the bosnian serbs are also denied the right to self-determination. the eu is also pressing for constitutional reform to force serbs into a centralised bosnian state, where they would have to live under the rule of bosnian muslims. this shortsighted policy should soon be over!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm grateful that there's this progress report. otherwise, there would be much less talk about bosnia and herzegovina. it is a very particular tragedy that with the end of the war, the level of attention has also decreased. this is not only unfortunate, it's unfair after all the victims. since dayton, this country has been in a crushing stalemate. all hopes of finding a way out of this impasse by means of a european perspective are repeatedly disappointed. but this should not lead us to abandon the idea of a multiethnic bosnia. that would mean that those who started this fatal war would be vindicated in the end. and it wouldn't solve any of the problems that this country suffers from. the situation will only change if we pay more attention to bosnia and herzegovina and exert the necessary pressure to develop new solutions. above all, we must not leave the country alone, or we will leave it to the extremists.
in writing. for all the enthusiasm for enlargement, we should not lose sight of reality: high unemployment, corruption, problems with the rule of law, and thus urgently needed reforms of the constitution, the judiciary, media laws, etc. are no secret. so we can only hope that the 600 million euros that have flowed from the eu since 2008 will be put to good use. the decisive factor will be whether the three ethnic groups are prepared to end the policy of mutual blockade and to come to a common sense of state! the increasing influence of radical fundamentalists from saudi arabia, which is already spilling over into the eu, is therefore of little help. the problems are on the table, and the high representative and eu special representative, mr inzko, should finally make progress.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you very briefly, mr president: do you really think that the citizen is so little self-determined that he might perhaps want to read the negotiating mandate in order to be informed and to be able to form his own opinion?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council will adopt the negotiating mandate on 14 june, and the first negotiations can begin from that date. i think we can all agree on this, and it has been made clear many times in the speeches of our colleagues today that this agreement can be of great benefit to europe. it is now important to ask where the two trading powers see themselves in the future. the answer is clear to me: the european union must remain a commercial and economic power, but also a provider of value. yes, there will be great obstacles to overcome. i believe that these are specifically in the field of agricultural production. but a few days ago, the us congress held a hearing on the agreement in the trade subcommittee, and across the pond, five key points were identified that will be given a lot of attention during the negotiations. that too is already known. one of the main issues was the eu's sanitary and phytosanitary measures. the representatives concluded that the european sps measures were not based on scientific evidence and were contrary to the wto. the same applies to the important geographical indications of origin of eu products. there was a lot of criticism of our origin labels and standards. i think that it is worthwhile to look across the pond now - it is worthwhile because there are fears and critical voices not only in europe. the commissioner, please take our concerns in europe seriously. and we will only give our approval to these agreements if we take account of this sensitive area of agriculture.
mr president, despite the enormous economic and financial crisis and all its problems in the past years, the european union and the united states of america are two global actors. it goes without saying that this is a very historic moment for both the eu and the us. once negotiations are in progress, both parties will understand that they benefit from this agreement. however, the way it develops is certainly the responsibility of both parties. with mutual respect for the red lines, we can look forward to the different steps in order to make it a win-win situation for both sides. i would like to draw special attention to the labour market. there is a chance for the agreement to improve the individual situation of our citizens on both continents. nonetheless, with all efforts on both sides and the views on the concerns of our citizens, the agreement can be beneficial to citizens in the eu and the us.
in writing. in 1997, the gsp preferences for myanmar/burma were temporarily withdrawn by council regulation, due to the systematic occurrence of widespread forced labour. this has been confirmed by the international labour organisation (ilo). given the significant progress made in recent years in this area, the commission proposed to repeal this council regulation and to re-establish the preferences with retroactive effect as of 13 june 2012. the restoration of these generalised preferences should allow myanmar/burma to benefit from the special benefits of the ldcs' everything but arms initiative in the gsp and to significantly increase its exports to the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this report. the main sectors affected by this preference are clothing and clothing accessories. another important point is that after 38 years of military dictatorship, myanmar/burma has indeed taken important and significant steps towards democratization.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as we have heard from danuta hübner, the president of the committee of the regions, and from commissioner de gucht, there are already many initiatives in the alpine area. we have a long tradition of cooperation going back to the 1970s, but now it is time to take the next step. we have also achieved the objective of territorial cohesion through article 174 of the treaty of lisbon. the alpine region is characterised by its very heterogeneous nature and by the fact that it has to cope with very common problems. with this request for an oral answer to the commission and with the resolution, we want to express here in parliament that it would be sensible to take this next step and in particular to coordinate better all the possibilities of cooperation that we have received from the european union, in particular through the instruments of support such as the regional fund, support for rural development, etc. let 's remember: the alpine region is a recreational area. it is a very sensitive area, and yet it is exposed to extremely high pressures - particularly from traffic and pollution and the like. it is very useful for the alpine regions to come together and, together with the european institutions, in particular the commission, to consider how things can be better coordinated. we are facing major challenges, particularly in the transport sector. and here we have to try to master it together. it is not possible that certain regions bear the brunt of the burden and others are weaker, so to speak. but we must also do our utmost in the field of biodiversity, environmental protection and so on, so that the alps can continue to play the role they are supposed to play. we should therefore try to define priorities together and involve the regional authorities more closely. of course, coordination must be at national level, but the regional units in particular are very strong in the alps, have a long tradition, a long history, and they must be brought into play more and more in order to make a strong cohesion policy. as i said, there is a great deal of heterogeneity, and the problem of displacement is particularly acute in the economic sector. some regions - for example, my home region of tyrol - have been more successful in keeping these mountain valleys inhabited. in other regions, more to the west, it is very difficult, because the valleys are characterized by being displaced and no longer providing work for young people. but here we can learn from each other and achieve much more through a common strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank all the members for the success of this joint resolution. i would also like to thank the chairman of our committee on regional development, because we have taken a step here which the people of the alpine region have actually been pursuing for almost 40 years. this is another milestone in the development of a macro-regional strategy. if we look at macro-regional strategies, the alpine region is really an example of what we have done here. we see with the baltic sea region and also with the danube region that it is a strategy that can develop very well. a lot of preliminary work has already been done here. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed in the past. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it's a very sensitive area. it is a habitat where, thank god, biodiversity still exists in large areas, but which is of course threatened by the demands of tourism, by the demands of transport, by the demands of energy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. a macro-regional strategy would be the right answer. we also have a paragraph 5 in this motion for a resolution which i would like to mention specifically because it has caused some confusion. we are of course firmly convinced that we need to concentrate on the alpine region, on the mountain region. but this cannot happen without intensive interaction with the regions, the alpine region, the subregions and, above all, the large cities. this means that this too must be a concentrated part of this strategy for the alpine region, this macro strategy. we therefore propose that we vote against paragraph 5 because it has really caused confusion here, so that exactly the approaches we need - the interaction and cooperation in the alpine region between the central area and the regional area - can take place.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first, the good news: the macro-region of the alps already exists. it has adopted a bottom-up approach, following the example of the alpine convention, and has defined its own programme, defined the territory in which it applies, and also developed a governance strategy. it is committed to the objectives of preserving cultural diversity, sustainable management, protection of the sensitive alpine region and protection of social standards in this area. the european union has unfortunately still not ratified all the protocols and all the parts of this alpine convention. that's a catch-up from my point of view. if you come and say: 'let's throw away what has been developed and make something completely new, from above, without the people, and again under the dictates of the big cities', then we are definitely going the wrong way! we in the european union talk about bottom-up strategies, we nurture them, we want them. and then we push them to the side so that something can be planted from above. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to go. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i don't know if you've deliberately misunderstood me. i said we must concentrate on the mountain regions. but there can be no concepts in the direction of tourism, transport, energy without the interaction with the surrounding regions or with the cities. i am convinced that what has happened in the past is a bottom-up principle, and that what commissioner hahn has told us, what we want in macro-regional strategies, is always a bottom-up story. i don't know where you heard in my remarks that it's a top-down strategy. would you tell me where i said that?
question for the president: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work dear eva, we are both tyrolean, but i have to support mrs kadenbach because the difficulty we have here is that the administrative structures are also concentrated in the towns of this alpine arc. so the question for you is, how do you plan to do this, both organizationally and legally? you want to move this to the community level or the district team level? the fact is, the administrations are in these cities. and i think that's why we need to define this a little bit more, first from an administrative point of view, and secondly it makes economic sense, if you think a little bit more than just the tip of your nose.
answer to two questions on the 'blue card' procedure. just because i think beyond the tip of my nose, i must also say that there are sometimes conflicts of interest. we know very well that the central alpine crest was not defined by the transport needs of the region and the tourists who come there, but by what hamburg, munich, berlin, rome or vienna thought they had to or could provide for transport. in terms of governance, there are structures within the alpine convention which can be further developed, improved and strengthened, particularly in terms of cooperation with the so-called national and regional authorities. yes, that's right! i want to! but i do not want a new structure to be built, so to speak, to push to the edge and push away what has grown from below. and sometimes i feel like that's a little bit of a background in the whole debate.
i have to say, madam president, these macro-regional associations are based on a historical link which is partly ancient. it is therefore not surprising that a successful model such as the danube macro-region is used as a model here and that the alpine region is now being used to refer to another area that was part of the former danube monarchy. in some cases, centuries-old historical identities and links are present. at the same time, however, they also represent an opportunity to overcome arbitrary divisions, such as that of the historic tyrol, which has also been cooperating with the trentino region for decades, but where now, on the basis of a new strategy, the macro-regional levels of cooperation can consolidate this cooperation and thus at least overcome an unjust division. this is of enormous importance for the preservation of identity, but also for the economic development potential of these areas. the strategy is therefore to be welcomed, especially since it is at last breathing new life into the 1991 alpine convention. it's a good frame. i am convinced that this will be a very successful and exemplary project.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr häfner, i now have to agree with mr dorfmann, but are you aware that the alpine convention is also administered from the regional capitals? you keep referring to the danube strategy. the danube strategy is really the capitals of the countries themselves making the strategies. but we have the administrative problem that somebody has to write the programs. and your general condemnation that it is against the people who live in the alps when these programmes are carried out by the cities within the framework of the structures that are there in the regions, you must explain this to me in more detail and also with examples - and, as i said, please give some concrete examples where this should not be the case.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr van nistelrooij, thank you very much for your comments. i ask you this: what is so bad about this article 5 that it must be voted down? it says that there are problems in the alpine regions: these are the melting of glaciers, these are the noise spreads. these are pressures that are simply there, and we have to find solutions to them. why do you have to paint that? is it - and this is perhaps my question in detail - because it says that the commission should not be developed for the others, i.e. from the top down, but from the bottom up, with the others? or why do you have to vote this part out? no one has ever been able to explain this to me conclusively.
i have to say, madam president, the importance and significance of the alps have been stressed on several occasions. we should bear in mind that the alps are the only high mountain range on this planet which has been completely settled throughout history - even in the regions which are already inhuman, even in the highest regions - and that the peasant settlement and agriculture in the alps are a particular factor. in recent decades, social developments, as well as environmental developments, have led to a decline in the number of farmers and a decline in the use of the alpine regions for agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the alpine regions are protected from the effects of the climate change. so, in order to continue to protect the landscape and the environment, especially in times of climate change, we must maintain and promote the agricultural settlement of the alps and counteract the tendency to move to the countryside. the alpine farmers are an essential cultural element. this must also be safeguarded in the context of a macro-regional strategy.
the commission has already done so. the news of the terrible events in bangladesh is of course alarming. the death of over 1 100 people is a tragedy not only for the families affected but for all of bangladesh. as we know, many people have died because building codes were not followed. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in response to the tragic incident, nearly 40 international textile retailers have now decided to take a very important step: working with ngos and trade unions to improve production and safety standards. this is a right and important step, because the european union and its businesses not only create jobs and contribute to economic development, but also have to be ambassadors of european values. the protection of human rights, the improvement of labour, production and environmental standards and the creation of wealth are tasks that must be undertaken. the system of generalized preferences in europe is a system which places greater responsibility on both sides - the trading partner on the one hand, but also the european union on the other. bangladesh is obliged to ratify and implement un and ilo conventions. all these efforts must also be directed at those who are ultimately consuming the products. it is they who, by their purchasing decision, approve or disapprove of the conditions of production and work in a third country. but to do that, you must be seriously enlightened and be enlightened. it must be possible to identify whether products meet un and ilo standards or not. the agreement with the nearly 40 textile dealers thus provides the opportunity for such consumer information. a label that guarantees sustainable production, fair wages and safety at work is as ambitious a step as the signed agreement itself. let us take responsibility. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that this question is closely linked to what we have been discussing for an hour today. of course these measures must be improved, and as i said, the misfortunes that have happened in bangladesh and also in cambodia have not happened because of a lack of legal bases and regulations, but because of the non-compliance with these laws, which also happens on the ground in the member states. here pressure can and must be exerted. as some speakers have already said, it is not only the low-cost companies and the low-cost chains that have produced and have had produced in these companies and factories, but also branded companies. we can certainly apply pressure here and act accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the collapse of the textile factory in dhaka at the end of april is just one of many terrible accidents which have occurred because of the systematic and consistent violation of workers' rights and safety regulations in manufacturing plants. we have discussed a similar tragedy in bangladesh here in this house only a few months ago. the european market is now the most important outlet for bangladeshi clothing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we therefore need chains of liability that make it impossible for multinational corporations to evade their responsibilities. we need social accountability for these companies on the conditions in the supplier plants, independent audits and compulsory repair and maintenance work in the factories. and above all, we need free trade unions which can really exercise their rights, which are not hindered in doing so. finally, i would like to emphasize a proposal which this house has already put forward, namely that the eu embassies - and therefore also those in bangladesh - should be contact points for complaints against eu companies. commissioner, you have spoken clearly today. you can see from the strong words of the members of this house that you have support for your clear words. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by expressing my disappointment that commissioner de gucht is no longer here. it was he who finally did it and he got the support of us greens too, who together with mrs ashton said that when rana plaza fell we had to use the gsp to ensure that subcontractors were really managed and controlled responsibly. i think he should have been here to hear this debate to the end and then to respond to our demands. one demand i share is that the european embassies in bangladesh and elsewhere should also be the focal points for complaints and lawsuits against european companies. but back to the subject: do hundreds, thousands, have to die and suffer all the time before the public is shocked enough to take action? we all want clothes - nice clothes, fashionable clothes, modern clothes - but we have to look after them, and we should look after those companies that have not signed this agreement now: birds, tally weijl, gap, walmart. we must go there and also tell them that they must improve the conditions, control of buildings, fire safety measures, etc., allow trade unions and the like. i would like to conclude by thanking the clean clothes campaign, the decent work campaign and other ngos who have been working for decades to improve working conditions and to respect the dignity of the women and men who work there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water in the country. from security regulations to minimum wage to union representation, everything is supposed to be better. we shall see to what extent these announcements are followed by action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. just think of the recent roof collapse of a factory in cambodia. the agreement signed by 37 international companies on fire and building safety in bangladesh could, in my view, be a turning point if it is actually legally enforceable and the control mechanisms work and if not only european but also us chains of commerce are involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. it is not right that multinational corporations should put pressure on low-wage countries at the expense of the people who work there and only for the sake of maximizing their own profits.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 23 may, at 12 noon. mr president, that question is not admissible at the moment, because i have closed the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the non-commercial movement of pet animals (com ((2012) 0089 - c7-0060/2012 - 2012/0039 ((cod)) (a7-0371/2012) and the report by mr horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 92/65/eec as regards animal health conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of dogs, cats and ferrets (com ((2012) 00907) - c7-0061/2012 - 2012/0040 (cod)) (a7-036/2012).
the commission has already done so. i think i just came from a meeting of the animal welfare group, and it's very important that we realize that it's not just about animal health in principle, but that animal health and human health are very closely intertwined and interact in a lot of ways. that means that we need to tighten up the rules here in terms of human and animal health, and i am very glad that this is being regulated in connection with the passports. i am also pleased that, as mrs reimers has said, it is possible to transport more than five animals across europe if the purpose of the transport is clear, but that this rule cannot be applied to young animals, to puppies, because in this way we are taking another step towards preventing the illegal trade in animals, and especially puppies. and i ask that we also transport more in public, that it is necessary to act properly with animals and not to adopt a young dog or a young cat in some parking lot out of pity from the trunk.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to congratulate mr schnellhardt because, of course, pet mobility is an important issue in the european internal market, animal health is also very important and we have already developed a great many steps here in the european framework research programme to improve prevention and diagnosis also in animals. we know that mobility is also very important in the field of breeding, racing and exhibitions. here too, the mobility of the owners of the animals is a common concern that you do not have to stop at the border and then you cannot take the animals or that there are big formalities. we know, of course, that it's also important for the blind, for the hunters, for the police, and for many other groups, to have these social contacts. and that is why it is a great step forward to open the internal market to our favourite animals and give them a chance to stay healthy in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is notoriously difficult to strike a balance between unbureaucratic freedom of movement and animal welfare when transporting pets. farmers in eastern european countries are too easily able to circumvent strict import, trade and animal welfare regulations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species of fish, which is a major problem in the fisheries sector. the lack of protection against vaccination is also causing a rise in diseases which in the west were thought to have been eradicated long ago, in countries where the animals are smuggled via the internet or even brutally taken out of the trunk. and to dry up this black market, with its estimated annual profits of 300 million euros, i believe that a serious europe-wide fight against animal smuggling is needed. and there is a need for tougher penalties for puppy smuggling and animal cruelty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the environment.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 23 may, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
more and more eu citizens are owning pets and are increasingly taking them with them on their travels. in order to make this easier in future when travelling across borders, it was time to renew the rules on the non-commercial movement of pets. now, among other things, we have achieved a significant improvement in animal health in europe and a reduction in rabies. i welcome the new rules as they concern areas of daily life and can directly benefit european citizens. in future, for example, it will be possible to transport more than five pets across borders in certain exceptional cases. i also support the introduction of a uniform passport for pets, which must clearly indicate the details. this provides clarity and simplification for all pet owners.
in writing. −the modernised customs code (mcc) was published in the official journal of the european union l 145 in april 2008 and entered into force on 24 june 2008. however, it is not yet applicable because the necessary implementing regulation is not in place. the modernisation should simplify legislation and streamline and clarify customs procedures. the first priority will be to the customs authorities and to the economic operators, who will be able to follow clear rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the customs authorities are able to comply with the requirements of the directive.
in writing. − for reasons of urgency, it is justified that the vote be taken before the expiry of the eight-week period laid down in article 6 of protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the ep takes its position by adopting the commission proposal. the ep calls on the commission to refer the matter back to it if it intends to substantially amend its proposal or replace it with another text, and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission and to the national parliaments.
in writing. − the gsp preferences granted to myanmar/burma were temporarily withdrawn by a council regulation in 1997. the reason for this was the systematic use of forced labour, which was widespread. given the significant progress made in recent years in this area, the commission proposed to repeal this council regulation and to re-establish the preferences with retroactive effect as of 13 june 2012. the restoration of these generalised preferences should allow myanmar/burma to benefit from the special benefits of the ldcs' everything but arms initiative in the gsp and to significantly increase its exports to the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - burma has made a number of progresses towards democracy in the past. this is how the elections were free and fair. it is of course important to note that not all political prisoners have been released and that the human rights situation remains worrying. i believe that while there is progress, it is not yet sufficient to justify a temporary withdrawal of the tariff preferences and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. - this report deals with the re-introduction of the generalised preferences for goods from burma/myanmar, which were withdrawn in 1997 because of the systematic use of forced labour. since 2011, burma/myanmar has been making serious efforts to open up and reform, including on forced labour. the commission report concludes that the infringements are no longer considered to be serious and that the tariff preferences should be reinstated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − when foreign direct investment (fdi) is taken into account, the eu is one of the world's largest investors. the eu has not yet concluded an agreement on foreign direct investment at eu level, but various negotiations are under way. a chapter on investment is to be integrated into eu free trade agreements. this chapter is intended to include an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism that allows investors to assert their rights against a state. i also voted for the report because the regulation proposes a dispute settlement mechanism. this mechanism regulates the sharing of the various costs of settling an investor-state dispute and the rights of defence in such a case between the eu and the member states.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty gave the union exclusive competence to conclude international investment protection agreements. it should be noted that isds procedures are possible under the energy charter even without this regulation. the question of the inclusion of isds should be assessed in any international investment protection agreement depending on the relevant framework conditions . i have therefore rejected this report.
in writing. the report on the establishment of the framework for the settlement of financial responsibility in investor-state disputes before arbitration tribunals to which the eu is a party is to be endorsed. the report was referred back to the committee for further trilogue negotiations.
in writing. − a large number of animals, especially dogs, are increasingly being brought into the eu from the eastern european countries, but also from non-european countries, in particular germany and austria. the european union has a long tradition of supporting the development of animal welfare in the eu. the eu's pet cards are often counterfeited, and vaccinations that should have been given to prevent the spread of infectious diseases have been cut back for cost reasons. i voted in favour of the report because it is time to stop the trade in animals, which brings animals into western europe with false passports and thereby encourages the spread of diseases that are thought to be eradicated.
in writing. - a newer, clearer structure and adaptation of the regulation to the changed circumstances is very welcome. safety and disease prevention are key issues, particularly in a europe of cross-border travel and goods.
in writing. - in the animal welfare sector in particular, it is becoming increasingly common for 'collective transport' to bring pets, especially dogs and cats, to western europe to be brought to the man here. often these organizations are primarily interested in financial gain rather than in the actual protection of the animals. for example, dogs, but also cats, are transported from a to b in cages that are far too small for them, for many hours, without food and with far too few breaks in between to allow them to unwind. in addition, some animals are too sick or too young to face the rigors of such transport. i support the rapporteur's proposal to extend the period of examination for animals to be tested for their fitness for transport from 24 to 48 hours. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − a legal and substantive adaptation to changed circumstances is to be encouraged in order to increase and improve the usefulness of the existing directive.
in writing. − the context of the crisis and its country-specific effects vary so much that there is no universal anti-crisis formula. but countries like iceland have shown that the eu, with its increasingly centralised tendencies, is not a safe haven in this crisis. the troika's policies have not been as successful as those of non-eu countries such as iceland in the banking and economic crisis. it is high time that the eu finally recognised the diversity of its member states as a strength and an opportunity, rather than relying on equalization and centralism. the tendency to promote constantly the very centralism which has been the cause of the crisis is extremely dangerous. the present proposal is also going in that direction, which is why i have rejected it.
in writing. - in our immediate neighbourhood, syria, one of the greatest tragedies of our time is taking place. hundreds of thousands of people are victims of violence, losing their property and their cultural and religious identity. there is no end in sight to this drama. it is therefore welcome that the eu is spending considerable resources to help the states bordering syria to cope with the gigantic flows of refugees by providing a minimum of basic services. in the long term, however, the high concentration of refugees represents a potential that further threatens the instability in the region. europe should also consider the extent to which it is not possible to accept quota refugees on the territory of the union, especially under the heading of family reunification.
in writing. − it is important to provide support to syrian refugees in this difficult time, to provide them with refuge and to combat existing human rights violations. a primary objective should be to contribute to the achievement and subsequent maintenance of peace in syria.
in writing. − the eu has repeatedly advocated eu membership for the western balkan countries. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are essential to the stabilisation and association process. there is concern about the high level of corruption and media diversity should be independent. anti-discrimination laws and policies need to be implemented and legal gaps for disabled people need to be addressed.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. these can lead to a positive outcome which will have a significant impact not only on eu-us relations but also on global economic relations. improved mutual market access, the removal of non-tariff barriers and the alignment of common rules defining common challenges and opportunities in world trade are the pillars of the future negotiations. however, the sensitive agricultural issues of gmos, hormonal meat and the different production standards cannot be ignored. i have been very vocal in supporting the inclusion of these sensitive areas in the resolution and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - in theory, one of the advantages of the european union should be to negotiate better terms together. the eu has not yet been able to prove itself in any agreement with the us. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the latter agreement is unilateral as long as existing restrictions on foreign ownership and control in the united states remain in place. the same applies to the present agreement. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - while there is understandable euphoria about burma's progress towards democracy and peace, the sense of reality must not be overlooked. yes, there has been progress; yes, the last elections were largely fair and free. the human rights situation in burma is far from rosy. in particular, there are still a large number of political prisoners in prison. that is why i cannot support this resolution.
in writing. − despite progress, the human rights situation in burma/myanmar remains precarious, particularly with regard to serious human rights violations. the reform process should be supported and it should contribute to economic, political and social development. corporate social responsibility, responsible and sustainable trade and investment can help to combat poverty and ensure that a wide range of people benefit from the measures.
in writing. the european alpine region is a sensitive natural jewel, where two things have to be combined: on the one hand, the natural features, such as numerous animal and plant species, which are protected because of their uniqueness, and on the other hand, the promotion of infrastructure and economic opportunities. the geographical overlap makes it useful to create a common cohesion policy capable of ensuring economic, social and territorial cohesion. the alpine region continues to face structural problems such as poor infrastructure or lack of transport links, which make economic growth in the area difficult. at the same time, attention must be paid to the protection of the environment, which is likely to suffer from development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − in my view, a long-term strategy promoting sustainable growth in our ‘european alpine region’ has only positive aspects at economic, environmental, social and cultural level. the macro-regional strategy, aligned to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as well, would ensure a better use of the ‘available’ resources and, at the same time, smart and inclusive development. promoting the development of the region itself will boost economic development, meaning better infrastructure and territorial cooperation (and on a secondary level, the creation of new employment opportunities).
in writing. the collapse of the textile factory in the rana plaza building in dhaka, bangladesh, is the worst tragedy in the history of the textile industry. 1,100 people were killed, and about 2,500 were injured. the situation in such textile factories is often difficult and safety is often neglected. these incidents tragically reveal the inadequate safety standards in manufacturing plants. the improvement of ilo labour standards and the strengthening of respect for the principles of corporate social responsibility (csr) are urgently needed. i am a supporter of the rights and safety of workers in bangladesh and that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. - it is understandable that an impoverished country, where the textile industry is the most important industrial sector, should be able to cope with this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the buildings is not compromised. it remains to be seen to what extent the reforms now announced will be followed by action. the recent agreement on fire and building safety in bangladesh could be a turning point. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for the opportunity to say a few words. it is a little strange, of course, that we come here to have a debate, expect to have a debate today and then have it dropped. that's the one. the second is that we obviously cannot vote correctly here, as you have suggested, mr president, because i do not know whether every member has a voting card. if you are going to vote, it would be fair if you said that there is already an electronic vote during the debate, rather than pointing out to us that the debate is now being voted electronically. if we are going to vote on the proposal, then at least we should make the effort to vote by hand and not electronically. it's only fair.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is a little strange that we are allowed to discuss human rights abuses in india here today, but we are not allowed to speak when human rights abuses are discussed in the united states of america. very strange for me and not fair! now, i want to say first of all that i, of course, reject these horrible events in mumbai and i have the utmost sympathy with the victims. however, the execution of mr guru, a radical muslim, will probably, i fear, be the trigger for further unrest in the crisis region of his home country of kashmir. the kashmir region in particular is a religious time bomb and, moreover, a safe haven for terrorists. i don't want to recommend anything to india today. i don't want to judge anyone today. but i would ask you to consider whether executions, which are obviously in response to the popular anger of the hindu population, are really the right means and not the creation of new martyrs. india should consider whether the death penalty can actually ease ethnic conflicts. i believe that the disputed border region requires a willingness to dialogue and to combat social ills, not a battle of swords!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. victoire ingabire, leader of an opposition party, was accused of genocidal ideology and sectarianism, among other charges. the prosecution was based solely on the public demand for the prosecution of war crimes committed by rwanda. it is clear that the facts are only used to silence the opposition and thereby restrict freedom of expression. in addition, the outcome of the proceedings in politically motivated proceedings is already determined in advance. the defendants are not getting a fair trial. the eu must therefore act in a united manner and also exert pressure on the granting of development aid, because as a signatory to the cotonou agreement, rwanda is clearly violating international law in this case.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, i would ask that you grant this request. i want to be completely honest with you . mr pargneaux was very close to pierre mauroy and would like to attend his funeral. i would therefore ask that this be postponed. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. i ask for a postponement to july.
mr president, i think this is a valid request. i have already spoken on behalf of my group and written letters to the commission asking that this issue be given special attention. it is important, and it was also stated in our resolution, that data protection is an important aspect, particularly in a situation where we are rightly negotiating an agreement with the united states on investment and trade. if we want to be clear, it's very important that we tell the american people right now, right from the beginning, what's important to us. some might say we're a little fast. but it would not be so bad if parliament reacted quickly. i know the commission - i am sure the commissioner who is here is also - is certainly fully informed and is able and willing to give information relatively quickly on the principles of how we should proceed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against organized crime is like the fight against a hydra: for every arm cut off, new ones grow. the police can at best be a little slow in spying on bank fraud - whether the bank details are being monitored by video, by atm or on the internet. it's all too rare for a hit to work against the well-disguised mob bosses. while the eu has already tackled the problem of betting manipulation in sport in order to break up the mafia structures more effectively, problems such as criminal tourism are being overlooked. the growing wealth gap in europe and the disappearance of border controls is giving communities near borders, well connected by motorways, an upsurge in gangs. it is also clear that the chances of catching the perpetrators are greater if a border is guarded. the commission must finally accept this, instead of seeing the desire of the population, which has been plagued by a series of break-ins, for more border controls as an anti-european affront. it must finally and effectively prevent eu funding from ending up in the hands of the mafia on a large scale.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the financial crisis and austerity policies must not be used as excuses for lowering existing standards in the field of labour law and worker protection. on the contrary, i am. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this will not unduly distort the conditions of competition between member states and will reduce social dumping. but it is not just about adopting some minimum standards. these must be of a certain level and quality and be suitable for contributing to social progress in europe. the new emf directive represents a step forward in the field of worker protection by virtue of the limit values. however, exceptions to the exposure values are now established for certain sectors or activities. however, great caution is required when applying this exception. the different application of this provision in the various member states must not lead to different levels of protection for the workers concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we all know, the human body is a good conductor of electricity. therefore, high-intensity electromagnetic fields, which are used in a wide range of industrial and medical applications, can have health effects. in the worst case, it is known that a major discharge of electrically insulated charged objects can cause severe shock effects on grounded persons, up to life-threatening heart palpitations. potential effects depend, of course, on the type of field and the duration of exposure, as well as distance. the technical shielding is not only extremely costly but often not feasible. thus, increasing the distance to the field source remains the simplest and most effective protection measure. the eu directive based on the exposure limit values set by the international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection in 1998 has been undermined in some countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to radioactive substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. social investment is a key element in getting back on the path of growth and employment. we need them now, in this crisis. i would like to mention just one specific subject, but one which is all the more crucial, namely the fight against youth unemployment. a social investment pact can help to give young people in europe better prospects and prevent a lost generation. but it is not enough to keep this pact separate from other policies. social investment is to be included in the european semester. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. commissioner, what has happened to the 2020 objectives? good, committed targets, but they stall because there is no adequate control mechanism. so with your help, commissioner, we should go back in that direction so that social policy becomes an integral part of all policy areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that in the wake of the recent sovereign debt crisis, caused by the failure of monetary union, we have a frightening phenomenon, namely mass youth unemployment, particularly in some of the crisis-affected countries in the south of the european union. this is a terrifying thing and we must fight it with all the means at our disposal. and if this social package is even remotely capable of curbing youth unemployment, then we should be fine with it. but as we fight these phenomena, we also need to be honest with ourselves and recognize that much of what is portrayed as social unrest in the media today has a different background. when social unrest breaks out in the suburbs of major european cities, for example in paris, london or, more recently, stockholm, it is often unrest caused by young people with a massive immigrant background. that is, there is a cultural dimension to the social dimension. and those who have favoured this mass immigration, who have created these ghettos, must ask themselves whether they are not responsible for the social conditions we have to fight against today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, would you be comfortable with a u.s. intelligence officer following you around 24 hours a day, recording and analyzing your behavior? no, you wouldn't agree! but that's exactly what's happening in the digital space 24 hours a day. if you don't believe that, you can now get official confirmation from us president barack obama. the european parliament is here to defend and protect fundamental rights. it is therefore important that we finally put pressure on the american government to end the prism programme. it is also a shame that mrs ashton, our foreign minister, has not even commented on this matter. we need an investigation into this scandal. we need to find out which intelligence agencies are involved. we need to find out if europol got that data. we should invite the american representatives here so that they can give us an accounting. this can't go on!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs karima delli, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social housing in the european union (2012/2293 (ini)) (a7-0155/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs licia ronzulli, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the educational and vocational mobility of women in the eu (2013/2009 (ini)) (a7-0164/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on improving access to justice: legal aid in cross-border disputes (com (2012) 0071 - 2012/2101 (ini)) (a7-0161/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr oldřich vlasák, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on regional policy as part of wider state aid schemes (2013/2104 (ini)) (a7-0204/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr jim higgins, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a strategy for a european electronic toll service and vignette system for light private vehicles in europe (com ((2012) 0474 - 2012/2296 (ini)) (a7-0142/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june, at 11.30 a.m.
i have to say, madam president, the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs would like to thank you very much for this document. the commission has also made a number of proposals for the development of the information society. the parents, the mothers who buy these products, must not be misled, but must really know what they are feeding their children. i would therefore ask you to consider the matter of pesticides. we need food for infants and young children that is absolutely pesticide-free. in terms of weight and nutrition, children are really the most vulnerable people at this stage of life. that means we consume a lot of food in proportion to our body weight. i would therefore ask you once again - even though the commissioner has already tried to calm us down a little today - to pay particular attention to this very point in future. pesticides must not be present in food for children, nor must there be any residues of such pesticides.
in writing. in recent decades, more and more people have been observed to be dependent on special diets. this phenomenon must not lead some food producers to regard it as pure business and mislead consumers. i therefore call for strict rules on the labelling of speciality foods. in future, it should be avoided that cereal bars, for example, are mistakenly labelled as dietary products. special attention must also be paid to baby food. we need to make sure that infants and young children get the best food for them. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i therefore support the future ban on misleading photographs and advertising of baby food which manipulate consumers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what would you say if a u.s. intelligence officer were tracking you 24 hours a day, recording, storing and analyzing your activities? you would certainly not agree with that! but that's exactly what's happening in the digital space every day, 24 hours a day, for millions of people. we, this house, are responsible for ensuring that fundamental rights are protected. this program violates basic rights. but what do we do? we are constantly being duped by the american authorities, whether it is swift data or pnr data. this can't be happening! it is time that we finally took the reins, that we finally took responsibility and that we put pressure on to end this programme! we should launch an investigation to see what the legal implications of this programme are, which european intelligence services are benefiting from this data. is europol benefiting from this? we should also invite american representatives to this house so that they can finally give us an accounting. the way we are going right now is straight out of free democracy!
in writing. it is welcome that the european parliament is dealing with the prism scandal which came to light last week. the events, which clearly took place outside the legal framework and in violation of international agreements, constitute a serious breach of trust and discriminate against european citizens as against those of the united states. it is striking that the same actors are involved in this scandal who are currently trying to water down the data protection reform being discussed at european level with a great deal of information. the prism scandal above all shows that we need a strong data protection regulation. the european union has a duty to protect the personal data of european citizens. the principle must be that companies operating in the eu may only transfer data to third countries if the exchange of data is explicitly regulated by international agreements or bilateral legal assistance. in any event, the competent data protection authorities shall also be consulted. edward snowden, who has informed the public of these heinous acts, deserves our respect and our esteem.
the commission has already done so. when the question arose in this house a few years ago of the possibility that this fund and these resources could not be made available any longer, i was appalled. i'm so happy that a way has been found to help the poorest of the poor. we cannot at the moment engage in a debate in europe which calls solidarity in general into question. we must help the poorest of the poor. we must contribute to this redistribution in europe. we must contribute to justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it must also be a common european concern in the context of the 2020 strategy. i was therefore all the more appalled to hear a leading conservative politician from austria say yesterday: 'the north is feeding the south of europe.' we must not even think in that direction. it's very important that we say we need solidarity, we need to help. i therefore believe that this ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009 will require adjustments in several areas under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted in favour of this report to ensure that this is the case.
in writing. - this report deals with the question of amending a regulation to provide greater legal certainty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road.
in writing. − a new european consumer policy agenda would have the advantage of being better adapted to some of the new problems that have arisen, such as computerised flight booking systems. however, this agenda would be another delegation of powers to brussels and austria could have a say in even fewer political and economic issues, such as consumer protection policy in this case. in addition, this brussels centralisation is not adapted to all member states in the same way, for example consumer behaviour is heterogeneous in the various eu member states. the report does not, however, deal with this at all. i have abstained because of the fundamental benefits of the report, but also because of the many disadvantages it entails for the independence of austrian politics and thus for our country.
in writing. − this report looks at european consumer protection policy for the period 2014-2020. ensuring food safety, health, energy security, financial and online products should be a top priority on the european consumer agenda. the consumer agenda is necessary to reduce inequalities between consumers and to contribute to a low-carbon economy. of the eu's 500 million inhabitants, some 80 million (including 19 million children) cannot afford basic necessities, and inequalities in access to food and basic social services are increasing. the eu has a long history of food waste, and the eu is currently producing more than 90 million tonnes of food each year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of children against the dangers of exposure to chemical substances.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec aims to ensure that less well-off members of society also have access to the courts in other member states. the court of justice has also held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment is not a fundamental principle of community law. the classification may vary from one member state to another. the thresholds and guidelines for the granting of legal aid also vary from one member state to another. the proposal that the applicant should have the choice between applying for legal aid in the member state of residence or in the member state of the proceedings is not without problems. for example, it does not prevent language barriers. it will also be difficult for the authorities of one member state to verify in another member state the existence of certain conditions (such as social conditions) which must be met in that state in order to receive legal aid. that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the report deals with the reform of directive 2003/8/ec, which aims to improve legal protection for union citizens by facilitating legal aid in foreign member states. it also aims to increase the efficiency of regional authorities by centralising those procedures and thus giving officials the opportunity to gain experience. the rapporteur's proposal is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. - infringements of intellectual property rights are a growing problem for european economies. in particular, product piracy, which also has negative effects on the health of the european population - for example, medicines or car parts are counterfeited - is a major problem for the eu. on the one hand, the recommendation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities is therefore a possible method of combating such infringements. for example, the use of trade names and designs would be increased. the destruction of counterfeit products by customs would also be made easier and legitimate traders would be given more support. on the other hand, this legislative resolution is too short-sighted, as it does not address the core of the problem. as long as there is a demand for such products - and there will be for a long time to come, since piracy can, for example, buy luxury goods that are true to the original at a fraction of the original price - such superficial measures will not help. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. − the protection of intellectual property is of central importance, and measures such as a legal basis for the rapid exchange of information, provisions for data collection and the establishment of a uniform procedure are welcome. accordingly, the report is to be welcomed and the council's position adopted at first reading.
in writing. − protection against pesticides, particularly in the production of baby food, and the establishment of criteria for food for infants and young children and other sensitive areas (especially medical food) is strongly recommended. the protection, preservation and priority of food safety and the health of infants and young children. in particular, in times of increasing allergy incidence, gluten intolerance would also be a factor to consider.
in writing. − high intensity electromagnetic fields, which are used in a wide range of industrial and medical applications, can have health effects. potential effects depend, of course, on the type of field, the duration of exposure and also the distance. the eu directive based on the exposure limit values set by the international commission for the protection of non-ionizing radiation in 1998 has been undermined in some countries. the limit values should therefore be adjusted where necessary and research should be intensified, including in the area of mobile phone radiation. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. this report deals with the direct and indirect short-term adverse effects on the health of workers and their protection against the risks arising from physical effects (electromagnetic fields). the health and safety of workers must be a priority. the employer is obliged to take the necessary measures to eliminate or reduce to a minimum the risk of exposure to electromagnetic fields at the workplace.
in writing. the rapporteur's proposal for a regulation aims to ensure the conservation and the responsible fishing of cod stocks. it hopes that this will improve control and transparency of fishing methods and stocks, thereby preventing overfishing. for reasons of sustainability and environmental protection, this project should be approved.
in writing. - it is far too rare for a hit to be successful against the well-disguised mafia bosses in bucharest and other metropolises. and while the eu has already taken extra measures to tackle the pandemic of betting fraud in sport in order to break up the mafia structures more effectively, problems such as criminal tourism are being overlooked. the growing wealth gap in europe and the disappearance of border controls are giving communities close to the border, well connected by motorways, an upsurge in gangs. the spanish are poor at the moment, and they are already in crisis. there's still a lot of work to be done here. i regret that i cannot agree with the report.
in writing. - the objectives and approaches to combating organised crime mentioned by the rapporteur are very well thought out and in any case welcome. the commission's approach is based on a holistic approach, which takes into account not only the mafia structures themselves but also the whole environment of organised crime. for example, the approach of ridding public authorities of all corruption is well suited to combating organised crime from various directions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies is based on the principle of proportionality.
in writing. - the worsening economic and euro crisis has certainly led to a deterioration in the situation of social housing. as the report rightly points out, the needs vary between member states. there are also regional variations in the member states (urban and rural areas, urban centres, suburbs, etc.). with regard to the above-mentioned overcrowding of housing, it should be noted that this problem mainly affects immigrants or people with a migrant background. social housing is also becoming more important in relation to old age poverty. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this is a matter of national competence. any transfer of powers through the back door to the eu must therefore be strictly rejected.
in writing. − in my view it is first the duty of a member state – i.e. not the eu’s duty – to ‘take care’ and offer better ‘living standards’ to all of its citizens, including homeless people and materially deprived households with children. by investing in 'social housing programmes', a country defends the fundamental right of its people to live in adequate conditions. secondly, it contributes to a country’s economic growth by generating new investments (e.g. construction, renovation of buildings, efficient energy industry – green jobs) and creating new (local) employment opportunities. i believe that adequate and secure housing should be a precondition in every member state in order to achieve social justice, cohesion and to tackle social exclusion and poverty. as already mentioned, it is first the duty of the member state to ensure the welfare of its people. the eu should interfere in these matters only if member states fail to achieve their set ‘social objectives’. acting in another way would mean breaking the eu agreement as stated in the european union treaty (article 5), meaning acting against the subsidiarity principle.
in writing. − one objective of the europe 2020 strategy is to raise the overall eu employment rate to 75% for women and men aged between 20 and 64. secondly, the eu wishes to have greater 'occupational mobility' across the member states. in my opinion, both objectives should be achieved. beyond that, member states should continue their work and efforts with regard to 'equal treatment' strategies, policies and laws. i strongly believe that ‘rights’ should be the same for all citizens, without taking gender into consideration. in my opinion, equality among women and men should be addressed in a large number of areas - employment conditions, labour market requirements and access conditions, and education. all 'gender boundaries' should be eliminated. by combining increased investments in human capital – especially for women, who are still suffering from discrimination – with more and better education and information access (for women), employment rates and (female) productivity would increase, having, generally, a positive impact on the economy (and gdp).
in writing. − the rapporteur points out shortcomings of the eets and offers sensible solutions to ensure and accelerate the rapid and efficient implementation of the eets. the aim of this system is to promote the 'user-polluter' principle.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i am pleased that after five years of negotiations we are finally on the right track. in future, there will be uniform, fast and fair asylum procedures throughout europe. we can see this when we look at the individual regulations and directives in the asylum package. there will be quick decisions on whether someone gets asylum or not. this will help those who really need protection and will also make it possible to combat abuse. the dublin regulation makes it clear that the first country of contact is and remains responsible for the handling of cases, and we have an early warning system to complement this. the eurodac regulation helps to identify asylum seekers clearly and quickly and also to avoid multiple applications and thus abuse. the admission and procedure directives help us to conduct fast and safe procedures in accordance with uniform procedures throughout europe. in sum, i believe and am convinced that this asylum package has indeed succeeded in making a very big step forward, namely towards uniform, rapid and secure asylum procedures in the interests of those who really need help because they are on the run. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr pirker, you are welcome. i just want to ask you a quick question. could you not have taken the initiative of holding a referendum in austria in advance, as in switzerland, so that we could have discussed some important points in our own country beforehand and perhaps also set out our own clear ideas?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we have now, thank god, spent a relatively long time having an intensive discussion. this debate has been held in all the member states. i am glad that there has been a very intensive discussion about all these asylum schemes in austria as well. if we now have an agreement, then this agreement for these new uniform, fast and fair asylum procedures and also for combating abuse is in fact based on what has also been brought by the population in the many discussions. it is not necessary, therefore, to hold such a referendum, but i am convinced that when the people of austria see the consequences of these new directives and regulations, they will have a broad approval of the decisions and decisions taken here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is generally to be welcomed that after such a long period of negotiation, an agreement has finally been reached on the asylum package. this means a significant improvement in legal certainty and a fairly uniform level of regulation. such a step is overdue. of course, this will not permanently solve the present problems. on the one hand, there is a prevailing view that focuses primarily on the difficulties and problems and ignores possible positive opportunities. on the other hand, a level of protection is being introduced which in many countries is below what is already the standard in individual member states. even if they are not obliged to lower their standards, it is possible that the power of the factual will lead to this over time. this is particularly true of the possibility of detaining asylum seekers under certain conditions or of free access to health systems. if we adopt this package today, it will be with the understanding that we are also preparing a new asylum package.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with 330,000 asylum seekers a year - that is the population of cities like trieste, nice or bonn - it is certainly appropriate to check carefully whether there is asylum eligibility and whether the allegations made are true. there is nothing against eu minimum standards. but it must also be possible for member states to carry out more rapid and rigorous checks in compliance with international conventions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of residence is not subject to restrictions. i also congratulate switzerland, which recently held a referendum, which unfortunately we do not have in this case. switzerland has adopted very clear, strict regulations. the mere fact that a decision has to be taken within 100 days is a qualitative improvement compared to the situation in the union, where asylum procedures take six months. in conclusion, i find it very worrying that access to the labour market is being made possible after only nine months. this opens the door to cheap labour and wage dumping.
in writing. eu asylum rules are hardly better than hypocrisy and irresponsibility. in practice, the plans are nothing more than an invitation to the third world to pack their bags and come to europe. if asylum procedures are to last just six months longer under eu rules, it is to be expected that more southern countries will, like italy, hand pseudo-asylum seekers a few hundred euros and irregular passports or residence permits and then simply send them on to the northern states. in addition, the new rules - which are mainly designed to protect the asylumseeker community and in no way serve the interests of the local population - will lead to more trafficking gangs focusing on the so-called 'anchor children' trick. and if asylum seekers are to gain access to the labour market after nine months, domestic workers will be put under further pressure. and this in times of rising unemployment, which is hardly to be surpassed in irresponsibility. the eu's external border is still as porous as swiss cheese and is being undermined from within. common eu asylum rules are only meaningful if they effectively stop the mass immigration of economic refugees and if agreements such as dublin are actually respected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i cannot agree with the celebration of this schengen report. the commission is making some positive progress, such as the proposal to improve the security of the eu's external border, which with its loopholes is more like a swiss cheese than a secure border. that's a good thing. but i think it is absolutely wrong that the decision to re-establish internal border controls should now be bureaucratized and that the right to introduce these controls should be largely taken away from the member states. this is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states. the commission must now be consulted through a bureaucratic procedure, the so-called dialogue with the neighbouring countries must be initiated, etc. this will either lead to nothing or it will be too late, because illegal immigrants will certainly not wait patiently at the border for brussels to decide to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not the first time that italy has used irregular residence permits, which may be a misunderstanding, a generous interpretation of visas for tourist purposes or a deliberate provocation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected. this also threatens the failure of the schengen system as a whole. greece, italy and malta still appear to be failing to secure the eu's external borders adequately. and the eu does not want to get its hands dirty on social tourism. it is no wonder that schengen newcomers often become weaker or more exhausted after they have been admitted. but also at home, in many regions of europe, we are faced with rising crime, particularly in the face of the social imbalances exacerbated by the euro crisis. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for having produced such a good report, and also the commissioner for having put forward these proposals in such a way. last but not least, i would like to thank the ngos who have worked so hard to get us to discuss these issues and to vote on them. the compromise package allows the european union to shed more light on the hitherto obscure paths of oil, gas and mineral companies' payments to third country governments for mining rights. it's about fighting corruption, bribes, regimes that take, companies that pay. i welcome these amendments for two main reasons. on the one hand, european corporations are being encouraged to disclose their payments, which shows the financial influence of corporations on governments of mostly poorer but resource-rich third countries. on the other hand, it can be used to detect misappropriation of funds by members of the government of third countries. this is important for the achievement of development policy objectives. payments above eur 100 000 must now be disclosed. the abolition of the exception to disclosure where third countries prohibit it by national criminal law is now really a huge success. multinational corporations often have such a great deal of influence over less democratically organised governments that such an exception could at best be created under their pressure. but the biggest added value i see is that these schemes make it more likely that governments will use the money in a more meaningful way, for the benefit of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was a difficult birth! it was only at the very end that we saw the light at the end of the tunnel, because the council's resistance to our demands for transparency was not going to end at the beginning. my colleagues, whom i thank for their constructive work, have already said that we wanted to get european companies, but also american companies - and i will come back to this - to provide clear and precise evidence of what the payments were for. it's for prevention purposes. because we must be concerned today with preventing corruption and tax evasion. these are very big tasks that we are facing. the honourable member has been in close contact with the members of the us house who have been discussing the same subject in parliament, and we have reached similar arrangements. this is a very important step forward for us, because it enables us to identify a large number of companies which are active worldwide and have caused great damage, especially in non-european countries which are not yet so developed and present on the world stage. that this transparency includes, clearly stating where payments go and which government gets how much is a first step. of course, other issues would also have been on the agenda in parliament, such as a report on how security forces are paid, how transport routes are financed, how transport is financed, because that too is a huge loophole for corruption. the fact that these reports have to be made separately according to projects also makes it clear that it is no longer so easy to disguise where money is going. the tyrant's clause, which the council wanted to introduce as a back door, has already been discussed by my colleagues. the big mining and extracting industries have lobbied hard to prevent this report from coming out in this form. parliament has clearly won the case. i'm very happy about that. we have taken a first step, but we should also go further. i agree with commissioner barnier that environmental and social responsibility should not only apply to these industries but to all the major economic operators, because only in this way can we actively combat tax evasion and corruption in the long term. without knowledge, there is no power! we create knowledge, let us use power!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. whether it was the greek taxi driver who drove me to the airport to fly to the netherlands, or the dutch woman who led me through a troubled area in utrecht, i was angry at national governments, but also at europe. i do not share the political views of the greek colleague who spoke earlier. but i am shocked that public radio and television stations in greece are being closed down overnight, and i am shocked that this is again due to the troika, at least in the eyes of the public. (applause from the centre) therefore, vice-president rehn, stop the troika. stop the troika, this is the best thing you can do for europe and for the image of europe. stop it now. the imf is apologizing more and more for what you are doing in the troika. why do you still have the troika? you are not in agreement, you are in disagreement! stop it, will you? you are the responsible commissioner, you are responsible to parliament! this has nothing to do with democracy. i repeat, i stand in solidarity with the people who are taking to the streets in greece today to protest against this closure. what does this have to do with democracy, when people have more or less the feeling that there are those coming from brussels and blocking our radio and television? but this is the reality you must see, but unfortunately you do not want to see! but there is another europe! this is a europe with a social dimension. i hope that the commission will come forward with very concrete proposals in a few days' time. it is this other europe, which has a social dimension in addition to economic and monetary union, that gives people hope that a europe will come that will also satisfy their legitimate wishes. the president has said some things about youth unemployment. yeah, there's some good stuff in there. we need more. we need to make people feel that we are not just looking at budget deficits, that we are not just looking at economic and macroeconomic balances and imbalances - that is important - but that there are social imbalances as well. europe is more socially unequal today than it was five years ago. that is one reason, mr president barroso, why people are saving more, because they have no hope and no confidence in europe to help them get back to growth and jobs. it's not that surprising. we must deal with this in the next few days. i regret, on the one hand, that the council is not able - it was known that elections were to be held in germany - to implement this agenda in the context of economic and monetary union. but there is at least the possibility that if we really do get there, we can also integrate the social dimension and we can also integrate the question of employment policy accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this connection i want to address the irish presidency. they are not listening now, but perhaps they could listen, because i want to address the irish presidency, not you personally but as a representative. we are deeply disappointed by the way the budget discussion is taking place. we are therefore deeply disappointed by the irish presidency. perhaps it is not your personal mistake, perhaps there are some member states which do not give you the leverage and the possibility to act. yesterday was the same old story: the irish presidency wanted to adopt a conclusion and we said at the beginning that it was not possible. you are not moving towards a compromise with the european parliament; that is true. we accept the numbers, we accept so many conditions against our resolutions, but you are not moving. you have to move if you want to finalize negotiations; you have to move otherwise there can be no agreement. there can certainly be no agreement on the basis of what you have presented so far. this parliament cannot accept, for example, youth unemployment, a subject so dear to us all. i agree with the president: there are many meetings being held now, but where is the action? so we demand a frontloading, we demand that special funding is given for 2014 and 2015, but we have to have flexibility for the subsequent period. we cannot say that we will spend all of this small sum of eur 6 billion in two years, and then for the rest say "we will see". we need the flexibility, we need a revision clause to ensure funding for the subsequent period, because i cannot believe and neither can you that after two years we will no longer have major unemployment in europe. what we are doing now is just a drop in the ocean important drops maybe but we need a real fight against youth unemployment, and therefore we need a real budget. be sure of one thing: this parliament will not find a majority. i must say that you do a good job with many legislative acts, but until now you have failed on the budget. i hear that there will be last chance on 18 june, let's take it, and let's do so very seriously. there are many other issues, and i agree with mr daul and the president with regard to banking union. we have an important job to do here because we have to provide credit to the smes, the eib has to make a real change, and we have to have a reasonable budget, in particular for the fight against youth unemployment. otherwise, all we want to do to fight against youth unemployment is make yet more declarations. we do not want words; we want action. many citizens feel that europe is broken, but we have to fix it. we can fix it, but only with a reasonable budget. we are ready. i hope that the council is ready too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the french president hollande has announced that the crisis is over. it is indeed conceivable that until the elections in germany it will be pretended that this crisis has been overcome. the truth is that the crisis will certainly become more acute after the german parliamentary elections and it will become clear that the eu - and this time the council will not change anything - is relatively helpless in facing this crisis. the european union is not a single institution, but it is a single institution, and it is not a single institution. as far as youth unemployment is concerned, the eu is under the illusion that it is just a social problem. but if we look at what is happening in sweden and in other suburbs of european cities, it is also a problem of the migrant society. it is not just european young people who are unemployed here, but also young people with a migrant background. the eu denies this cultural dimension and the council will probably not be able to find an answer to it either.
in writing. the invisible hand of the eu, but the market, is far more suited to boosting growth and tackling youth unemployment. the distribution of funds and master plans by a central committee is historically proven often enough to achieve little. with more growth, the eu has almost pulverized everything. the ecb has made monetary policy ineffective for too long by maintaining a zero-interest-rate policy. the states are broke. expansionary fiscal policy is hardly possible. and legislative changes of a structural nature are not tackled for lack of courage. the supposed salvation is sought in the ttip with the usa. all these are signs of the council's confusion. i therefore see little potential for centralised induction of growth. it is precisely this courage that is needed at national level for structural change. but this will to act is suppressed by the ecb's alleged policy of rescuing or, better, delaying. the council naturally plays a major role in this. so stop the bailout policy, build up national compulsion to act, and the necessary reforms will come of their own accord!
in writing. – the upcoming council meeting is in my view a crucial one – we still do not have a solution to our budgetary situation: there is no progress concerning the mff! yes, we need flexibility and own resources, but we also need the revision clause. how can the next parliament be expected to accept not having a say on the budget for the next seven years? our priorities, also those of the council, should be to deal with the still high unemployment rate in the european union and therefore to create jobs and invest in growth and education, and to tackle the standstill in the european union. if anyone is of president hollande’s opinion, i am convinced this is the wrong message. the euro crisis is not behind us. it is of crucial importance to stand together. now we all have to solve the problems in the individual member states, and this starts in my view with balanced budgets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of appointing mr neven mimica as the new commissioner after he had successfully completed the european parliament hearing, had been nominated by croatia for this post and no other reasons had been put forward at the meeting against his appointment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my predecessor, mrs angelilli. we cannot justify any longer to the european public, to the citizens, that we have a seat here in strasbourg, but that the entire european institutions are concentrated in brussels. so if we want to enhance the political importance of this parliament, we should start by concentrating the seat in brussels. i think it is an absolute anachronism, which is entirely in the interests of the french state, that we are still travelling back and forth between brussels and strasbourg with a huge travelling circus, which is incredibly expensive and a complete waste. i think that mrs angelilli is quite right. i therefore call for it to be made ever clearer and for it to be made clear to the french government that this seat here in strasbourg will not be maintained in the long term.
in writing. the report deals with the introduction of an (improved) evaluation mechanism for the schengen area. the proposed development would be very welcome in the form proposed by the rapporteur, since it is based on trust, transparency, consistency and strengthening the community in the light of the objectives of the european union.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will require certain legal acts to be adapted to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i am a supporter of sustainable management of our oceans and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the fight against and prevention of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is of key importance to protect and preserve marine biodiversity. the amendments proposed by the commission complement and improve the existing regulation, add to the eu institutions' capacity to act more quickly and thus help to make the fisheries regulation more enforceable. it is appropriate to limit the delegation of power by a period and to regularly evaluate its usefulness; the report was adopted unanimously.
in writing. − the 'reception conditions directive', directive 2003/9/ec of 27 january 2003 laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states, is to be recast. the commission criticises the fact that the original directive would now give member states a wide margin of discretion in determining the benefits of inclusion at national level. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the social security system, which is currently being examined by the european parliament. the decision on the amount and extent of support for asylum seekers is a matter for national competence, as is the decision on whether the conditions for support are met. the eu must not take these back door and soften important existing principles which are intended to prevent asylum tourism. the present proposal must therefore be rejected in its entirety.
in writing. - the dublin regulation only works on paper. how else can we explain the huge numbers of asylum applications in those eu countries with a strong social system, surrounded by eu countries alone? and the system is still being torpedoed by individual states. the fact that italy, for example, is disposing of its troublesome asylum seekers, whom it can no longer control in the face of the flood of migrants, by irregularly issuing tourist visas and financing their onward travel to other eu countries, clearly shows the limits of the agreement. in many cases, returning to the country of origin does not work either. the dublin regulation is thus increasingly turning out to be nothing more than a tranquilizer for the common people of the community. the eu's pathways are also increasingly used to open the eu's doors even wider to mass immigration, to torpedo all the already scarce possibilities for return and to strip the nation states of even more powers. in this sense, the present proposal is once again contrary to the interests of the indigenous population and, therefore, like similar proposals, it must be rejected in the strictest terms.
in writing. the eu's common asylum standards are to be rejected in a decisive way. the whole system of rules is marked by the handwriting of good humanity. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of asylum seekers who are in need of international protection. the eu's asylum rules are hardly better than hypocrisy and irresponsibility. in practice, the plans are nothing more than an invitation to the third world to pack their bags and come to europe. in principle, a uniform eu asylum law cannot be rejected, but only if it is based solely on the interests of the european peoples. as long as there is no willingness within the eu to have robust rules against the abuse of asylum, the issue of asylum must remain the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis, which has been ongoing for years, has led to some eu citizens and their families living hand to mouth. while the banks are being bailed out with billions for their misguided speculations, there is less and less money available for the people hit by poverty in the face of the austerity budgets. i voted in favour of the proposal on the basis that the funds from the fund would actually benefit the most poverty-stricken members of the indigenous population of the european union.
in writing. - i am in favour of the european fund for aid to the most deprived and i voted for its financial increase. the fund is an important sign of solidarity and commitment to human dignity. the expiry of the food aid programme for deprived groups, which has been in force since 1987, calls for a new instrument for those who are suffering most from the effects of the financial and economic crisis. after all, in 2011, 120 million europeans - 25 million of them children - were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. over 40 million people in the eu suffer from severe material poverty, meaning they do not have access to food in sufficient quantity or quality. the european fund for aid to the most deprived cannot be a substitute for policies to combat structural poverty, but it is urgently needed in view of the dramatic development of poverty.
in writing. − the fund for european aid for the most deprived is a project i fully support. it addresses people who find themselves at risk of material and food deprivation (homeless, materially deprived children and households with children) and its objective is to improve the lives of this category of people, to simply offer them better living conditions. above and beyond the financial support given to people in need, it is a project that highlights and calls on our human values, such as in dignity and solidarity for our citizens. in the end, the final vote was postponed.
in writing. - the work on the establishment of 'eurodac' for the comparison of fingerprints for the purpose of the effective application of the dublin convention has taken far too long. the alignment of the it management framework with the sis ii regulation and the vis regulation and the changed operational management requirements of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice have required a great deal of time and money. it is hoped that the member states' law enforcement authorities and europol will finally be able to access the eurodac central database without any problems for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences, while respecting all data protection provisions. i voted for eurodac because i hope it will help to curb rampant crime and the influx of economic asylum seekers.
in writing. - i believe that there is a need for special precautions in law enforcement access to eurodac. nevertheless, the use of eurodac for law enforcement purposes also has variable opportunities to counter organised crime and to provide the authorities with legitimate and effective means to make progress, particularly in the area of asylum abuse. the amendments by the rapporteur on data protection should in any case be taken into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this draft regulation and was surprised that several members from right-wing groups who have always said that they stand up for the rights of their member states have voted in favour of this report today. this report clearly worsens the legal position of the member states. in future, if a country wants to introduce controls at its borders - a classic expression of sovereignty - if it wants to do so at the internal borders of the schengen area, it will have to obtain the commission's prior approval, and this within a certain time limit. if the deadline is missed, then this country has already lost its rights. this is outrageous! how can we say that this is progress? this has led to a deterioration in the security of citizens in the member states who are at risk of uncontrolled border crossings. nothing has been improved, only worsened. the commission is now the only one left to intervene. this simply means that, following the danish model which has been opposed, an attempt is being made to impose on the member states in future a patronage from the commission. i can only refuse.
in writing. − the report seems, at first sight, to facilitate the possibility for member states, under certain circumstances, to re-establish border controls at intra-european borders, i.e. internal borders within the eu. but if you read it more closely, you will see that the rapporteur is opposed in principle to the reintroduction of border controls and that this should only be possible in exceptional cases. i am of the opinion, however, that any member state, if it so considers for whatever reason, should have the possibility of temporarily carrying out border controls. this would massively increase security within the eu and massively reduce the crossborder crime that is currently rampant in europe. travellers face short waiting times at borders, similar to those at airports. the vast majority of eu citizens would be happy to accept this in exchange for more security. the report was therefore rejected.
in writing. the rapporteur aims to strengthen the schengen system by increasing the dialogue between the parties involved in the event of a temporary reintroduction of internal border controls. it therefore called on the commission to take action and to adopt the necessary guidelines. such a strengthening of the system is clearly in line with the objectives set by the european union.
in writing. − in my view ‘transparency’ is essential for the financial stability of the european union. secondly, taking into consideration the actual context of the economic crisis i consider that a ‘transparency guideline’ should offer a better and more comprehensive economic picture of the investments made within the eu and their risks. investors, shareholders and citizens would be ‘financially protected’. using a ‘transparency principles guideline’ investors and shareholders willing to expand or invest more in their businesses could rely on this information and their investment decisions would be more responsible. more transparency would be translated into a ‘safety instrument’ for eu economic growth, as companies, smes and other stakeholders would start to refocus on long-term economic objectives. this would tackle the ‘administrative burden’ that stakeholders need to face currently, and boost economic growth.
in writing. the report proposes a reduction in direct payments if a certain partial ceiling is exceeded. however, a reduction in direct payments will not apply to romania, bulgaria and croatia, as these countries are still relatively new to the eu. i think this is an injustice to the countries that are paying, because we cannot pay for the mismanagement programmes of those countries over the past decades. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the argument that this commission proposal promotes legal certainty, trust, solidarity, freedom and also the economy is understandable.
in writing. - the council's decision on the redistribution of seats to the european parliament, which was adopted on the recommendation of the european parliament, must be firmly rejected from the austrian point of view. it disproportionately disadvantages austria in relation to similarly large countries and is not balanced. in accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality, 19 seats should have been allocated to austria. but now there are only 18, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the recommendation on the draft european council decision on the composition of the european parliament. i am very pleased about the accession of croatia. the croats are an important part of european culture and, particularly in austria, the croats are well integrated and have been historically linked to austria for centuries. membership of the european union also carries the risk of being booed by other member states or pressured by the commission with unjustified infringement procedures. i had to reject this recommendation as an austrian because it deprives the austrians of a mandate in the european parliament. the fact is that the swedish government has failed to negotiate a seat in the council, which has cost austria a mandate. no patriotic austrian can approve of such a distribution of seats. as for our new eu member state, not only is croatia long overdue for eu membership, but the croats will also make a significant contribution to the eu. europe needs strong nations. i solemnly encourage the croats to stand proudly by their independence for the good of their country in all their conflicts with the eurocrats in brussels.
in writing. - social investment has many facets. there are a wide range of social services of social interest. whether it is the integration of socially excluded people into the labour market, care for the elderly in an ageing society, the fight against homelessness, investments in health or other social policy aspects, it is in times of austerity that the wind is blowing. of course, it is essential to make social investments. however, it must be clear that there are no patent solutions that can be imposed on each state at eu level. on the contrary, it requires a very differentiated approach, since the conditions vary from one member state to another. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community guidelines on the environment. these problems cannot be solved at eu level, but must be looked at locally to identify the most appropriate measures, rather than throwing millions of taxpayers' money out the window from distant brussels for meaningless prestige projects. the principle of subsidiarity applicable in these areas must be respected. i have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution reinforces its commitment to a social europe. the social dimension of european monetary union needs to be deepened. the strong pressure on public budgets to save is increasingly crowding out long-term investment for sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and economic growth. the european economic policy must finally be better coordinated with social policy measures so that both areas can reinforce each other in their objectives. only a social investment package can create sustainable economic growth.
in writing. − the overall objective of the cohesion policy is to invest in the less-developed european regions. it is important to achieve a regional development balance between less-developed and more-developed areas. in this way, the eu’s regions will become more competitive. ‘state aid’ as financial support instrument should be revised and consolidated. reviewing the guidelines and procedures of implementation and application of the eu state aid is to be supported as long as it complies with the eu subsidiarity principle.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the competition rules to the provision of services of general economic interest. i believe that the common competition policy will lead to too much merging of the member countries of the internal market, the banking union and the economic and monetary union as a whole. this has many contra-indications, since the member states have very different starting points in terms of economy, politics and, for example, culture. the problem is that standardization will inevitably lead to inequality, since all participants will be treated equally regardless of performance. i am a supporter of a fair policy and therefore voted against the resolution on this point.
in writing. − in the last years, bearing in mind the financial crisis’ background, it was proved several times that competition is a necessary instrument in the fight against the economical crisis that struck europe. in my opinion, competition is a step to social progress. competition ‘moves’ the engine of one’s economy and ensures the balance and health of the markets. competition on the internal market automatically fosters sme activity, business development, attracts (foreign direct) investments, and also determines a proper price formation that favours and protects the consumer, in other words our citizens.
in writing. − this motion is in favour of a more spending-oriented eu economic policy and against austerity measures in the failing states. in principle, any country that is in debt must also meet these obligations and cannot pass them on to other countries under the guise of a misunderstood 'solidarity'. but this is precisely what is happening in the eu at the moment, and what this proposal would do even more. economic stimulus, in this case financed by well-performing countries such as austria and germany, would be a practical option according to keynes, but keynes also said that the funds for such measures should be saved in times of growth. however, this was not possible because many bankrupt southern countries, such as greece, lived beyond their means for a long time and were admitted to the economic and monetary union despite poor economic data. the continuing financing of the ailing southern countries by the equally highly indebted but still solvent northern euro states is neither reasonable nor fair. the crisis countries should leave the euro, reintroduce their own currency, devalue it and do everything possible to become competitive again. it's their only chance. the eurozone as it stands today is not sustainable. that is why i voted against this motion, which does not reflect reality.
in writing. - i cannot agree with the present resolution, which does not offer a solution to the basic problem and is not without problems in some of its points of view. firstly, the eu must not be given a new opportunity to assume powers it is not entitled to. the european union's massive push for flexible working hours and so on is putting the 5.5 million unemployed young people at risk of being pushed into atypical employment relationships such as permanent internships, part-time work, low-level employment, temporary work, mac-jobs and so on, and thus being consigned to lifelong poverty. the idea, already voiced in the eu, that member states should guarantee all eu citizens under 25 some form of employment within four months of graduating will probably remain a pious wish. in addition, 'some employment' could be understood as a 'more or less' voluntary eu social year. no, youth unemployment is a problem for which each country must find the most appropriate solution.
in writing. − in april 2013, the youth unemployment rate in the european union reached a new record of 23.5%, according to official statistics. in latvia, unfortunately, this figure is even higher than the eu average (28.4% in 2012). i welcomed a number of existing measures to reduce unemployment, such as the growth and jobs pact, with a focus on job creation, especially for young people, as well as the funding allocated to the youth education initiative. however, much remains to be done to reduce youth unemployment rates. i therefore supported the european parliament's resolution on 'european action to combat unemployment', which we drew up in the run-up to the european council on 27 and 28 june 2013 and which contains a number of valuable proposals to be implemented at eu and member state level. there is currently no direct link between what young people learn at university and what a potential employer requires of them. it is therefore essential to make education more competitive by making practical training in companies or public institutions a compulsory part of every study programme in order to help young people adapt to the trends in the labour market. however, the most effective way of preventing unemployment in the long term is to promote sustainable economic growth. it is therefore necessary to support small and medium-sized enterprises, both by helping them to access finance to facilitate job creation and by easing administrative procedures and the tax burden, especially for enterprises that recruit young people.
in writing. - we are currently experiencing one of the worst social crises. in april of this year, almost a quarter of european young people were unemployed. there are major national differences: in austria, youth unemployment is around eight per cent, while in greece it is an incredible 62.5%. if we do not act quickly, we risk losing a whole generation of young europeans. the figures do not merely illustrate the urgency of action. they also show that the austerity policies imposed on the countries in crisis have led to serious social dislocation. long-term investment in education and training programmes and projects such as the european youth guarantee is the only sensible answer. the resolution takes this into account and calls for a significant increase in the funding for the implementation of the youth guarantee in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − tackling youth unemployment in the eu is one of the greatest challenges of our time and must be given priority accordingly; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european youth employment fund. it is essential to recognise the great potential of europe's young people and to ensure that it can be realised. advanced education and training (in particular dual systems) are a way out of a cycle of poverty and an opportunity to reduce the risk of a 'lost generation'.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey (2013/2664 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank catherine ashton, the vice-president/high representative, and commissioner füle for their very clear statements. that is what europe needs: these kinds of clear statements. ‘this tayyip erdoğan won’t change’, mr erdoğan said – and that is a threat, a dangerous threat – because he has to change unless he wants to lead turkey away from europe, and away from the respect of european values. yes, a majority supported erdoğan at the last elections and maybe still do today, i do not know, but i know of many voters of erdoğan who are not on the erdoğan side today but are demonstrating in taksim square. it is very strange that mr erdoğan, who started his political career – especially as prime minister – fighting against the deep state and pushing the military back (which is a good thing), now uses the same deep state, especially the police, to attack peaceful demonstrators: police in uniform but also in plain clothes. that deep state is still here, and he is using this instrument. after 10 days of protests, four people are dead, 5 000 are injured, many people are in prison: is this the reaction of a democratic government to demonstrations? yes, there were hooligans there as well – in all the demonstrations all around the world, there are peaceful demonstrations and some people come and try to misuse peaceful demonstrations. but it is not correct or justified for mr erdoğan to say these demonstrators as such are hooligans and cannot and should not be suspected. i fully agree with the vice-president/high representative when she said we need more engagement. yes, and therefore we should start immediately negotiating chapter 23 and chapter 24 with turkey, because these are the issues where we can put the turkish government to the test – and i do not say turkey, but the turkish government – to see whether it is ready to go with europe or not. because if turkey today is the country in the world with the highest number of journalists in prison relative to the total number of journalists, this is nothing to do with democracy. if mr erdoğan wants to solve the kurdish issue, which i would like him to, and at the same time puts a lot of people in prison because they have sympathy for the kurdish issue, perhaps some people think he only wants to solve ‘the kurdish issue’ to get kurdish votes in parliament, to change the constitution for him to then, perhaps, be the president of a turkey with a stronger presidency. it is now up to mr erdoğan to draw the consequences. my last point. erdoğan and turkey want to play a big role in the arab world. but how can mr erdoğan be the role model for the arab world and arab presidents and arab politicians if he acts towards the young generation the way he does? if he wants to come back to the normal way – to be a good president, a good prime minister, to be a role model – mr erdoğan will have to change. that is the message that has to come from here. yes, we want turkey, but this turkey as represented today by mr erdoğan cannot have a place in europe. mr erdoğan will have to change to change turkey. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question for the previous speaker, mr swoboda. after this very interesting report and a great deal of analysis, which i was also able to read a little bit in the media, i have a question for you, mr swoboda: just a few weeks ago, in the debate on visa-free travel for the western balkans, you were a fervent supporter of turkish accession. they wanted to have a total solution. you have also suggested this, so to speak, from bosnia to the bosporus. i ask you today, in the light of the reality you have described, have you changed your mind? did you mean what president schulz said? what is your view today on the european dimension and the negotiations with turkey?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague! blinded by their ideology. can't you see reality? no one said we should now include all the countries east of croatia. and visa liberalisation has nothing to do with accession. we have many countries with visa liberalisation that are not joining. but i must confess that i have always been in favour of giving turkey a chance. but turkey must seize the opportunity! what erdoğan is doing today is not taking a chance. if he changes, there's a chance. but he must change if turkey is to become a democratic country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe must now be careful not to introduce moral double standards and moral distinctions between a nato partner and an important trading partner. that would be very tempting. we did not react when turkey used its air force to kill 35 people in the province of sirnak early last year. we have let turkey know that it still denies the armenian genocide. we have let her know that she is not going to investigate the crimes of the military dictatorship. we have not asked turkey to withdraw its troops from northern cyprus. we let her go through the civil war with the kurds. we're letting mr. erdogan go through his new islamic police state. we let him get away with murdering journalists. we'll let the turks believe that they're dreaming of a new ottoman power. and now we are going to let turkey get away with killing young people who want nothing more than democracy and freedom of expression, the very protection of which we have used to justify military action elsewhere. europe must now be careful not to apply double standards to turkey just because it is a nato partner, and not to introduce different standards just because turkey is an important trading partner! that's my appeal!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, we are all on the side of those demonstrators who are currently in turkey fighting for freedom and democracy. it may well be, as mr duff says, that these demonstrations, despite the brutal actions of the turkish authorities, will lead to a strengthening of turkish democracy in the medium or long term. but even if that is the case, we must be clear from the current events that turkey is not a european country. it is pursuing a policy of islamization at home and a neo-ottoman power policy abroad through its government. the kurdish question, the problem of the kurdish minority, is unsolved. the christian minority continues to be discriminated against, the armenian genocide is denied, the cyprus problem is completely unresolved and, of course, turkey is also a front-line state with syria, which would also cause intolerable problems for europe if it were a member. we must therefore be clear that these accession negotiations are basically a mockery which must be stopped as soon as possible. we must be clear that turkey is not only an important partner for the eu because of its economic rise, but certainly not a european country. she won't be either!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. criticism of turkey's eu membership was taboo for a long time. but recent events have even led president schulz to reflect on turkey's suitability for europe. but that sounds as if turkey has been a model of democracy. despite the disregard for religious freedom, human rights, the unresolved cyprus issue and the dubious role in the syrian conflict, the eu has opened new chapters and continues to pay billions in pre-accession aid to ankara, which is flowing through dark channels. the brutality with which erdogan is treating his people is shocking. erdogan's announcement that this is the end of tolerance is really telling. nevertheless , some of my colleagues here have obviously the naivety and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the recent events in turkey i mean the violent crackdown by the executive against peaceful demonstrators, the arrest of lawyers, the restriction of media freedom contradict any understanding of democracy. under prime minister erdogan's "progressive" democracy, turkey has increasingly moved away from genuine democracy and fundamental values and democratic principles. this approach is not an isolated case under the akp leadership: i was in istanbul and ankara in november 2012 and met with trade unionists. you're under a lot of pressure. fundamental human rights such as freedom of assembly and expression are severely restricted. if there are strikes, the police will film them. dissenters are put in detention for months/years under the pretext of terrorism. it also affects a very large number of journalists, writers and academics who are critical of the government. the call by prime minister erdogan for counter-demonstrations and the division of the population into akp voters and 'vandals' or 'non-believers' is polarizing turkish society and is not a way out of the crisis! we must not agree to this violence and the authoritarian leadership of prime minister erdogan and we must send a clear signal to ankara in the resolution!
mr president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i also wish to congratulate mrs ashton and her team on what they have achieved over the last two and a half years. it was not a child's play, and for that there is praise and recognition. where else do you build a structure, a company, an institution, and you name the top people first and then you say what the thing should look like? you are truly to be commended for this. i know it hasn't been easy. i've heard that before. i guess it takes superhuman strength to do that without criticism. i also regret that the eu's embassies abroad cannot be called eu embassies but delegations. hopefully, we can change that in the future. what i thank you for most sincerely is how you managed to get kosovo and serbia to agree to an agreement which will hopefully now be implemented. that was a real feat, and i think it's going down in history. i say that as the kosovo rapporteur for this parliament. but there are also many obstacles which prevent the foreign service from reaching its full potential. i'll name two. they're not with the foreign service. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. but that's not your fault. that's someone else's. we need a new convention to take things to a new level. in future, flatter structures will be necessary, including representatives for you or your successor. i see your fight for more women at the top of the european external action service. you've done a lot of good work on that one. but here too it would be necessary if the member states nominated more women, so that you could then also find more women for these top positions. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we ask people what they want from the european union, they want above all a common foreign policy, a clear, sharpened, competent face of europe in the world. when we look at the consequences of globalisation for this continent, we know that we need to make the european union the continent's spokesperson in the world. the only way to achieve both is to have an efficient foreign service. we have a lot of work to do here! we are at the beginning of this development. but things are going wrong. the division of responsibilities between the commission, the member states and the european external action service creates inefficiency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i found the organogram in an essay by my colleague ingrid gräßle. this organization chart shows very clearly how fragmented and confused the service is. i hear from some foreign service personnel that there are different arrangements for leave and different responsibilities. these differences must be eliminated! the european parliament is on your side when it comes to creating a genuine european external action service and eliminating inefficient fragmentation.
i have to say, madam president, what is the european vision of the future of this european union? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or do you want a union that is federal, subsidiary, democratic and liberal at home, but strong and able to represent european interests in the world abroad? i'm sure it's the latter. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the world economy. that's not a question. what we have now is a strange double strategy. we still have the old european powers or those who think they are, who are pursuing their own foreign policy, and we have on the other hand the eu, which is considered to be more impotent in foreign policy, which is considered to be a foreign policy dwarf that does nothing, or at least can pay. that needs to change. we need a foreign service, but first a common, meaningful european foreign policy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to speak out against this bullying of hungarians. i think that all those who have spoken against hungary in their debates today have not read this report. the annex, for example, lists the status of freedom in the countries of the democratic transition and says: hungary free! in the ranking of media and press freedom, hungary is still ahead of italy at 56, not far behind malta, but still ahead of greece at 84, bulgaria at 87 and israel at 112. that is to say, objectively, all the accusations made against hungary today are not tenable. i cannot imagine the commotion if, instead of the greek government, the government of viktor orbán had closed down a public service broadcaster overnight. i don't want to hear it! instead, it will be left to the left to protest against this, especially the greek members of parliament, the rest will remain silent! no protest, no special session, no summons to the greek prime minister! this is double standards, as they cannot be surpassed!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i will try to keep the time and do my best to follow your instructions. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs schaake, on her report. it's a good report. in combination with a commissioner like stavros lambrinidis, who is also doing a very good job, we can already show something. but it is also important to say that you can only promote human rights if you yourself are an example of human rights. i doubt whether the european union can meet this demand in recent times. it was european software that harassed the insurgents in the arab spring. it is the eu countries which on the one hand restrict the freedom of the press, such as a neighbouring country of austria, which mr stadler has amazingly defended, which i do not quite understand, or another country which closes its public broadcasting. we are negotiating membership with a larger state as if nothing had happened, where journalists are being imprisoned and a public advocating democracy is being beaten up by the police. we're talking to another country that's spying on our citizens about a trade deal and pretending nothing happened. as long as that is our policy, our human rights approach is not likely to be taken quite seriously by others. we must first go back to our own doorstep and then we can do much better in the area of human rights elsewhere. mr president, that was exactly one minute and thirty seconds ago.
i have to say, madam president, the struggle for democracy in central africa, with coups d'état and seemingly democratic elections, has been going on for decades. if the apparent incompetence of the public administration does indeed make food supplies more precarious, the region may be facing the next great famine. the fact that many of them have not been able to cultivate their fields is a cause for concern. if we do not get aid to the poorest soon, the situation will escalate in no time. it is shameful that even in times of famine, african governments have no interest in seeing that crops find their way to a neighboring country's market, and that bureaucratic hurdles and import barriers often make it easier for non-african producers to supply an african city than for farmers outside the gates of the respective metropolitan center. it remains to be seen how much improvement an eu economic agreement can bring.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that we are launching this directive today. it is a huge opportunity for europe that this area is leading to new jobs, especially for young people who have grown up with digitalisation. big data, the data that is now finally available, is giving us a whole new opportunity. while the value of public data was €28 billion in 2008, the value of public data has increased to €40 billion today. this data can be of great value, not only in the cultural field. access to the differentiated content in the member states is a matter of course. but research also shows what opportunities for new products and services can develop accordingly. the aim of the directive is, first and foremost, the cross-border exchange of information, namely the right to have the data made available in another member state, in machine-readable form, free of charge or at least only at the cost of digitisation or duplication. then there is a public body which can check that the costs are not out of the scope. in the field of education in particular, there is a huge opportunity to update the outdated educational content - which we currently have in many schools in europe - with the latest figures, with the latest developments, with the opportunities for dynamic future development and thus also with new offers on the world market. i would like to thank all those who have worked in this area. for the future, we can say that this is exemplary legislation in europe, which will benefit us citizens accordingly.
i have to say, madam president, it is certainly true that transparency of public data is a very sensible and positive endeavour. the commissioner is right when he says that this is a way of promoting culture by making europe's cultural heritage available in a digitized form. it is also true that research is being promoted, and that it may create new jobs and growth. this is all very important and positive. another effect that has perhaps been forgotten is that by providing public data, the citizen also has something of an indirect control over the efficiency of public administration and thus can also control through the visibility of this data. on the other hand, it is also true that data protection is important and that eu-wide security standards may be needed in electronic mail. the eu should take a more restrictive stance towards the americans, who are currently facing problems with data protection.
in writing. − the european union needs to strengthen its economic integration with the central african region. both sides can benefit from a deeper trade relationship. trade helps to promote democracy. the main consideration is to take account of regional specificities and different development standards. i therefore voted in favour of the transitional agreement for an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eu and the central african region.
in writing. - it is shameful that even in the face of famine, african governments have no interest in seeing that crops find their way to the market of a neighbouring country. it is equally shameful that it is often easier for non-african producers to supply an african city than it is for farmers outside the gates of the urban center. the complex causes of inefficiency in africa's agricultural markets do not make things any easier. the eu is trying to help through economic integration, the strengthening of regional markets and, in particular, through the doha negotiations, trade facilitation initiatives. in the present situation, especially after the collapse of the public administration in the wake of the recent takeover, i consider the proposed economic agreement in its present form to be problematic and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − relations between the eu and the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) states began in the 1970s. the 1975 lomé convention on development cooperation was replaced in 2000 by the contonou convention. the second amendment is to adapt it to recent developments in international relations and to deepen various issues such as economic cooperation and political dimensions. the outstanding character of this partnership will also be preserved. however, the european parliament's recommendation does have some flaws. for example, i believe that a non-discrimination proposal favours gays and lesbians over heterosexuals. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in writing. - the european union's cooperation with the acp states is also in line with the fundamental values of our democratic society. this cooperation, which is very positive, should in principle be continued. the financing of the continuation of this agreement is still unclear and the areas of 'tax haven', 'fair trade and finance' and concrete mechanisms for monitoring and verifying compliance with the agreement are still lacking. the rapporteur also describes the shortcomings of the treaty, which are mainly reflected in the fact that human rights and the principles of equality have not been integrated in the form requested by the european parliament. the signing of the agreement, in order to maintain the dialogue and to allow for further revision, is a sensible approach, although the rapporteur's request must be implemented.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report because it contains a lot of truth about hungary and the bullying against hungarians, which should be put into perspective. the report also contains a lot of facts about turkey and greece. i don't want to do this again. but i would like to take this opportunity to draw the house's attention to our own position on freedom of expression. i received yesterday a communication from the directorate-general for exhibition services that an exhibition i wanted to hold was being rejected for the very reasons which mr mitchell mentioned in the debate yesterday. the exhibition was to be organised by 'youth for life'. this is a life-saving organization of young people from austria who wanted to represent life-saving here. their efforts were rejected, with quaestor jim higgins arguing that the subject was highly controversial and could lead to controversial political debates. look at that. in a parliament, a highly controversial political debate could be triggered. this is freedom of expression as it is perceived by the european parliament at the moment when it is a matter of life and death. this clearly shows how we ourselves feel about freedom of expression in this house.
in writing. - freedom of the press is an important pillar of democratic principles. journalists continue to be persecuted, imprisoned or executed for their work around the world. the publication of information and opinions is not without danger only in distant countries, although in the western countries the freedom of the press is relatively highly valued and largely guaranteed. a particularly negative example in this respect is probably turkey, which is not only miles away from eu maturity in this respect. but even in the eu there is no real freedom of the press and of expression. for example, in the name of mainstream politics, media reports on crime are all too often silent about the possibility of a migrant background. similarly, public media coverage of patriotic forces in many eu countries is one-sided and highly subjective. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. − freedom of expression is a fundamental right and, as a universal human right, it is the foundation of democracy and is closely linked to the freedom and pluralism of the press and media. the increasing use of (digital) media platforms contributes to increased diversity and pluralism. the restrictions on freedom of expression have serious consequences. freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of the media and journalists are threatened. the harassment of journalists must end and journalists and bloggers unlawfully detained must be released immediately. a balance between national security and freedom of information issues must be struck to ensure the independence of the press and media and to prevent abuses. the press and media must be able to operate independently and should not be subject to political and financial pressure. the eu's role as a community of values is based on the promotion and protection of press and media freedom worldwide. the eu should take a leading role in ensuring media independence, pluralism and diversity.
in writing. − this report deals with the reuse of public sector information. the establishment of an independent regulatory authority would counter member states' efforts to reduce red tape and consolidate budgets. the introduction of multilingual search is a sensible option, already offered on a voluntary basis, but with high costs if it is mandatory.
in writing. − in the area of financial services, some measures have been taken at eu level to try to curb the unspeakable speculation that has triggered the current financial and debt crisis. it was unfortunately foreseeable that the fairy tale of the self-regulating forces of the market would eventually turn out to be pure wishful thinking. we need a stable financial sector, we need to guarantee the safety of deposits and we need to ensure legal certainty in the case of securities and the like. the deposit guarantee is a pseudo-security, however, given the agreement of eu finance ministers that savers with deposits of over €100,000 can be asked to come to the cash register in the event of future bank failures. the question is whether it will remain at the 100,000 euro limit. instead, the finance ministers should have agreed on measures requiring a fair contribution from speculators who have already ruined so many banks with their insane deals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. - i believe that the decision-making power of a country should be entirely in the hands of the people. however, the current situation in turkey does not allow for such a view, since the turkish acp government is violating many democratic principles, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression. for example, media outlets that reported on the protests of the turkish people were fined. the brutal crackdown by the turkish police on the demonstrators is also a violation not only of the right to freedom of assembly but also of human rights. i voted in favour of this motion because it calls on the turkish government to pursue a more democratic policy, but also because it recognises that turkey is very far from eu membership in these circumstances.
in writing. − a successful foreign service can only be based on a strategy negotiated by the eu's foreign policy actors. while some see a vision of the eac as a replacement for their national diplomatic services and hope for a supranational consular service, others pursue their own political agenda. for them, it can only be a supplement, for example in the area of neighbourhood policy. the ead has thus seamlessly joined the army of eu agencies which cost taxpayers millions and are dominated by double structures and duplicative work. even a reorganisation with better staffing and a clearer division of responsibilities and powers will do little to change the basic problems. i think the reform we are seeking is too little in depth in this respect. that is why i did not approve the report.
in writing. − the projects mentioned in the report are aimed at savings, efficiency gains and specifications, which are welcome in the context of a more efficient review of the organisation and functioning of the european external action service. the proposals of the committee on budgets must be dealt with from a budgetary point of view.
in writing. the report aims to promote freedom of religion and belief, inter alia, by providing financial instruments or by supporting civil society. as i consider the report's methods to be largely appropriate and as i am of course also a supporter of freedom of religion and belief - for example, in my written request to the commission on 8 february 2011, i drew attention to the christian minority in turkey who are discriminated against by the government, in this case on the basis of the partial expropriation of one of the oldest christian monasteries, and called on the eu to act - i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is essential to keep the right to freedom of religion and belief constantly in mind and to include it in the european union's external policy, to promote it and to condemn its violations. clearly defined guidelines lead to more consistent application and precise practice, including and especially within the eu institutions and member states. the european union is a union of human rights, based on the universal recognition of their validity.
in writing. the rapporteur supports the data protection and data exchange programmes swift and pnr. there is no doubt that the fight against terrorism is one of the great global challenges facing all countries and continents. however, many citizens are very critical of these and similar agreements, and these concerns should be taken very seriously for reasons of our understanding of data protection. i also find it problematic to integrate the european enlargement process into this context, as the financial situation is not sufficiently clear both in the eu and in the (potential) candidate countries. the report would be welcomed in large part because of the facts mentioned: abstention.
in writing. - mali was a very poor and underdeveloped country even before the military coup in march last year and the conflict between the tuareg rebels and the government. but since those incidents, the situation in the country has worsened considerably. for example, 750,000 people are in need of immediate food aid and over 350,000 people have been forced to flee their homes. furthermore, the north african country is currently ranked 182 out of 187 in the human development index and is one of the 15 poorest countries in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement would bring some benefits. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the afghan government to develop its military and civilian capabilities. the eu also aims to continue and deepen democratic values, the rule of law, respect for human rights and good governance. the report also supports gender equality, which is not as advanced in afghanistan as in the eu due to the prevalence of islamism. however, such cooperation has not borne any fruit in recent years. 2.5 billion euros in aid injections have benefited afghanistan over the last decade. however, no real progress was made, partly because of the prevalent corruption which allowed the funds to be squandered. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. − while the eu's development policy remains extremely expensive, it is hardly changing. in this sense, a reorientation would be most appropriate. the first is that there is a need to increase the provision of self-help assistance, as has been achieved to some extent in the case of microcredit. secondly, we must tighten up the controls so that billions of dollars are not spent on supporting tyrants and dictators, instead of this money ever reaching the little man. in addition, in view of the increasingly pressing problems of overpopulation, development aid makes little sense unless it includes measures to curb the exploding birthrate in developing countries, which is one of the causes of poverty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am absolutely in favour of the matters mentioned by mr weber being dealt with in this parliament, because for us there is no ambiguity. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. where were you when mr siderow of ataka supported the borisov government and was actively involved in it? i didn't hear about that. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have spoken out clearly against ataka. i have been very clear and specific about ataka and mr siderow. he has nothing in common with our european values! we have nothing in common! and i was very clear in my opposition to the appointment, which has been withdrawn. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) why are you so nervous? i've been listening to you, mr. weber. it's only decent that you listen to me. i made it clear that this was a mistake. mr stanishev and many others have admitted this mistake. i therefore propose, and i can only repeat it here, and the conference of presidents has approved it by a majority, that a hearing be held next week. i am in favour of including the new results in the hearing, which was originally intended only for the alleged election fraud by mr borisov. i'm sure you are. and i have promised that my group will give its full support to putting bulgaria on the agenda in september and to having an open debate here. i'm not against it. it's not a big deal. where mistakes have been made, mistakes have been made. i'm all for it. if you wish, we can have bulgaria on the agenda as early as the first week of september after the hearing in the libe committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that in 2007/2008 alone some 300[nbsp ] 000 vehicles in the eu had to be withdrawn from circulation because of their poor condition shows the importance of roadside inspections. the extension of the scope of technical roadside inspections to commercial vehicles of less than 3,5 tonnes may be justified, given that these vehicles also cause damage to other road users and the environment if they are poorly maintained. and if, in the course of these checks, there is some information on cargo securing, this may be quite useful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of vehicles is not compromised. i do not think, however, that it is sensible or understandable to change from a directive to a regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is quite encouraging that the number of road accidents in germany has reached a historic low. especially when you consider that the number of motor vehicles has tripled since then. on the other hand, in germany alone, to stick to this example, on average ten people still lose their lives every day in road traffic. so there's really a lot of work to be done. in view of this, the commission's position on the authorization of gigaliners is incomprehensible. apart from the billions in infrastructure costs that this would impose on the member states, this would be a clear departure from the objective of rail transport and a safety disaster, given the correspondingly longer crossing distance and the four times higher risk of fatal accidents. the commission should no longer listen to the freight lobby on this matter, and it should not listen to the lobby on the proposed ban on trucks overtaking each other on two-lane motorways. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think, madam president, that the figures i have in my possession are quite telling. it may be that empirically, the values can only be raised after the actual occurrence of these gigalins. i believe, however, that the dangers posed by such huge freight trains are obvious and the cost of infrastructure is undeniable.
in writing. the commission was asked by parliament to develop a catalogue of measures to reduce the number of people seriously injured on europe's roads by the end of 2011. the declared objective is to reduce the number of life-threatening injuries by 40% on the basis of a uniform definition. not much has happened since then! every year, 500,000 people are injured on europe's roads - including 300,000 seriously injured! to date, the commission has only developed a uniform definition of 'serious infringement'. and i'm also wondering how that fits in with the admission of gigaliners? the commission wants these giant trucks to be registered throughout europe, even though they have been shown to affect road safety: through poor visibility, longer overtaking distances and increased accident severity in collisions. is this supposed to help reduce the number of people killed in accidents?
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to begin by thanking everyone for the constructive cooperation we have had in drawing up this directive between all the political groups, but also with the council and, above all, with the support of the commission, so that we have actually come to a solution here quite quickly, which is supported by all parties. i would like to remind you that water policy is a long-term policy, that it is about making clean water available to our fellow citizens in any form; but water is also the basis for all life on our planet and therefore has a special significance. i would remind you that in 2000 we adopted the water framework directive, which is really a piece of basic legislation, a milestone in global water policy, and which is characterised by three elements. first, it involves all waters. secondly, it operates across borders, i.e. in river basin areas. and third, it wants to achieve good ecological and chemical status for our waters by 2015. and now we have this subsidiary directive which we have worked out together and which sets out specific chemical quality standards so that this good chemical condition can be achieved. unfortunately, research shows that there is still a long way to go in terms of both ecological and chemical good health, especially of surface waters. the environmental quality standards now proposed in this new directive concern 15 new substances. we have already identified 33 priority substances in previous directives from 2003 and 2008 which are considered to be particularly hazardous to the aquatic environment and to humans. now for the next step. in a long process, 15 more substances were defined with stakeholders, for which eqs were established, and for seven existing substances the eqs were revised. the new directive also introduces changes in measurement methods, particularly those which also target biota. so it is not just about providing clean water for people, for our fellow citizens, but also about actually looking at the impact of various chemicals that are classified as hazardous on the natural environment. the compromise package we have forged together is characterized by the following points: we have introduced a new watch list of substances which must be subject to special monitoring in order to classify them later, when more data are available, either as dangerous and with quality standards or as non-hazardous - in other words, special monitoring for substances on this watch list. we start with ten fabrics here, and every year we add one more. secondly, we have added pharmaceutical substances for the first time. this is, as i said, a first big step. there are two hormones and diclofenac, which is an anti-inflammatory drug, which are not already covered by eqs as proposed by the commission, but are placed on a temporary watch list and are being monitored in particular. this will be a particularly interesting area in the future, because unfortunately our waters are increasingly polluted with pharmaceuticals. we have met the council's expectations in terms of the timeframe. the expiry date for the old substances is 2021 and for the new substances is 2027. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances. if there's any problems here, it's gonna have repercussions on the admission. i think that overall it is a balanced package and i am now counting on the member states to implement it in a timely manner!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president! - what is it? as i said, this success was only possible because we all worked together excellently. i would like to begin with the last point that the commissioner mentioned, implementation. this proposal is only as good as its implementation. this is a particular problem in the water sector, because this proposal involves special costs. but if we look at the cost side, then we have to look at the benefit side. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. and the benefits of the routes are many times the costs incurred by local authorities and member states. i would like to say a few words about pharmaceutical substances: i think this is an important step in the right direction. of course, we have to continue to collect data. it's not that water policy is about banning any drug. it is about all of us - the regulatory authority and the people who use these medicines, as well as the member states and communities who should organise collection systems - taking responsibility to ensure that medicines do not end up in the water. this applies, of course, to human and veterinary medicines. in conclusion, although it is not appropriate to do so, i would also like to make a request to commissioner potočnik: i hope that the college of commissioners will follow commissioner barnier's proposal to withdraw the water sector from the concession directive. i think that's very politically wise. water is a special commodity, it is associated with special sentimentality and emotions. i think it's politically better to take that part out at this point. i do not want to create a special field here, as i said, where there are no specific transparency rules, but in the present situation it is better if this remains outside. i hope the college of commissioners will follow this wise suggestion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european citizens' initiative is an important achievement because it seeks to implement elements of direct democracy. the right to water citizens' petition was the first to exceed the required minimum number of signatures. this has made it clear that such a direct democratic instrument makes sense because it can successfully pool civic engagement. but it also shows that many people in europe are concerned about the supply of public goods such as drinking water. it is to be welcomed that these concerns were addressed in the trilogue negotiations and that the commissioner responsible withdrew his original ideas. this should be an occasion for the european institutions to pay greater attention to the issue of public services, especially in the light of article[nbsp ]36 of the charter of fundamental rights, which states that access to services of general economic interest is a fundamental right.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis (2012/2321 (ini)) (a7-0222/2013).
mr president, there are more than 150[nbsp ]000 cooperative enterprises in the european union owned by more than 120[nbsp ]million members. they provide jobs for over five million people. our rapporteur is trying to support the development of such cooperatives. if i look at it in detail, i have to say that this report asks for too much, namely for too much regulation, although it has to be noted very positively that there are cooperatives which are active in the field of renewable energy. they should be strongly supported, especially in view of the 2020 priorities defined in the renewable energy sources directive of 2009.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr paolo bartolozzi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on innovation for sustainable growth: a bioeconomy for europe (com (2012) 0060 (ini)) (a7-0201/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. europe faces many and constant challenges in the future, because our world population is constantly growing. we are facing an increase in the demand for food and energy. however, it is also necessary to reflect the global scarcity of natural resources. for us in europe, this means finding sustainable options. one of those possibilities is definitely the bioeconomy. it promotes sustainability and ensures rural development that reduces greenhouse gases. i share the rapporteur's view that much more needs to be done in this area to make further progress. i would like to stress above all that europe also has a place in the world of cutting-edge research and innovation and that everything must be done to prevent and, above all, reduce any possible exodus.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the first annual report from the commission to the european parliament on the activities of the export credit agencies of the member states (2012/2320(ini)) (a7-0193/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will be very brief as my colleagues are still coming in. we finally got an agreement on youth unemployment, but, mr van rompuy, it was this parliament who pressed for the youth guarantee. it was this parliament who pressed for the front-loading and it was this parliament who said front-loading needs to be complemented by back-loading. finally we got something! let me be honest: if we have six, eight or ten billion euros it makes a difference but we have to stop the austerity policy as it is now. we have to move into a growth policy. even foreign affairs, which is not a left-wing paper, wrote recently, ‘the results of the experiment are now in and they are consistent: austerity doesn’t work’. a small step you did take was to emphasise investment. this is something we have emphasised during many debates here. another serious paper, die zeit, wrote ‘deutschland geht kaputt’ because of the lack of investment in infrastructure. that is true not only for a rich country like germany; it is true for many others too. i do not want to read in some years’ time: europa geht kaputt. it is important of course that this does not happen either physically or mentally. therefore we need investment: public investment and private investment. i hope at least that everything from the budget will be spent on this investment because that is very important. as regards private investment, we did something via the banking resolution. fine, thank you, but nevertheless we are far from having a real european banking union. it is important for private banks to give credit to private industry because without this investment, without this credit, it is not possible to go forward in our growth policy. as regards the social criteria, again some progress has been made. i wish to emphasise that. however, we will fight really hard for a strong, social dimension in the emu. it is not acceptable for our citizens that we take account of the debt rate and the deficit rate but that we do not take account of the poverty rate, for example. it is important that we fight against poverty and that we monitor all the governments on what they do on poverty, for example, or what they do to close the gap between the rich and the poor. finally, as regards the surveillance of eu premises: you said some words, i agree, but we need strong words. dear colleagues, in this parliament we need a data protection package before we come to any agreement with the us. we have to ask the us to respect what this parliament and what europe decides on data protection; that is very important. there should be no agreement without that kind of recognition from the us, and i hope you will take a strong stance towards the us because what they are doing is unacceptable. i am very much in favour of good relations with the us but with these kinds of activities they are destroying the possibility of good relations between the eu and the us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)
blue-card answer. – concerning the mff, i would speak with the irish presidency about that, because it was something from the irish presidency and came about on that occasion. we were fighting to the bitter end to get more money. it was the council which, unfortunately, was very resistant. unfortunately, we know also whose position is dominant, from the conservative side, but life is a compromise too. let me tell you one thing. we have been fighting for many years for two things: first of all for budgetary discipline, which is necessary, but also against austerity, which is an extreme form of cutting salaries, cutting wages and cutting pensions. that is a policy we cannot accept, and we have always said that. when portugal’s finance minister resigned recently it was a clear sign that austerity does not work, because this policy no longer has any support in portugal. this was made very clear.
in writing. if billions are no longer being invested in bailing out failing banks or in risky speculation, but in young people, one thing must be clear: the eu youth guarantee alone will not be able to do miracles. there is a strong temptation to 'park' young people in job creation measures so that they disappear from the official unemployment statistics. the youth guarantee is only useful if it creates real prospects. and this includes the eu tackling the problem of flexibility in the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of training and the quality of work. last but not least, it is not a solution if well-educated young people from the countries concerned move north en masse. the qualified are needed in their home countries to cope with the crisis. if, on the other hand, there is a mass exodus, this would only exacerbate the deep-seated problems of the southern eu countries. we should also remember that youth unemployment was already high in countries with structural problems before the crisis. the south lacks good education systems and these need to be developed to ensure that the youth guarantee can have a long-term impact.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the taoiseach and the tánaiste and of course minister creighton for their work. it was a heavy workload and in the end we also got agreement on the budget. let us hope that the council and parliament agree. i think it is important to talk about the implementation now because there is not much time. we could have had an agreement earlier if, for example, the council secretariat had not prevented the council or the presidency from coming to a conclusion. i think we have to spend money on aid for the most deprived and for fighting youth unemployment as well as for developing excellence in innovation, which i saw in dublin some days ago when i visited the biomedical sciences institute at trinity college, because all of this is important for the budget and for our future. budget spending has to go to all levels, from the poorest through to excellence in our work, and therefore we need the flexibility we were fighting for so that all of the budget is spent and none of the money goes back to the ministry of finance because, in any case, the budget is very low. i would like to raise an issue with the taoiseach which is not only an irish one – although it perhaps first came to public attention in ireland – but also affects the whole of europe. when we see the communication or the dialogue between some of the managers of the anglo irish bank – and again i would say that it is not only an irish issue but a european issue – we have to confess that we have in europe a complacent, arrogant and sometimes indecent banking sector and bank managers. that is not acceptable. i would ask the taoiseach and my other colleagues whether they can remember, when we were fighting in this parliament against extravagant bonuses, that these were the people who demanded bonuses and many of our ministers supported them, although we in parliament did not. we had to fight hard. can you remember the libor scandal for example? now i see that brussels has recently charged 13 banks in relation to credit default swaps (cds). this is the banking sector we still have in europe today. they are making fun of us. we should instead be making real regulations and rules for decent banking activity, which is something we need, and we should be giving money to the small and medium-sized enterprises who need it in ireland and in many other countries. therefore i hope that we can have your commitment, even after the presidency and based on your experience with the anglo irish bankers and with many other bankers, so that we can have real rules for the banking sector and a real union for a european banking union. it is important to make it very clear that those bankers, whether they are in the minority or majority, who want to work decently for europe can work. however, we have to say no to that category of arrogant and complacent bankers who are destroying the credibility of the banking sector in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to point out one of the areas where the record of the irish presidency is unfortunately disappointing, namely data protection. because when the privacy act was relaxed, lobbyists, mainly from the us - it companies like google and facebook - had an important strategic ally, namely the irish government. finally, because facebook is a resident of the eu, it has a vital economic self-interest in preventing a uniform and strict data protection law. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is not a new one. in effect, ireland has enforced the reduction of the corporate penalty rate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. so it is to be hoped that mr snowden's revelations will increase public pressure to create effective data protection for europe.
in writing. − the report on the new staff regulations of eu officials contains important changes to bring the working hours into line with those of officials in the member states. it's about time. the increase in the working week to 40 hours and the retirement age to 65 are absolutely to be welcomed. unfortunately, other savings have been left unused. the number of eu officials could have been reduced further. many agencies are unnecessary, waste a lot of money and have no real use. but eu staff, who often do good work for the union from a distance, should not be put in a worse position than their colleagues in member states' embassies or representations. this has been confirmed in the report. some privileges, especially for high officials, could have been removed. in sum, the report is a compromise that improves the status quo but still has potential. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − at present, the eu member states themselves determine the level of liability for nuclear power plants. as a result, power plants are usually only minimally insured against failure. as has been the case in the past, the taxpayers will continue to bear the brunt of the damage from a nuclear accident. conversely, hydropower and thermal power plants are often liable for any damage they cause. as this is a blatant distortion of competition, a complaint was lodged with the commission a few weeks ago. in addition, some safety points from past agreements have not been implemented for nuclear power plants on eu territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the vienna convention sets out the various obligations of states in the field of liability for nuclear damage. it seems to me important and necessary that the member states of the european union should have the same position on the ratification of such a convention. the ratification of this convention, like that of paris, which provides fair compensation for victims of nuclear accidents, must be made compulsory. i therefore support such a proposal and therefore vote in favour of this report by mr mészáros.
in writing. − this report aims to address the lack of uniform procedures in the member states. the aim is to ensure that the parties to the vienna convention ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol, which represents a significant step forward in terms of its content, namely specific rules on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
in writing. − the rapporteur aims at efficiency and consistency in the acquisition of market information and enforcement. objectives of this kind, which promote the system and the values of the union, are very welcome.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european air transport policy. on the one hand, higher airport capacity is required to avoid the risk of loss of competitiveness compared to regions with rapid, exponential growth. on the other hand, demand does not currently exceed supply. it is clear that the eu needs a competitive aviation industry. a lot of measures have been put in place at eu level, for example to make better use of the time slots. in the past, a number of agreements have been concluded with third countries in this context. with regard to the international civil aviation organisation (icao), better coordination within the eu may be useful, but its design must be left to the member states. in this sense i cannot agree with the report.
in writing. − this report deals with the eu's external aviation policy. aviation is an important industry, providing 5.1 million jobs. investment in airport infrastructure must be taken seriously and capacity must be used efficiently. classic airlines and low-cost airlines could complement each other and thus jointly meet challenges. the creation and implementation of eu mechanisms such as the single sky are of great importance. the eu must defend european interests and standards in labour and environmental standards, air passenger rights and compliance with european regulations. closer coordination within the eu through the strengthening of european airlines and hubs and at international level is necessary.
in writing. - the rapporteur makes clear the importance and necessity of the european parliament's assessment of the activities of export credit agencies. the annual volume of transactions carried out alone is an argument for careful examination and settlement. the rapporteur has carefully worked out the problems of the existing system, referring to both content and structural and bureaucratic problems. the report calls for greater transparency and clear reporting.
in writing. - i voted against the waiver of the immunity of marine le pen, as i did not consider that the conditions were right. firstly, i believe that your statement that you regard the mass prayers of muslims in some parts of france, with public squares and roads blocked, as a kind of occupation or occupation, which must be possible within the framework of freedom of expression. secondly, it is incredible to see the united left in this house, or the establishment, creating two categories of members. while people like cohn-bendit are inventing all kinds of reasons, possible and impossible, to oppose the waiver of immunity, the meps who are critical of the eu and of the right are being extradited as quickly as possible. as a democrat, you must reject such a disproportionate approach!
in writing. − the adoption of a statute for the european foundation (ef) is an important and appropriate step towards greater legal certainty, simplified procedures and facilitated exercise of public utility. in addition, non-profit activities are promoted and new jobs are created; the report is therefore welcome.
in writing. − the establishment of working conditions and minimum requirements for the employment of seafarers is an important step towards an internationally valid fair treatment of workers. particular emphasis shall be placed on the control and implementation of the requirements in order to ensure effective enforcement and maritime safety. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. - the problem of registration documents in particular is a recurring one, for example in the case of new car imports into the eu. although the citizen could benefit from up to 45% of the price difference between member states, in practice this is bureaucratic, time-consuming and tedious. it is incomprehensible, for example, that the use of the transit marks is not so easy for transport from one member state to another. and it is high time that the tüv reports of an eu country are recognised in every eu member state. the eu is still asleep here. i voted in that direction.
in writing. this report deals with the registration documents for vehicles. the aim of this proposal is to promote and strengthen the system of technical surveillance of motor vehicles for road safety and environmental protection. the proposal provides for more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles and the withdrawal and cancellation of registrations. it also includes new requirements for electronic registration databases, which should also be networked among member states in order to facilitate vehicle identification. the administrative burden should be reduced. similarly, the validity of road and rail safety inspections should be recognised by all member states. the amendment was approved, as was the vote to postpone the final vote.
in writing. - the extension of the scope of technical roadside inspections to commercial vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes may be appropriate, given that these vehicles, if poorly maintained, also harm other road users and the environment. however, the main areas of control are, of course, commercial vehicles with a high risk profile or where a risk is suspected. i do not understand the transition from a directive to a regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. this report deals with the 'roadworthiness' of commercial vehicles. in order to achieve the objective of reducing road deaths by 50% between 2010 and 2020, the commission has proposed to harmonise/improve eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and technical roadside inspections and to examine the establishment of a european electronic platform to harmonise the exchange of vehicle data. the aim is to improve road safety, environmental protection and a level playing field. road safety is an important social concern. the effectiveness of safety measures depends on the behaviour of road users, so road education, driver education/training and enforcement measures are essential. comprehensive information on the vehicle's history and technical characteristics contributes to the effectiveness of roadworthiness tests and roadside inspections. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency').
in writing. this report covers the technical surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers. the provisions on road and traffic safety inspection are designed to improve road safety and environmental protection. however, the proportionality of the measures should be weighed against the objectives. unnecessary financial and administrative burdens on citizens and the economy should be avoided. the increasing mobility of vehicles requires better harmonised legislation on vehicle technical surveillance with regard to road safety and information. existing mechanisms for the exchange of information between member states should be better used. the final vote has been postponed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to this report by mr seeber. i would just like to point out that the most beautiful directive is of no use if it is not implemented or monitored. i would point out the negligence of the member states in implementing the water framework directive; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's water resources are properly managed and that the community's water resources are properly managed. secondly, i take this opportunity to point out that commissioner barnier has now obviously recognised that it is wiser to exclude public water supply from the proposal for the concession directive. i would ask all members of this house to support this proposal by commissioner michel barnier. he's a reasonable man. water is a precious commodity which should not be subjected to competitive management, but is a public service task which is better placed in this area.
in writing. − the safety of water and the health of our ecosystems is central to the european union and must be an unquestionable priority. in some areas, such as pharmaceutical residues, a stronger position is desirable. water policy should ensure that harmful substances are clearly identified and defined and take appropriate action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of our waters.
in writing. the eu commission has brought a case against deutsche bahn. the main complaint is that the state-owned company channels subsidies from the bund for the expansion of the railways into other sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. germany is certainly not the only country where the liberalisation of the railways, which the eu wants, is not working smoothly. and how radical privatization can go down the drain has been demonstrated by the english railway system after its conversion. private investors are not interested in investing in certain areas, let alone in going to peripheral areas. however, the integration of rural and peripheral regions into public transport is an important undertaking, particularly in view of the increasing orphaning of entire rural areas. that is why i do not agree with this report.
in writing. − in view of the commission's disregard for parliament's legislative power, any amendment to regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 should have been proposed exclusively under the ordinary legislative procedure. this constitutes a serious clerical error which needs to be corrected.
in writing. - in the maritime sector in particular, the conditions for coastal regions, for example, have changed considerably in recent years. despite all the good intentions and various maritime strategies, the eu has not achieved much in this area to date. whether it's overfishing or the environmental impact of offshore installations, there are no good concepts or they're simply not feasible because they're not controllable. the blue growth initiative once again seems to be a paper tiger with no prospects of success, but it is devouring a lot of money. that is why i did not vote for this report.
in writing. − the commission's blue growth initiative is based on a comprehensive study of the economic potential of the industries operating in maritime and coastal regions. the creation of new jobs in the maritime sector is an important concern. the use and expansion of offshore wind energy is also to be welcomed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. it also seems appropriate to promote coastal and maritime tourism, taking into account sustainability and environmental obligations.
in writing. − cooperatives not only fulfil basic tasks of general interest, but they are also locally rooted, safeguard jobs and stimulate economic, social and sustainable innovation. cooperatives have shown a high resilience to redundancies and closures, particularly during the crisis. i therefore welcome the call to give greater legislative consideration to the importance of cooperatives, to provide special funding and to raise awareness of the possibilities of cooperative formation through training programmes for experts.
in writing. - the rapporteur argues very clearly for the role of cooperatives in times of crisis, which are still very much in evidence. the advantages are clear and obvious: they are able to do valuable work in structurally disadvantaged economic areas, while at the same time social structures, medical care and especially micro and small enterprises are supported by the formation of cooperatives. it is also in the interests of the environment to promote renewable energy from the bottom up, a process in which the cooperatives take a leading role. unfortunately, this vote was lost. in all the positive approaches, there is too much, too much regulation, for example, ... therefore "withheld".
in writing. − given the importance of sustainability, particularly in the food and energy sectors, the eu is forced to act. the bioeconomy is a suitable method for optimising the production cycle and at the same time reducing greenhouse gases. in addition to guaranteeing food security, economic growth and high employment, it also achieves independence from fossil fuels. for these reasons, the proposal is to be approved, particularly because this approach explicitly distances itself from the application of genetic engineering.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr weber, you are ill-informed. we have discussed romania here, we have agreed to discuss bulgaria. it was a matter of timing. if you had said what i said to the socialists in bulgaria, if you had said that about hungary, those critical remarks, you or mr daul, i would take it back. but you can't confess to that. (applause from the centre) mr. prime minister, i'm glad you came. that's a sign that you're at least willing to talk in principle. but i was disappointed in your speech, because you've created the usual myths: the left votes against hungary. we are not voting against hungary. the vote for the tavares report is a vote for the freedom of the hungarian people and the rule of law in hungary. that's for sure. (applause from the centre) the commission has not only rejected the tavares report, but also the commission's work. i would like to ask you why you are not taking more action against the fact that mrs reding has been declared an unperson in hungary because she is fighting for justice and freedom. if you're fighting for it, you should be defending mrs reding in hungary. you said you had to defend and protect hungary. i do not know against whom, because they are members of the european union and part of this union, which must ensure the rule of law. if everything in hungary is a flourishing life, then i ask you: why do so many young, well-educated hungarians leave the country? why are there so many investors who don't come to hungary today when everything is so prosperous? why do you question democracy and the role of the parties, especially the opposition parties, if you are so much in favour of democracy and freedom? why did you question media diversity and have to change the law if you're so much for freedom? and why are more and more representatives of the jewish community coming to us if there is no anti-semitism in hungary? why aren't you against it? i do not blame you for promoting it, but if you put up more and more horthy statues, you should not be surprised if at the same time anti-semitism is increasing in your country, which i very much regret. (applause from the centre) yes, you have the right to advocate that fidesz always remain in government. but there are limits to that in a democracy. because democracy also means a change of political parties in the leadership of the government. that's what we mean by democracy. and i think you should accept that, too. for all these reasons, you did not go into the specific points raised by mr tavares, you rejected the report in general, you said that those who are for tavares are against hungary. i repeat: those who are in favour of tavares have the interests of the hungarian people at heart. because one thing still amazes me today - and i asked you the last time and you didn't answer - you started your political career as a freedom fighter, and i have to respect that. that was a really big thing you did as a young man. and i still don't understand why you want to restrict freedom in hungary today instead of defending it. we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it. because that's what it's all about. and as long as the commission is doing that, we will support the commission fully. no other country in the european union, mr orbán, has had to change so many laws relating to democracy and freedom. many countries need to change something, but that a country has to change its laws permanently because they violate european values and rights, that is unfortunately up to your government, and we are sorry! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think the legal uncertainty in hungary is something that scares off many investors. and you can come to austria, you can talk to austrian colleagues - this is not just my side, because i am not necessarily a representative of the economy - you will see that many are disappointed, many are considering retiring, and many who could create new jobs do not go to hungary because of the legal uncertainty. that is a fact, and you can ask many chambers of commerce across europe, you will get the same answer. and if you go to america, you'll find even stronger resistance to investing in hungary. that's a fact!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, after what mr orban said just now, i wonder whether he has read mr tavares’ report, because from what is in this report i really would have expected him to talk about some of the very critical issues that are in there and not just tell us all that this report is against hungary. as others have said before, prime minister orban, this report is a criticism – and a very necessary criticism, of your government and what your government is doing – and not of the people of hungary, whom we strongly appreciate and are friends with. there are a lot of hungarians who have been writing to us, telling us ‘please go ahead with that, because we need the support of the european union’. so, it is very clear. yes, and i am from austria, somebody is saying. i knew what it meant when in 2000 the european union was applying so-called sanctions against austria. i was very much in favour of that, i was so glad that the european union was looking at what was happening in my country. so these are our common values, these are our common standards, which i thought you were also fighting for when you were a dissident, mr orban. these are our standards that we need to defend and that is what we are doing right now. this report shows criticism of your government and not of the hungarian people; i want to make that really clear. what your government has been doing with the changes to the constitution and your activities is creating an environment of fear for people from minorities. for example, why did your government give the highest order of merit to a tv presenter who has been comparing roma people to monkeys or who has been talking about anti-semitic conspiracy theories? why in your constitution are you talking about a family which is only men and women and not single-parent families, children who live in families with grandparents or same-sex families? that is modern life, in hungary too. you are admiring the horthy regime all over the place. you and your government are preparing the ground for growing anti-semitism, homophobia and anti-roma sentiments. this is against european fundamental values and i would really urge you to accept this report as concern expressed by friends of hungary. the general trend being shown by your government is one that goes against these common values, which you and your fellow hungarians and former governments have also signed up to. mr orban, this report is not a serious danger; it is about the future of europe, as you have rightly said before. we need new mechanisms. much as i would love to have it here, article 7(1) does not work. we need new mechanisms and that is up to the commission. we need something to safeguard the values and standards that all of us here have fought for. we need our common efforts to safeguard our common values together. s (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i know there's a roma member of parliament in this house, and that's a good thing. there should be a lot more. but then why are so many roma people in hungary afraid? i was in one of the places where jobbik marched and the government did nothing about it when violence happened here. why do you say that there is this great minority protection in hungary? it's just not true. the same is true for the two-thirds majority. especially when a government has a two-thirds majority - and this is what colleagues from the european people's party told mr orbán at the beginning - then you have to be careful and not pretend that the country is yours and you can just drive over it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not hungary is a free country. i know! they applauded loudly. romania is a free country. and we have very much supported the idea of having a debate on romania. i, mr weber, have made it clear that i do not support everything the commissioner has said: if the commission has anything to say against romania, we will support it fully. i would say the same about bulgaria. bulgaria is also a free country. but if the commission sees that there are breaches of law and european values in bulgaria, we will support the commission. i've never heard you say that in any of these other cases. secondly, mr prime minister, you accuse the opposition of having introduced a right-left scheme, but you were the first to say that this is an attack by the left against hungary itself. so you can't be more partisan than you were in your first speech. i agree with mr weber on one point: we have not talked much about the details of the violations by the hungarian government. but i must say, the prime minister has not made any statement to the commission. you have denied the commission in the first place. you have denied the president of the commission and you have denied the vice-president, and you have also said nothing about the question. you have said something about two questions, i take note of that, even if i disagree with some of them. for others, it's economic laws or the failure to understand other things. but that is the essence of a free country in europe: to respect the rule of law and democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you hold this view, if that's true, then i have to say that there's something wrong with the view you have of democracy. at least that is what i have been told, but if it is not true, then you can make it clear that turkey is not a model democracy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the present socialist government of bulgaria has put that country in a sorry position by its approach to the selection and appointment of persons to the highest offices in bulgaria. the people are outraged, there have been protests every day for 20 days, as we heard. the question is why. first, the powers of the supreme security authority, which deals with intelligence matters, are extended to include the fight against the oau, without debate in parliament and then without parliament's control. the call for tenders then goes out with requirements that are far below the corresponding requirements for the post of director. the reason for this is made clear when a certain mr peevski, a media tycoon with very special relations and contacts, is appointed head of this security agency. it is unique in the european union that a man with these qualifications and these connections is made head of such an authority. the commission is well advised to look closely at this situation in bulgaria and to discuss it as we have done with hungary before.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. firstly, it is important that we as the european union show solidarity with the victims of the floods and, above all, that we provide aid quickly. now i hear that the aid for 2012 has not yet been paid out because there are obvious difficulties in the council here in releasing the funds that should not happen! we must simply try to make this mechanism, the european solidarity fund, work better and above all to get the money to the people faster, because rapid aid is always the aid with the greatest impact. secondly, i would like to agree with the commissioner that it is of course a matter of being as well prepared as possible. i was rapporteur for the flood directive that she initiated, and we have developed a three-step plan for how we can respond in a timely manner to these risks, which are likely to increase in the future. it is also up to the member states to ensure that this is properly implemented. that's the biggest flaw so far. the civil protection mechanism mentioned by the commissioner is precisely the right approach. i do not want to relieve the member states of their responsibilities, they are primarily responsible for these things, but we also need better coordination at european level and above all increased cooperation, partly under the leadership of the commission, so that we can respond to these risks in a timely manner. i would like to ask you again, especially in the case of aid, to give more gas here!
i have to say, madam president, the damage in austria amounts to about 2.5 billion euros, and in germany to about 18 billion euros. many are facing nothing, but no one resigns, everyone repairs - partly with emergency power and without clean water. i don't want to talk about the tens of thousands of volunteer firefighters who were on duty day and night. so civil protection has worked for us thank you very much to all the helpers! but what is the eu doing? it refers to an eu solidarity fund of up to one billion euros. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. something must be done about that! i expect a permanent increase in the maximum annual amount of funding through a special disaster clause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this does not increase the eu budget as a whole, but it does help the eu citizens, in this case not the banks!
i have to say, madam president, i was also part of the delegation to regensburg last weekend and i was able to see for myself what it really means when people lose everything, their entire existence, on the other hand what it means when people literally escape the flood. these are tragic stories! i think we all have to be clear that the people affected by the floods will receive immediate help and support - also from the european union and especially from the european union. it is right that the responsibility also lies with the member states. i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. there is a lot of expertise and a lot of potential here. and last but not least, i would like to remind you of the nature conservation that we really have to respect. with proper prevention, i think we can take steps today to prevent floods like this from happening again.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the families who have lost loved ones in the recent floods, but also with those who have lost their possessions. of course, a special thanks goes to all the emergency services who have really tried in the last weeks and months to keep the damage to a minimum and to help where it needs to be tackled. it is therefore also a great necessity that the funds of this solidarity fund should flow as quickly as possible. we need not only confidence in the financial support of the european union, but also confidence in cohesion. we cannot just make promises for the future, but we must see the money to make the necessary investments in infrastructure. but what we also need - and this has been mentioned by mr cofferati before - is risk management plans for flood prevention in europe that go far beyond what we have discussed in recent years. we see in areas of agriculture that the way we farm in europe is contributing to flooding events. we see that in areas of soil compaction, it helps to accelerate flooding. we also see in connection with soil compaction that measures must be taken in spatial planning. i am counting on you, commissioner, not only to get the money quickly but also to get a change in agricultural policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has been the driving force behind a global or european financial transaction tax for years. well-meaning is not yet well-made. the proposal at present is a cash cow for the finance ministers of the member states rather than an instrument of the european union's own resources, it distorts competition, it contradicts in some respects the regulation of financial markets keyword emir, basel iii , the strengthening of pension provision and it is insufficient in regulatory terms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. global deployment remains the objective; a financial transaction board of all 28 member states, because we need not only the 11, but also those who have to deal; a commitment of the revenue; the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but also to the capital needs of the bank. the tax rate on pension provision is to be reduced by 50%; the commission has also proposed that the taxation of off-exchange transactions be higher than that of exchange transactions in order to ensure transparency and regulation. i call on the commission and the finance ministers to follow the european parliament's report!
the european parliament has a clear position on taxation of the financial industry! we need this determination from the heads of government of the 11 member states! for months now, we have been confronted with suspected "horror studies" who are vehemently opposed to the financial transaction tax! we must not let the financial industry and speculators put us under pressure! the fact is, those who caused the financial crisis must also bear the cost of the consequences! we have to do it in the form we originally requested - without any special requests or exceptions! so it is not a symbolic tax, but a broad financial transaction tax covering all financial actors, all financial products and all financial markets! that means without exception for pension funds, derivatives, market makers and the repo market!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission presented its annual report 2011 on the protection of the eu's financial interests in accordance with article 325. the report highlights that the financial impact of fraud in 2011 was eur 404 million. i have a slightly better figure: a trillion euros of public money is lost every year in the european union through tax fraud and tax evasion. or to put it another way, the average amount of tax money lost is literally four times the amount the european union spends on education. so i wonder, how long are we going to sit here and watch? in view of the crisis, this money would be better spent on education and, above all, on helping the countless unemployed, especially young people. the young and the unemployed would then have a new perspective! (applause from the centre)
in writing. whether it was e. coli in 2011 or h1n1 in 2009 these crises have shown once again that health threats do not stop at national borders. in my home country of austria, 3,716 people were infected with h1n1 swine flu in 2009 alone, and 17 died. the problems of health crises in the european union are largely due to the different levels of preparedness and response in the individual member states. the fact is that the lack of genuine cooperation has weakened the eu-wide response to such threats as a whole. i am therefore pleased that the council has agreed to support and further strengthen the existing structures for early warning and response to health crises. we need a uniform cooperation of all member states to prevent and combat health crises effectively. the permanent exchange of information on the epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases and the extension of the coordination mechanism for communicable diseases to all health threats are important steps in this direction. the creation of a legal basis for the joint procurement of medicines and vaccines is certainly a major step forward. i hope that, as a representative of a relatively small country, this will help to give pharmaceutical companies more room to negotiate prices and other terms of purchase.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i'm not very enthusiastic about it, because we don't know what will happen in egypt after the debate today. it's possible the military will intervene. and then we have a debate, but no way to react afterwards. i think that is a little strange and i do not see the need to remove the debate from the agenda on thursday. we should at least leave open the possibility that we can come back to it on thursday.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the president-in-office of the council back into the chamber, but the circumstances are not easier; they are becoming more difficult. president-in-office, the recent data on youth unemployment shows that it is still rising; it was much lower when you left this house. we have a political crisis in several countries connected, of course, with the economic policies which we refer to as ‘extreme austerity’. in greece, for example, we still await the reopening of public radio and television stations; in portugal ministers are resigning because of the situation and the lack of support from citizens. the citizens no longer understand what europe is doing in these countries. the more or less politically motivated summit today in berlin will not change very much the dissatisfaction of many people, especially young people. now you are proud, and you can be proud of the success in lithuania and in all other baltic countries on overcoming the crisis. however, unemployment is still high and we know that the baltic countries, including lithuania, exported some of their unemployment to other countries. nevertheless i expect you and i would ask you to be helpful in overcoming this north-south divide we very often have. you have to show a good example in efficient administration and in the readiness for innovation in the digital economy you mentioned. i am not saying that we did it better than you, but it is a learning process – a mutual learning and understanding process – between the north and the south, and of course between east and west. i would like to take this occasion to emphasise the importance of the vilnius summit; i hope, also from this side of the house, that we see this as being geo-political and not primarily as party political, because it will be very important to bring countries like georgia and ukraine away from the hands of mr putin who is ready with one hand to give something and with the other to take something. we only have to give, but we should be ready and willing to make the summit in vilnius a real success. nevertheless, the social dimension for us in the socialist group is very important. i know there was some argument when the committee on employment and social affairs visited you to discuss the social dimension. however, it is not only us socialists who are involved; the imf is not a real socialist organisation. recent studies show that fiscal consolidation has typically led to a significant and persistent increase in inequality, declines in wage income and in the wage share of income, and increases in long-term unemployment. fiscal consolidation which is unduly hasty poses a risk to recovery and therefore countries with the scope to do so should opt for a slower pace of consolidation combined with policies to support growth. i am not against fiscal consolidation – not at all – but we have to have an economy and we have to have an emu which combines fiscal consolidation, growth and investment with the social dimension. i wish you success in the presidency, but for us the success of the presidency is connected with defending the social dimension. if people see the reality and see that their social needs are also met – and not only economic needs and money going to the banks and if people see support given to citizens, only then can we speak of success. otherwise we will have more and more crises. (applause)
mr president, i would like to welcome the president of lithuania and president of the new eu presidency, also as one of the few female heads of state that we have in europe and worldwide. madam president, in your programme you talk about a citizens’ europe, and rightly so. you talk about focusing on strengthening the protection of fundamental rights, raising public awareness of shared eu values. now, lithuanians fought for freedom of assembly, as so many other states did, to get away from the soviet empire, but now in your city, in vilnius, the mayor has banned pride, the march for lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender people which is going to take place on 27 july which i am also taking part in. non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is enshrined in the treaties and it is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, so i really do hope that you will go ahead and really put pressure as the president of lithuania, as the presidency of this european union, to make sure that lgbt people will be able to walk freely and unthreatened in the middle of your home town. that will also set a good example for the vilnius summit to the countries of the eastern partnership.
in writing. madam president of the council, i am pleased to hear about your ambitious programme for the lithuanian presidency. as the election of the ombudsman is also on the agenda of parliament today, i would like to draw your attention to a subject which was raised by the ombudsman as early as 2005 and which has been irritating many of my colleagues in parliament, as well as many citizens, for years. in times of tight budgets, it is understandable that calls for additional financial support are heard. but can the presidency of the council be sponsored by banks, oil producers, representatives of the automobile or food industry, in accordance with the independence and objectivity of the european institutions? are you convinced that the fact that you can enjoy certain products or services for free for months at a time does not affect your decision-making? do you think that in future the european idea will be financed through sponsorship and thus depend on the financial support of strong companies or organizations? do you not think that adequate own resources and transparent public funding are the best guarantee of independent opinion?
i have been informed that the president is on his way to a conference in berlin, to which he has previously agreed to attend. (disturbance in the hall)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it quite clear that president schulz is attending a conference on the fight against youth unemployment. this is an important subject, after all, and many of europe's leading politicians are attending this conference. the fight against youth unemployment is an important issue. (applause from the centre)
we shall now proceed to the voting. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
thanks for the heads-up. i shall act accordingly.
ladies and gentlemen, i must inform you that we have received many requests for oral explanations of vote. we are not allowed to continue this sitting until 2.45 p.m. at the latest, so that the services can make preparations for the resumption of the sitting at 3.00 p.m. all those who have come forward and i cannot take them before the time is up can give their statements tomorrow. i ask for your understanding.
in writing. the irish presidency of the council has brought to an end its six-month presidency of the eu budget negotiations in a disgraceful manner. in times of crisis, far too much money is still being spent on eu centralism. the irish also failed to make a real breakthrough in the tough negotiations on the contentious budgetary framework and agricultural reforms. the main beneficiaries are still large farmers and agro-businesses. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the aim of this recommendation is to simplify and speed up procedures and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these acts. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the environment.
in writing. − the aim of this recommendation is to simplify and speed up the commission's voting procedures and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these acts. the faster adoption of legislation will allow a faster response to regulatory requests from economic operators, which is in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. it is therefore an important task, especially in times of crisis. the present report is intended to make a technical adjustment to further increase the efficiency of the fund. i agree with the rapporteur that the financing of the measures proposed by the commission is appropriate as a technical support, to simplify the application procedure and to allow better access to the relevant data, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − as a result of the economic and financial crisis, many european companies were forced to reduce their workforce, resulting in a dramatic increase in unemployment across europe. in 2009, the number of unemployed persons in latvia increased by 2.3 times compared to the previous year. although statistics show that the unemployment rate in latvia has decreased slightly since 2009, both due to the improvement of the economic situation and the increase in emigration, it is still above the 10% threshold. the european union now urgently needs to boost employment growth to restore economic growth. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important support mechanism to help people who have lost their jobs acquire new skills to help them re-enter the labour market, and i therefore voted in favour of continuing the fund for the next programming period. it should be noted that unemployment is a problem faced by people in different employment sectors, both private and public. it is therefore important to provide that the funds of the fund are available both to employees and to employers whose undertaking has gone bankrupt. the fund is an important instrument to help the economy adapt to changing global trade conditions.
in writing. − the european globalisation fund (egf) was created with the objective of providing additional assistance to workers suffering from major structural changes to the companies and institutions where they are employed. the main purpose of the technical assistance for which the mobilisation of the egf was requested is to finance the monitoring, information and consulting/advice of member states on how to use, follow up and evaluate the egf resources. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that our eu citizens need all the support they can get, particularly in times of financial crisis, in order to stay active in the labour market.
in writing. − with regard to investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf), the aim is to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by olaf investigations, to increase the effectiveness of olaf investigations and to improve olaf's cooperation with eu institutions, member states and international organisations. the work of olaf is important, even if the recovery of funds wrongly spent is still not working properly. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − the european anti-fraud office (olaf) plays a central role in the institutional set-up of the european union; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. the absolute respect of the human and procedural rights of the persons concerned and any improvements in this area are also to be welcomed.
in writing. − the eu wants to regulate the conditions and operation of service providers (securities firms) and to set requirements for the issue of securities. the aim is to align the principles of sound remuneration policy with those of risk mitigation in the financial services sector. this is not fully covered in the present report, but it has been achieved in some respects. i voted in that spirit.
in writing. − in my opinion, the (main) objective of the directive is to increase the protection and transparency level for all ucits investors. because of the existing differences in the implementation of the ucits directive and in the liability of depositaries, the confidence of investors generally is undermined. this is a step backwards for our current european economic situation that immediately needs a ‘boosting strategy’. in my view an immediate solution would be consistent and uniform standards of protection for our investors, meaning consistent prudential and capital requirements. in this way the level of protection would be the same for all types of assets. i voted in favour of the amended proposal and of the referral back to the committee.
in writing. the emissions trading system (ets) involves the auctioning of emission allowances, known as allowances. the basic idea is that certain companies can only emit as much carbon dioxide as they have a right to, or they have to buy a right from a more economical company on an exchange. the eu-wide scheme, introduced in 2005, is designed to reduce emissions from production. the money raised from the sale of rights will be invested in research and development of less polluting technologies. since relatively little has been done in the field of renewable energy since the introduction of the emission allowances, and at the same time there has been an imbalance, with some countries complying with the requirements, but others still having very high co2 emissions, i voted against. it should also be noted that the certificate system is a threat to jobs in europe if only europeans adhere to climate protection standards.
in writing. − in recent years, the spread of new viruses, previously little known, such as the h1n1 virus or e. coli, has repeatedly demonstrated the potential for the rapid spread of new diseases throughout europe. in addition, there has been an increase in cases of drug abuse, counterfeit medicines being put on the market, or the placing on the market of defective implantable medical devices. if such risks are not adequately addressed, they could become a serious public health problem in the long term. i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the eu must take action and introduce control mechanisms to enable rapid response to emerging diseases. in addition, there must be much stricter control mechanisms in the field of healthcare to ensure the best possible care for patients.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a solid majority in the austrian parliament for a financial transaction tax, even though we know that the financial sector creates hardly any jobs, perhaps in the city of london, but nowhere else. i have nevertheless voted against mrs podimata's report for two reasons: the austrian position has always been that this requires reducing the contributions of the member states in the same proportion as the tax revenue in the respective country. and secondly - and this is an iron principle for me - the european union must not create its own resources. i therefore voted against the podimata report, although i am in principle in favour of introducing a financial transaction tax, because i believe that financial markets must be involved in the management of the crisis. but it must not lead to the european union organizing itself here through the back door of own resources.
in writing. - the idea of a financial transaction tax is a good one and should be supported. i have already stated this on several occasions in the relevant debates in this house. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. in addition, high-frequency trading must also be included, as it does not provide any appreciable added value for the economy and for people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not applied to the same extent to all types of pensioners. this was to be taken sufficiently into account in the decision.
in writing. − the ftt should be a harmonised and new ‘financial instrument’ that would bring new resources into the economy from our ‘own resources’ and would strengthen the single market. the ftt concerns the taxation of financial transactions within the eu member states, though only 11 member states have agreed to adopt the ftt until now. in my view the ftt would reduce the risks related to speculation on the financial markets, which (in the view of some economists/in my view) led to the actual financial crisis. secondly, the introduction of the ftt would raise the revenue of the national economies of the member states, meaning that a fair and substantial contribution would be made to public returns/revenues. the real economy is protected, because day-to-day financial activities and transactions (of ordinary citizens and business, like insurance, contracts, mortgage, credit card transactions, etc.) are excluded from the ftt.
in writing. − latvia formally fulfils the conditions for the introduction of the euro on 1 january 2014. the question is whether it does any good for the country. i doubt that very much. the developments so far have shown that the euro is a misconception and should in fact be dissolved as quickly as possible or reduced to a reasonable level in countries with similar economic data. although latvia could also be part of this area, i think it would be wrong to extend the euro area without carrying out the necessary reforms, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. the eu has also been active in the field of education and training since the early 1990s. economic reforms have been central to this progress. although the recent reforms in 2009-2010 included significant wage cuts and tax increases, these austerity measures were very successful and paved the way for latvia to emerge from the crisis. latvia is well integrated into the eu economy through trade and investment. in any case, the country fulfils the necessary criteria for the introduction of the euro, which was already formally agreed.
in writing. − although road safety programmes have proved successful, we are still far from the desired level of safety. in 2011, road accidents in the european union caused more than 30 000 deaths and almost 1.5 million injuries (including more than 250 000 serious injuries). so there's still a lot of work to be done. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission's position on the authorization of gigaliners is incomprehensible. these are a safety disaster, given the correspondingly longer overtaking distance and the four times higher risk of fatal accidents. the emergency number 112 mentioned in the report is unfortunately still little known and is far from perfectly functional. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i cannot therefore vote for the resolution.
in writing. − safety on europe's roads should be promoted by every conceivable measure to improve the current situation. this can prevent a large number of (serious) injuries and deaths. the most vulnerable road users in particular need special protection, and the training and efficiency of rescue operations are improved. this is very welcome in view of these innovations and injury prevention strategies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report is as unfair to hungary as anything else. it reminds me of the action of the three wise men from the euro-zone in 2000, which was ordered by the socialists at the time, when a government was elected by the people in austria in a free democratic election, which did not suit the socialists. neither austria nor hungary nor any other country of this european union is a colony of this european union. what is being done here is a new eurocratic colonialism which is really reminiscent of the eudssr and therefore this abbreviation is now more than appropriate. how would this parliament and the european union have reacted if viktor orbán had closed a public broadcaster, as happened in greece? i am not going to go into the details of the situation. but ridiculousness is what is putting viktor orbán and the hungarian people on the spot. this is a massive injustice against hungary and europe will pay a price for it. the eu mood will not improve in hungary and in other countries, the eu miscredit will increase!
in writing. - the eu's criticism of the hungarian government is pure hypocrisy. this is not about fundamental rights, but about challenging the right-wing prime minister viktor orbán, who consistently puts the legitimate interests of hungary at the centre of his policies. if the high-level brussels community of values were really so concerned about fundamental rights and the rule of law, it would also have to deal with austria. as you know, the members of the constitutional court are chosen on the basis of a red-black ratio. but the eu does not seem to mind that, because the red and black german government says yes and amen to everything that brussels headquarters prescribes. the eu commission should also be concerned about the very limited media pluralism in austria. the state broadcasting is firmly in the hands of the governing parties, and in the field of print media, diversity is less of a concern than synchronization. but because austria is not a country governed by the rule of law, the eu is kindly overlooking the conditions prevailing in this country. the report on the situation in hungary, which is entirely one-sided, shows once again what the fanatics of the eu think should happen to the independent states. they are being forced to give up their sovereignty and submit to the political dictates of brussels. this must be fought and rejected with all our might.
in writing. - the fundamental values of the european union, democracy and the rule of law, and human rights must be respected in all circumstances, and any practice to the contrary must be strongly condemned. if the negative situation in hungary persists, other measures must be taken in a timely manner.
in writing. − natural disasters have increased significantly in frequency, severity and complexity across europe in recent years. the damage caused by this is regularly in the billions. it should not be forgotten that many of the damage is extremely long-lasting, such as destroyed roads and infrastructure, houses that have become uninhabitable, massive damage to agriculture, etc. since the often dramatic impacts of natural disasters are due to human-induced activities such as sustainable deforestation, intensive agriculture, large-scale construction projects, urbanisation and sealing of land along rivers, etc., the report calls for greater emphasis on sustainable land use policies in the future. in addition, crossborder measures such as flood disasters must be able to be taken quickly and without bureaucracy. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − it is essential to prevent floods before they occur and to apply adapted agricultural and forestry practices, land use planning and soil absorption accordingly; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to help the regions in the event of floods. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a good one. finally, the tireless and exemplary work of rescue workers and volunteers is particularly noteworthy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with what my colleague mr tannock has just said. the report by ms mccarthy builds on the high-level expert report of october 2012 which, while arguing in favour of a separate banking system, fails to go as far as calling for a genuine separate banking system. it is not a separate banking system if i have joint marketing structures of sectors which are not linked together, or if i have the commercial institutions, i.e. commercial banks, and the speculative banks under the roof of a joint holding company. then i don't have a real bank system. but that's the basic premise. the report also does not, unfortunately, sufficiently cover the liability of speculators, because the state is still not preventing speculative transactions from being detected. i have nevertheless agreed to mrs mccarthy's report because it is in principle a step in the right direction, but i agree with what my colleague mr tannock said, that much more stringent action is needed here.
in writing. − the financial crisis was triggered by excessive risk-taking, excessive leverage, insufficient capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system as a whole. while these weaknesses can be addressed by regulatory reforms, the ultimate challenge is the legal separation of certain high-risk financial activities from deposit-taking banks within a banking group. it is not necessary to have a separate group of experts for this, as has been known for a long time. as history has shown, the eu's regulations, tests and so on are not reliable. in the financial crisis, some of the very banks that had performed well in the eu's banking stress test were a burden. for these reasons i cannot agree with the report.
in writing. − some economists and, in financial services, specialised bodies believe that the root of the financial crisis was the lack of a well-defined structure of the eu banking system. the main reasons for the failure of the banking system were, according to some opinions, the ineffective and insufficient regulations, corporate mismanagement and reckless risk taking in financial transactions. reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting interconnectedness between risky and commercial activities, creating a responsible remuneration system, enabling effective bank resolution and recovery, reinforcing bank capital and providing credit to the real economy would fulfil the terms and conditions of a well functioning economy, meaning in the same time a safe, stable and efficient banking system. another positive effect would be the boosting of economical growth and new employment opportunities for our citizens by providing and ensuring an adequate credit flow and transfer to the real economy, meaning more credit availability for smes and start-ups.
in writing. - agriculture and cohesion policy continue to be the areas where, according to the statistical analysis, the greatest number of fraud cases and financial damage occur. the estimated annual cost is eur 77 million and eur 204 million respectively. in total, 1 230 cases of fraud were reported in 2011, resulting in financial losses of eur 404 million. this corresponds to a loss of 37%. however, it cannot be assumed that fraudulent activities have actually decreased, as there is also the possibility that control mechanisms in individual member states have failed. the eu would need to harmonise these control mechanisms and the types of offences and their penalties in each eu member state in order to reduce fraud in the long term. as the report acknowledges, one criticism that cannot be ignored is that different member states use different definitions for similar infringements and that statistical data are not collected on commonly defined bases. a real comparison is therefore not possible. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance practices lead to losses, deficit and debt level increase in all member states. at the moment we have to fight against the financial crisis that is spreading throughout europe and we must generate development, growth and investments, create jobs and promote smes and start-ups. we have to encourage development. it is in the interest of our countries’ economies and citizens to have a stable and transparent tax system that helps us fight against tax fraud and evasion. in my opinion, member states (beneficiating from eu funds) with low recovery rates should speed up their procedures and make use of the available legal instruments and guarantees when irregularities are detected – this in order to have more money available for the areas in which they are really needed.
in writing. − in 2005, the commission decided to take action to create an integrated internal control framework to obtain a positive declaration of assurance (das). in the course of this, efforts were made to improve the internal control framework. the errors in the internal audit model have been highlighted in order to achieve an optimisation based on their significance. the action plan is intended to simplify the common principles of control and to prevent illegalities and irregularities, thereby achieving appropriate certainty as to the legality of transactions at each level of implementation of the eu budget. i agree with the rapporteur that there must be an action plan to bridge the gap between the existing audit framework and the audit model developed by the court of auditors. i abstained because i consider it necessary that the proposed action plan should set uniform objectives with defined deadlines in order to contribute to improving the audit and control strategies in the first place. there must also be a detailed list of the cost distribution of all parties involved.
in writing. − the commission's efforts to obtain a positive das decision from the court of auditors are welcome. the rapporteur has given a good account of the measures taken and of the progress and results achieved so far, which gives a coherent picture of the state of play. the rapporteur's proposal to develop a formal performance evaluation model, similar to the das of the court of auditors, which parliament could use to assess the granting of discharge, seems to be a worthy approach, not least for reasons of transparency.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by quoting portuguese president jorge sampaio, who said in a letter to the greek ambassador that the closure of the only public broadcaster in greece is an act of totalitarianism. and it is! reforming a station doesn't mean taking it off the air. no one has ever been able to explain that. the council presidency, the vice-minister, comes here and says that this is an internal matter for greece. we have spent days, weeks, discussing internal hungarian affairs. we are not going to do that with hungary, but with viktor orbán. the council presidency also says that it has no position on this, that it has not yet been dealt with. it's only been a month since the greek broadcaster was taken off the grid not reformed! it's not about reforming, it's about taking off the grid, that's a huge difference! the commissioner says that this is an internal decision of the greek authorities. what if orbán had done that, simply taken a station off the grid in budapest because the staff there didn't suit him? how everyone in this house would have run over him! it is an internal matter for greece! why would you do that? because, of course, the politics of the troika are behind it. that's the difference! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. in greece, the government's decisions are based on the policies of the troika, and suddenly the closure of a public broadcaster is no longer an internal affair. that is hypocrisy! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank mrs morvai for this suggestion. i would like to pass it on to the commission immediately. the commission would - if it were to examine the hungarian report critically and in the light of the actions of the greek government, and always use the greek government instead of the hungarian government - would see how unfairly it has treated hungary, and then it would see the different standards with which it treats member states of this union, and then it would see that it is trying to make hungary a colony of this union!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam pack, if the closure, this inappropriate measure by the greek government, has nothing whatsoever to do with the policy of the troika and with the policy of the commission, as you have said, what explanation do you have for the fact that greece is being treated so differently as the commissioner has also put it here today than, for example, hungary where hungary has done much less than take a station off the grid? do you have an explanation for this?
i have to say, madam president, for years the situation in greece has moved people and there have been heated debates, often based on undifferentiated judgments. this is also due to the fact that the public opinion towards greece is strongly shaped by those who bear the financial burden of the bailout. i do not deny that there is a certain logic to this. but there must be no distortion of the situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it also requires an objective assessment of the processes. it has unfortunately become clear that the exaggerated neoliberal policy of reducing the influence of the state, as promoted by the troika, does not produce the results it promises. on the contrary, it leads to social upheavals with unforeseeable consequences. against this background, the forced closure of the state broadcaster must be seen. excessive austerity policies, which do not even stop at restricting freedom of information, are harmful to greece and to europe as a whole, because they fuel instability and thus frustrate any consolidation. no one disputes the need for reforms, but they should not destroy public institutions but lead to a new quality of public accountability.
i have to say, madam president, we all know that waste and mismanagement are common in state enterprises, and not just in southern states like greece. we know this from central europe, including my home country of austria. the fact is that the austerity measures imposed on the greeks under the supervision of the troika are flourishing in a strange way. the closure of the state broadcaster is one of the curious consequences of a policy of austerity which is primarily affecting the population and is imposing a very heavy burden on them, and which has now also deprived them of public information. the greek people as a whole are really victims of a crisis, with the large amount of money that has flowed into greece from other countries apparently going only to bail out the banks and not to the people. public service broadcasters are of course important, but they are also in constant danger of becoming government announcers. that is why we must be careful that it does not become one when we set up a new public service broadcaster for greece.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, if i have understood you correctly, i am appalled. there was a time in europe when people said: 'if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear from the authorities.' do you think that time should come back? i don't think she should come back. i do not think you should think that either, madam president.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner reding, i brought you something today. because this is not just about the us and prism, it's also about the eu. unfortunately, the united states has gone from being the world's most wanted policeman to being the world's most feared spy. almost everyone, including friends, is being targeted. in reality, it is a global eavesdropping attack. there's a symbol for that, and it's a rabbit with long ears. i'm glad you're smiling about it, because it also has an eu flag on it. a rabbit with long ears is not only a symbol of a hearsay attack, but also of cluelessness. there's a saying, "my name is rabbit, i know nothing". you know that. the question is, mrs. reding, what did you know about these eavesdropping attacks when? why is the european union not better prepared for this? what are you doing to prevent exactly that from happening in the future? you're being called because i don't want you, mrs. reding, with all your dedication, to suddenly stop being mrs. reding and be called "my name is hare". if you do not act accordingly, the citizens will be pulling your ears. that's why i'd like to lend you this rabbit as a gift, to serve as a reminder and a warning until you have clarified the matter accordingly.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. how do you see the use of data, i.e. transparency? who's allowed to use the data anyway? who has the authority to do that? what is used for pure crime and terrorism? or what is being misused for economic espionage or for the extraction of financial secrets? how do you see it? i'd be interested to hear about that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so what we've been suspecting since the bug scandal of 2003, we now know for sure: the european union has also been involved in a number of other international agreements, including the international atomic energy agency (iaea) and the international atomic energy agency (iaea). we can no longer convince ourselves that we are an equal partner for the americans. and in the us documents, it should be written in black and white that we are at best classed as third-class partners. so much for the european union's importance in world politics! the european union is certainly not a supporter of terrorists, but it is a competitor of the americans on the world market. who knows to what extent us spy programmes have been used to spy on european companies with expensive know-how. i think it is shameful that the eu member states are playing the egg dance in this affair and the way they are behaving towards the whistleblower snowden. it is high time that the eu abandoned its role as a vassal to the americans and emancipated itself from the us in this respect. only then will the eu cease to be a laughingstock in world politics!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question for you, mr provera. they say intelligence agencies are successful if you don't catch them, and sometimes they just break the law a little bit. do you think that what happened in vienna, that the flight was denied, that it was obvious that a member state had asked to search the plane of the head of state of another country to determine whether the whistleblower snowden was on board, was a completely normal and appropriate measure within the framework of what intelligence services usually do? so i have to say, i don't understand what you're saying!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at present, it is still impossible to predict the scale of this scandal. but one thing is clear: europe's confidence in the united states has been seriously shaken, and this breach of confidence must not be taken lightly. we need to get all the facts on the table because we have a right to know how far the us, its intelligence agencies, even private companies are involved. the work of the transatlantic group of experts must be completed quickly, and, mrs reding, it must also include members of the european parliament. it is obvious that in these circumstances it is not possible to continue negotiations on the free trade agreement. and europe must now stick to the goal of a comprehensive data protection regime and resist all the lobbying attempts from the us that have taken place in recent months with unprecedented intensity!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm really upset! what i heard today was a presidency of the council saying, yes, we cannot say anything because the americans have not yet explained what happened there; i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so, but i am saying that it should be able to do so. and then it happens that in the middle of the night in european airspace a head of state, a president from brazil, is denied passage and has to make an emergency landing in vienna. these are states that do not have the rule of law, that are undemocratic and that have no backbone! if we keep this up, we shouldn't be surprised that the americans are spying on us. because they can do it, and nothing will happen. what we need is courage! we must say that if you do not respect us, there will be no free trade agreement and we will also withdraw from the other agreements. that's how you deal with them, not by saying, "thank you for spying on us".
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, it is the essence of a secret service to operate in secret, and so prism and tempora will surely be just the tip of the iceberg. but after the eu has learned that not only its citizens but also it itself have been bugged, there are many, many hypocritical statements to follow and it is therefore time to demand full disclosure. the violations of fundamental rights by the united states must be stopped and the bilateral negotiations suspended immediately as a clear sign for the future. prism and the fear of security are not new in history. and i would recommend that the united states -- and your conservative friends in this room -- focus a little bit on the thoughts of the founding fathers of the united states, who said that those who are willing to trade basic freedoms for a short-term need for security deserve neither and will surely end up losing both.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, obama is advising morsi to deal with the protesters. lady ashton is following the situation very closely and is deeply concerned everything so far, so good. but what good does that do the protesters? not very natural. because they are fighting for freedom, they are fighting against the dictatorship of the muslim brotherhood and precisely against this government, which in recent years has received over 1 billion euros from the eu to improve democracy and the protection of human rights - this is a mockery! and how can president van rompuy promise another 5 billion euros in january? we can't even trace the funding. 60% of the money is going down dark channels. it is clear that cairo has no interest in implementing the eu's demands. you don't want to be told what to do, but you still want the money. the allocation of financial resources should therefore be subject to clear conditions. and those who do not accept it are not entitled to any financial support.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission! as we all know, information systems have become absolutely indispensable for political, social and economic interaction. their functioning is crucial for personal comfort, for competitiveness and, of course, for innovation in the economy. the more important these information systems are, the greater the risk of attacks by individual criminals or even criminal organisations. and these attacks are taking place. the commission has carried out investigations and found that the annual damage within the european union is now about eur 300 billion. the risk of criminal attacks is as great for the private sector as for the public sector, but especially for critical infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information systems are protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's criminal law is not violated. and they're supposed to be a deterrent. but what we need to do is to have the necessary tools to prevent and combat cybercrime, and so i can point out how important it is that we have set up this cybercrime centre at europol, that we have enisa. but we must strengthen and expand these institutions, in addition to the legal instruments, with skills, money and personnel. i am convinced that with the directive and with these instruments, if we use them properly, there is indeed a chance that we can protect ourselves in the union from cybercrime better than we have done so far.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. attacks on information systems, especially in the area of critical infrastructure, can cause significant damage. europe must be more decisive in confronting these dangers. this directive lays down measures in the field of criminal law and coordination between public authorities. the security of information systems can be improved in a number of ways. the information management of security vulnerabilities in the event of attacks is a point which we should continue to address. the approximation of the penal provisions for attacks and the improvement of cooperation between authorities, as provided for in this directive, is an important building block for improvement. it also needs to be clear that there are legitimate purposes for using fundamentally harmful technology and attacking systems, primarily, of course, testing systems, looking for vulnerabilities so that they can be fixed. this is also made clear in recital 9. it would have been desirable to have had an explicit provision in the law itself. the need to comply with data protection rules should be taken for granted in our context. in this respect, it is very welcome that parliament has been able to make significant improvements in these areas.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, i would also like to say that we appreciate the compromise that has been found and are glad that it has finally been done. i would also like to mention that it would be great if georgia used the eu money not just for economic adjustments, but also for ecological transformation, for example investment in renewables and energy efficiency, which is also important for economic renewal. i would like to make some political comments, however. in a recent visit to georgia by the committee on foreign affairs (afet) we found that the new government that has been elected has clearly confirmed the european way that georgia wants to go. nevertheless, there have been some developments that have caused concern recently. there has not really been an investigation into the dreadful events of 17 may which were led by some members of the orthodox church and targeted the lesbian and gay community. there is also some concern about the way some members of the former government have been put on pre-trial detention and the arrest of officials. i hope that this is not going to be seen as some form of political revenge.
mr president, the digital single market is essential for economic growth and competitiveness in europe. progress has already been made since the agenda was presented but in order to really achieve this goal, providing maximum consumer choice and freedom, further efforts in the field of accessibility, protection of neutrality, data portability and data protection are needed. in an efficient single market, it is necessary for each consumer to have access to internet services and content. eu-wide broadband provision and universal and equal access to high quality and fast internet services for all citizens are essential for a high level of participation of all consumers in the digital single market. achieving more economic, social and cultural innovation requires the development of a clear, simple and flexible copyright and licensing system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what internet users have known for a long time has now been confirmed by an eu study: users do not get the download speed they pay for from their providers, but only two thirds of it. as we know, mobile operators secure themselves in contracts with clauses such as bandwidth corridor. of course, the actual transmission speed depends on a number of factors: distance from the switch, cable quality, electrical installations nearby, number of connections, etc. the majority of users are not interested in guaranteed performance, but in what is generally available. you can live with a drop in performance in between, as long as it happens infrequently. but unfortunately, this is what happens more often in rural areas, where many people depend on good connectivity and, for example, work from home to earn a living due to the lack of local jobs or where, for example, purchases have to be made via the internet due to the lack of existing infrastructure. in the follow-up studies, we should therefore include more of the regional distribution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. today, in the european parliament, we are voting for nothing more and nothing less than improved access to health, medicine, care and nursing care for people in need of protection, of whom there are not a few in europe. at the same time, we are also strengthening the european social model, which is the world's leading, by far the best. as a shadow rapporteur, i would like to thank rapporteur lambert for her professional cooperation. the commission is also to be thanked for having recognised in the crisis that action is needed and that initiative must be taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european semester will have to pay particular attention to this accessibility and quality of care in the future. prevention and lifelong healthy aging - to put it in german - are to be implemented from school to the workplace and into retirement. the performance of family members in care - as we know, mainly women, mothers, daughters - is given a corresponding importance in the family area and they must be offered framework conditions that include caring leave and similar relief methods. i am proud to say that today in the austrian parliament a new regulation and an extension of the nursing leave and the part-time work are being decided. the commission should be invited to develop this framework for carers' leave. it is an initiative that must be implemented. new technologies such as telemedicine are equally important, as are skills and best practice training, which must become the norm. it's a huge job opportunity for the younger generation. i would like to conclude by saying that, in general, benchmarking must become mandatory for european member states and that the european council must finally abandon its block on the anti-discrimination directive. we owe it to the people, especially the vulnerable.
i have to say, madam president, two and a half million people without health insurance, who cannot afford to see a doctor, hospitals lacking doctors and medicines, children who are not vaccinated - that sounds like a third world country, but in fact this is the situation in the eu member state greece! if not for the many greeks who have joined together and started self-help initiatives to provide medical treatment or simply food to people in need, there would surely have been a massive humanitarian crisis. newly trained medical staff, for example in the care of the elderly, who are no longer able to earn their living locally, are increasingly migrating to other eu countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a shame that the eu is providing medicines to every crisis area in the world, that almost every asylum seeker is receiving basic medical care, but that brussels is allowing its own citizens in eu territory to receive little or no help at a time of need. european solidarity should perhaps be used less for bank bailouts and more for the support and medical care of children.
i have to say, madam president, the 112 emergency number is a very positive achievement. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. unfortunately, the number is unknown, i checked with the colleagues. it is not accessible to all, especially to people with disabilities. it is also a symbol of europe's inability to solve problems. i do not understand why it is not even possible to establish a common emergency number. it could actually be a symbol of something that we can do together. in this sense, i think it is very important that we finally do this.
i have to say, madam president, in principle, a pan-european emergency number is a fairly viable solution. however, the lack of publicity makes it imperative to use the national numbers in parallel. the efficiency of handling and forwarding incoming calls will therefore be all the more important. secondly, a similar speed and professionalism in processing and forwarding should be achieved between the different eu member states. it's essential in an emergency. on the other hand, it is important to avoid the commission inadvertently destroying existing and well-functioning practices in individual member states - austria, for example - by imposing rigid generalized requirements. routine would be replaced by chaos. accordingly, i call for a results-based assessment approach in the definition of efficiency criteria for the 112 service chain in other words, regular eu-wide sample checks with criticism, with praise, but also with a problem ranking instead of a flood of rules that are out of the question. only then can we meet the expectations of the citizens for a single emergency number!
i have to say, madam president, if the convergence of internet and television is to succeed under the banner of connected tv, then i believe that ease of use and an intuitive user interface would be essential for the success of intelligent networked devices. in any case, it is clear that the classic concept of the television channel in the world of networked television is probably only more history. there are a variety of ways in which content can be delivered and also consumed on networked television, from the accumulation of links on catch-up tv websites and media libraries of the broadcasters and apps that specialize in certain types of content, to pages in social networks dedicated to individual shows. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. for example, it is questionable whether this european legal framework is currently sufficient in the areas of advertising and youth protection. the challenge, of course, is whether national regulators can really keep up with technological developments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to tell the house that we have just found a solution in the conference of presidents, which my colleague mr brok also agreed to, namely the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in cooperation, i am sure, with the committee on foreign affairs and a number of other committees. so we have a unanimous vote in the conference of presidents which rejects this proposal, with the agreement of mr brok.
in writing. - after a long debate, the council, the commission and parliament reached agreement on the procedure for granting macrofinancial assistance of eur 46 million to georgia. the formal requirements agreed to a more stringent formulation for the disbursement of aid. i do not agree with some of the points in the agreement and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. the report aims to reach an agreement and to provide for stricter wording for the disbursement of aid. the commission also proposes to use an advisory committee for assistance, starting at eur 90 million, to provide greater legal certainty.
in writing. − protecting our information systems from cyberattacks is essential in today's world. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
in writing. the revelations about the widespread surveillance and violation of the privacy of millions of eu citizens by the us are both shocking and incredible. it is more than shameful that a state which is playing the role of a defender of freedom and democracy and of fundamental rights in the world should resort to such methods. the european union has a duty to help the victims of terrorism and to help the victims of the holocaust. we must prevent this by all means. the eu must therefore not only demand full disclosure from the united states and its president, under threat of appropriate consequences, of the specific interception measures and monitoring mechanisms used, but also reconsider its relationship with the united states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. in the long term, the eu will have to rethink its strategic orientation.
in writing. - the present report by mr duff is a non-legislative resolution from parliament to the other eu institutions, the council and the commission, and to the member states, setting out the demands (desires and preferences) of the pro-european members of our house. the aim is to give the eu election a more centralised appearance, for example by indicating the name of the european political party to which a candidate may belong or by 'encouraging' eu parties to campaign for elections, subject to the rules in force. the national electoral systems are decisive, however, and they must be amended for each change. the only thing to do in the run-up to the european parliament's election of the commission president, which will take place after the european elections, is to identify the candidates, who are always chosen from among the major european party families. duff hopes that they will then launch a 'european' campaign, as they always do. it all sounds very theoretical. thank god, because the electoral reform planned and promoted by duff was overturned in committee in time. although there is no change in the status quo in law, this report once again clearly demonstrates the centralistic ideas of the eu fanatics, which is why it is clearly to be rejected.
in writing. − there has long been a desire on the part of eu citizens for more information, more transparency and more opportunities for participation. the citizens should have ample opportunity to learn about the programmes and projects as early as possible, to form an opinion and to participate actively in european democracy. the european parliament and the council are expected to adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council on the european parliament's role in the european union.
in writing. − the joint motion for a resolution on the export of military goods contains some important points which highlight and emphasise the importance of a common eu-wide approach. i think this is very important, because it is sobering to see how - in the case of syria, for example - some countries try to undermine or circumvent a common position in order to do business. if the eu countries have agreed not to supply arms to a country like syria, which is in the midst of a civil war, then all the member states must also abide by that agreement. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we must continue to allow arms exports, but only under clear and common rules. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment.
in writing. the report deals with the opening of negotiations on a plurilateral agreement on services. it should be noted that services account for almost three quarters of gdp and jobs in the eu and are crucial to maintaining and increasing eu competitiveness. the eu is the world's largest exporter of services. in 2011, 28% of eu exports were services and accounted for more than half of foreign direct investment in third countries.
in writing. - there is now a wide variety of ways in which content can be provided and thus consumed on networked television. networked television therefore also poses challenges to the european legal framework. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the present resolution does not deal with a number of points in this connection. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i did not vote on paragraph 39 of this resolution, since it deals with the european sale act (cesl). the european law of sale is currently being discussed in the legal affairs committee and the internal market committee and negotiations are still ongoing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also in favour of strong consumer rights under the european commercial code.
in writing. − this report deals with the completion of the digital single market. the full potential of the digital single market is crucial for competitiveness. the eu must act to maintain global competitiveness, especially in high-growth sectors such as internet platforms and the software industry. new technological developments require reliable and fast infrastructure networks to deliver benefits to citizens and businesses. big data applications are increasingly important for eu competitiveness. by 2016, it is expected to generate €16 billion in sales and create an additional 4.4 million jobs worldwide. the eu economy is undergoing profound structural change that has implications for global competitiveness and its labour markets.
in writing. − there is an urgent need to strengthen democratic control and accountability in the eu. the massive democratic deficit cannot be remedied by the present measures. and just considering how many years in a row the european parliament has failed to give the commission a discharge for its mismanagement, this shows the state of relations between parliament and the commission. the present resolution will not help to improve the situation. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - the eu has made a lot of money available in connection with the democratization process in egypt, but has done too little for christians. these were attacked massively after the fall of the dictator and are certainly the target of attacks again now in the chaos of the military coup. i am therefore not in a position to give my full support to this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the road from a colony to a democratic state is certainly very difficult, but this does not justify the constant violations of human rights, which have been happening for some time now: mass arrests of the opposition, violent repression of demonstrators, oppression of women, etc. etc. the eu is planning to invest €40 million in desalination plants, but is overlooking human rights violations, perhaps because djibouti is a strategically important country in the fight against piracy and because it is seeking a partner to secure the trade routes around the gulf of aden. but that must not be an excuse for trampling on democratic values! the european union is therefore calling on the djiboutian authorities to immediately lift the restrictions on opposition activists, release political prisoners and finally publish the results of the parliamentary elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for four years, the radical boko haram in nigeria has been waging a bloody battle for an islamic state of god. since then, the terrorist group has been responsible for the deaths of some 4,000 people. it is the second most deadly terrorist group in the world. the eu must work to bring the massacres of boko haram before the international criminal court, because they are an attempt to massacre christians and all those who oppose an islamic state. the attacks are thus a crime against humanity. finally, nigeria cannot be viewed in isolation. we need a strategy to combat islamic terrorist groups for the whole of the sahel, for the whole of west africa, not just in military terms but also in economic and social terms. there are clear links between boko haram and al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb. and both groups - boko haram and al-qaeda - are threatening peace and human rights throughout the region and thus threatening europe. they represent an acute threat to peace and security in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a request to postpone the zanoni report on the environmental impact assessment, which was referred back to this house last week because we believe that it can be better dealt with at the october i plenary. the point is that we as a large group need a certain amount of time for debate, and i believe that this pre-emptive approach prevents us from exercising our democratic rights in this respect. i am aware that for formal reasons this request could be rejected. but mr president, as a democrat, i am sure you can understand this desire for debate, and secondly, the eia directive is already 25 years old. it is a matter of revision, a month longer would not be of much use. i therefore formally request that this report be postponed to the original date.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not you stated at the beginning of the meeting that there would be further talks - under your chairmanship - to find a solution. i hope, of course, that an agreement will be reached and that it would be sensible to discuss it in the committees or in the group and then vote on it on thursday. if there is no agreement, we can postpone this point again, but i hope that there will be an agreement and that we can then vote on thursday.
mr president, i am not against having the discussion tomorrow or on wednesday or whenever the debate is. i have nothing against that. but we need time and clarification concerning the commission declaration about suspension or not. if what is written in the media is true then it is a scandal and it is a violation of our agreement. therefore, could we have a discussion this week but ask the commission to come back in october with a clear declaration after they have done their research? if what is alleged has happened it would be a really gross violation and would endanger cooperation with the us. that is not acceptable. i am not against having a discussion but i want to have the commission declaration in october after a sincere scrutiny of what really happened. we need to know the real truth.
mr president, i would like to make a supplementary request to what has already been requested here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to point out that as cruel as the situation in camp ashraf may be, the situation in guatemala, for example, is at least as dramatic. this is about a former dictator! and i would like to point out that we are currently in the midst of a trial in my home country against a possible murderer of the death squads from guatemala. this is very topical. and so is bahrain! i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have to take that into account, of course. i must of course also note your strict interpretation of mr seeber's motion. we would have liked to have put forward the proposal to put the tobacco directive back on the agenda, but it was rejected because we were 20 minutes late. but it is a little strange to set the deadline for 4 p.m. when we have the group meeting at 4 p.m.! i think we should consider together, in the spirit of the democracy of parliamentary consultation, that in future we should not set the deadline at the same time as the beginning of the group meeting. that would be more democratic, because i would like to discuss with the group how things should be done. then we'd come to a better decision.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are over 16 million international couples in europe - couples with different nationalities. it's because of a success story: the borders are becoming increasingly blurred, and with them more people living abroad in the eu, and as the population increases, so do the corresponding international couples. the path to the authorities for these couples is not very difficult, however, without a . and this new regulation saves a lot of nerves, money and double-track procedures. the most important objective is to respect the equal treatment of marriage and same-sex partnerships, so that there is no discrimination against same-sex couples. the european parliament and the negotiating team, mrs thein and all the other members, have done this. and once again it has become clear how important the european parliament's amendment is to ensure that there is no discrimination.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this decision was a difficult birth. the negotiations were long and involved the use of abbreviations, suffixes, translations of various expressions, etc. why was that so difficult? whenever it comes to property, it gets tricky. secondly, marriage, family, partnership, same-sex partnership are all ideologically charged concepts. that makes a solution, a discussion, all the more complicated. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for her exemplary effort to return to the principles which we are called upon to take into account in our work. that is the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities. we were very concerned about bringing marriage and partnerships - whether same-sex or opposite-sex - on the same legal basis. this is relatively difficult in some cases where they are not generally recognised. but here we have, i think, a rather solomonic solution. and i hope that our position will be adopted by a large majority here.
in writing. one of the objectives of the stockholm programme is to enable citizens to assert their rights throughout the union. common minimum standards are intended to strengthen mutual trust. so much for the theory. and what is the practical situation? what about the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial, which are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights? the situation looks bad, as the snowden case has shown, when human rights, such as access to legal aid, are thrown overboard on eu soil in blind obedience to the us. especially since london has used the terrorism provisions to crack down on unwelcome journalists. will all family members, friends and co. of journalists and critics of the system be blacklisted in the future? is it becoming fashionable throughout the eu to confiscate documents relating to a scandal so that nothing is published? such approaches are anything but trust-building. on the contrary, it is something that only dictatorships have done. the eu must shed its us-like allegiance and finally stand up for human and fundamental values. and not just on paper, but in their actions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the problem of the tank-plate we are facing here raises many questions, many ethical questions, and i am happy to agree with my colleagues. the only thing i do not agree with is that we are going to solve this problem with this proposal for a directive. we all know that 30 to 40% of the food here in europe ends up in our garbage cans unopened. i emphasize "opened". we should also address this problem and not think that we can now solve it with a technical iluc factor which, as i said, is based on very weak scientific principles. i would also like to say to mr eickhout that we as the epp are very reliable and mrs klaß has always stressed in the negotiations that we do not feel bound by the envi vote and are trying to get a different decision here in the plenary. i also do not believe that the world's biofuel production is comparable to that of europe. there are differences here which we must take into account in this legislative work. i would also point out that biofuel production in europe creates a great many 'by-products' which are used in other agricultural uses, including livestock production, such as gluten, etc. all of this must be taken into account. and so we are quite quick to conclude that we are not really achieving the desired result with this compromise as concluded in envi. we shall act accordingly in the vote.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to let you go. i may have misunderstood. i said, there's a lot of food being thrown away. i do not deny that the proposal also includes multiple invoicing for waste products. that's for correction. but now to my question: don't you think that we need this first generation of biofuels now just to get to the second and then the third? and if we are actually cutting off all expansion in the first generation through this package of measures, the necessary investment and also the knowledge to introduce the second and possibly the third generation, which i think is the most sensible, are simply not there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the use of renewable energy sources only makes sense in my view if there is no damage to the environment or if the final result is a positive ecological balance. the environmental impact of nuclear-powered electric cars, for example, is questionable. the eu must provide meaningful overall concepts to put the right power plant in the right place under the right conditions. the increase in the share of biofuels should take account of climate protection, but a number of factors seem not to have been taken into account. the fact that in recent years there has been a rush to build new cars that are unsuitable for certain biofuels is proof of this. europe is currently a net importer of foodstuffs, so the use of agricultural land for energy production should be carefully considered and thought out. in many cases this makes sense, if the remaining raw materials can be used as feed which would otherwise have to be grown as well. that's what we should be looking for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (speaker speaking without a microphone) [...] are now quite common. in the context of environmental and climate protection, renewable energy sources are the central pillar of a renewable electricity system. the problems so far have been mainly the irregularity of electricity generation and transport. i therefore believe that decentralised small and mediumsized plants have enormous potential for the future. but as we all know, mini-operators have a hard time. the cost of eco-energy machines is usually much higher than that of fossil-fuel plants in the comparable range of performance. often additional cost components such as grid connection, construction, maintenance and repair are difficult to estimate. the planned targeted support for environmentally friendly small and micro-power stations is certainly a step in the right direction towards a regenerative economy. and if it actually becomes easier, for example, by creating ways to feed decentralized electricity into the grid, and if it becomes easier to supply the neighbor or even to build a common plant, then i think a lot has been gained.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission! the principle of equal pay for equal work was born in the same year as me. i am now in the "late stages of adulthood". the principle of equal pay for equal work is still in its infancy, perhaps in its teens, but it has certainly not yet reached the adult world where women really receive equal pay for equal work. it would not be tolerated or uncritical of any minority if a minority, whether ethnic, religious or sexual, were to earn much less simply because of belonging to that group, as women do. commissioner, you promised - as has already been said - that a bill would come from you, we just don't know it yet. but it's not just unfair that men, on average, earn as much for 12 months of work as women do for 14 to 15 months of work, it's also economically stupid. women are generally more socially responsible in their spending than men. it is important that there is a bill. more transparency, disclosure of salaries and sanctions for the public service, but also for private companies. we will finally succeed in ensuring that women are no longer treated as children, but that they are actually paid an adult wage for adult work.
ladies and gentlemen, before the next speaker, i should like to say that since almost everyone is over-running the time of the debate by 20 to 30%, i can only take five people in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, as is planned anyway.
when i have the list, i'll make a decision.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 september 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 150 of the rules of procedure).
that concludes this item.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr michael cramer on promoting a european transport technology strategy for the future of mobility in europe (2012/2298 (ini)) (a7-0241/2013).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 september 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr mojca kleva kekuš on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy (2013/2038 (ini)) (a7-0271/2013).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 september 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr guido milana on a strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian sea (2012/2261 (ini)) (a7-0234/2013).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 september 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by esther de lange on 'more efficient and cost-effective interpreting services in the european parliament' (2011/2287 (ini)) (a7-0233/2013).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 september 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his very constructive work on behalf of european consumers. housing loans this is a topic that we have been dealing with for a really long time now. this has been a subject of debate in the european parliament not only since the crisis but even before it began. at that time, the main focus was on increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the crossborder mortgage market, which is a very large market, representing some 47% of european gross domestic product. the debate on housing loans has taken on a new dimension with the crisis in the financial system. the weak lending in the past was a co-factor in the crisis. ireland was on the verge of bankruptcy. these bad loans are still a burden on european banking institutions. the impact is still uncertain. it is therefore very important that we should discuss here today the issue of better consumer protection and responsible lending.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have learned all the lessons of the financial crisis, without ever having a short memory. in particular, people who have behaved throughout this crisis, from the beginning and for many years, without any moral or ethical basis, endangering the lives of thousands of citizens and taxpayers around the world. since 2010, with this determination that i had committed to, we have put together this regulatory architecture to bring back transparency where it didn't exist, accountability, rules, and finally, in a way, some morality where it had completely disappeared. all these commitments are in line with what we have decided at the highest level of the global economy the g20 and with the international recommendations of the financial stability board, the icso and the basel committee. all this was reiterated by the 20 leaders of the world's major economic powers a few days ago in st petersburg. i think it is necessary and right that the first item on the agenda of every g20 summit, as in st petersburg, should be to take stock of the implementation of what has been decided over the last five years. in any case, europe is fulfilling the commitments it has made and is almost at the end of the road. that is why, mrs mccarthy, ladies and gentlemen, the text you are debating today, this regulation which i have proposed to you, is an important element on market abuse. it brings transparency and accountability. we had to adapt this european text, which was too weak, because the world has changed - as arlene mccarthy said - trading platforms have multiplied, financial and commodity markets are becoming more integrated, and all new technologies are obviously moving faster than the ability of public authorities to monitor them. finally, more recently, we have discovered what no one, or few, had imagined: these scandals of manipulation of benchmarks, such as libor, which undermine the confidence of both citizens and investors. that is why i have proposed that we strengthen sanctions, with the aim of deterrence, repression and, where necessary, in some cases, imprisonment for those who behave in the most outrageous manner. we have therefore proposed this revision of the market abuse directive in the form of a proposal for a regulation to go faster. i am very pleased that the council adopted a political agreement with parliament on this draft regulation on 26 june and i would like to express my sincere thanks to arlene mccarthy, but also to sharon bowles, to the various fictitious rapporteurs, mrs pietikäinen, mr klinz, mr giegold and mrs swinburne. your work has also enabled us to improve, as is often the case, existing legislation, including my own proposal. the regulation takes account of the developments on the financial markets which i have just mentioned, in particular the new trading platforms, mtfs and otfs, over-the-counter transactions, co2 emission allowances. it adapts our framework to the new technologies of high frequency trading as much as possible and ensures that new forms of market abuse made possible by these new technologies are clearly prohibited. finally, and this is important to me, the regulation deals with the volatility and financialization of commodity markets, which are also subject to too much manipulation. i am therefore very pleased that this regulatory framework has been extended to cover market abuse in both commodity and derivatives markets. this is a very significant change, as is the very last response i proposed to you - and you supported it - to the libor scandal and the manipulation of benchmarks, which will be the subject of a new, extremely strict regulatory framework that i will propose, together with the european commission, next week. dissuasion is an essential element in the fight against abuse. it involves the detection of abuse, severe sanctions and, where necessary, prison sentences. the regulation gives the competent authorities the necessary powers to detect abuses and conduct investigations, while naturally respecting the very wide diversity of national legal systems and the fundamental rights of citizens. i would like to thank parliament for supporting this increase in administrative sanctions. to give just one example, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of imposing fines of up to 15% of turnover is a very clear signal that such market abuse and manipulation is unacceptable and will no longer be tolerated. i know that parliament would have wished to go further. i can understand that. that is why we have included a clause for revision, which will probably allow us to come back to this point. finally, a word on the directive on criminal sanctions for market abuse, which is part of this package of proposals. i know that parliament wants to make progress in the trilogues on this text as well. that is also my concern and i hope that we can make significant progress with the lithuanian presidency to complete this text, which is part of the package, with mif 2 and the directive on criminal sanctions that i have just mentioned. these are two important texts and so we have a lot of work to do together on this subject in the coming days and weeks.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, i have to say something. the european union has created a market-based instrument in its fight against climate change - the european emissions trading system. and this system is 80% covered by the mifid directive. the regulation under discussion here also incorporates the remaining 20%. it therefore concerns the unregulated spot and primary markets. the ets has, of course, various specific features. the disclosure requirements which in other markets are primarily for issuers are here imposed on market participants. the issuers are the states, or in the third period, the commission. these disclosure obligations are of course intended to apply only to those market participants which have an influence on price formation. the ets market is structured in such a way that approximately 7% of the participants are responsible for 80% of emissions and approximately half of the allowances are used by, say, 20 companies. it is therefore sensible to introduce special rules here, but it is of course important that we also sanction market abuse accordingly so that this market can function properly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, congratulations to arlene mccarthy on this important piece of legislation to regulate the financial markets. for the first time, there is an eu-wide definition of insider trading, stronger enforcement powers for supervisory authorities and a certain degree of european supervision. but the most important thing about this piece of legislation is that it brings more confidence in financial markets and greater investor protection. trust has a dual role. financial market participants must also be able to rely on the accuracy of the benchmarks. if banks have manipulated the libor rate or the isdafix and possibly the swap transactions at the same time, that is a scandal and there is not much left of the confidence in the financial markets. the confidence of investors and european citizens can only be won if all member states are obliged to participate and to impose tough, dissuasive sanctions. this is the only way to ensure the integrity of europe's financial markets. this regulation says that market abuse includes any illegal activity on financial markets. but this sentence must now be filled with life. the european institutions and the member states are called upon to initiate, adopt and implement existing initiatives, such as the regulation of shadow banking, without further delay.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a decades-long kassandra-rufer in the financial markets, you have had to rub your eyes recently: the manipulation of the interbank libor index, the manipulation in the oil and gas sector with the subsequent investigations at bp, statoil and platts, further manipulation in the derivatives and commodity markets. this was also a consequence of the misunderstood neo-liberalism in the tradition, it must be said, of tony blair and gerhard schröder. arlene mccarthy is now one of those who can go down in the history books in the regulation of financial markets as one who comes from a group and turns from saulina to paulina. it is good what she is proposing, it is very pleasing! the scope, the unification of definitions, the penal provisions - we are on the right track. it's embarrassing enough that the u.s. already has much stricter regulations than we do. but there's still a lot of work to be done, arlene! it is a great pity that the commissioner sitting here - and perhaps you can address him again - did not present the regulation on the area in which you are mainly active, in the area of the too-big-to-fail and the liikanen report, as announced in june.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask the honourable member two questions as a person concerned and as a national of a country which is somewhat affected by this opening up of the western balkans. you spoke with great enthusiasm about the opening up of the western balkans through visa liberalisation. i would like to know whether you have followed the situation in neighbouring countries in particular - i am speaking of my home country, austria - as well. we have noticed that hundreds of buses with people who had just come to austria as tourists, as visitors from the western balkan countries, have returned empty. the travelers went into hiding and never returned to their home countries. do you know that and can you imagine what that really means for the people affected?
i have to say, madam president, one of the main achievements of the lisbon treaty is the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, which is equivalent to the objectives of completing economic and monetary union and the internal market. it was therefore only logical to subject this area to the co-decision procedure. this is a fundamental consideration which we must bear in mind when we discuss today the amendment of council regulation no 539/2001. in this context, facilitating access to visas is therefore no longer in the national interest. a common area of freedom, security and justice requires a community strategy and thus the cooperation of the council, parliament and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it would therefore be in everyone's interest to strengthen this european aspect, and above all in the interest of the european parliament. the rapporteur, whom i greatly appreciate for his factual work and who has also done a great deal of positive work in the context of this report, has unfortunately ended up taking the opposite position and has not taken this european perspective as seriously as he should have. that is why we must reject his report, because we all hope that we can bring the rights of the european parliament back into this debate in a second reading!
i have to say, madam president, when the european parliament supported this visa exemption for south-eastern european countries in 2010, it was a very deliberate and sensible decision. but if we now find that the asylum applications from this region are suddenly increasing to the extent that they are, that some 16% of the asylum applications are already coming from south-eastern europe - germany, sweden and switzerland in particular are affected - then we have to react here. i therefore strongly support the fact that measures are now being taken to prevent the paralysis of the asylum system by a flood of applications which are clearly unfounded. the most important measure - and i consider it wise and necessary - to combat the abuse of asylum is to adopt a safeguard clause when there is a significant and sudden increase in irregular stayers or asylum seekers who make an application for asylum without any apparent justification, or cases where return agreements are not implemented. this is a very good proposal and it will help to ensure that the asylum system is not paralysed but that asylum procedures are expedited. that's the goal behind it. and secondly, i welcome the introduction of the reciprocity mechanism. this will certainly lead to greater solidarity among the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. my colleague from the greens, tatjana ždanoka, has already said that we greens will not support this motion because we do not support this right of suspension and we believe that there is a real need for parliamentary involvement in the full form guaranteed by the treaty of lisbon. as rapporteur for kosovo, i would also like to point out that the kosovars are the only people in the balkans who are not yet allowed to travel freely at all. freedom of movement is one of the achievements of the enlargement process. but i must also make a comment on mr obermayr, the austrian liberal colleague who spoke here: you said that hundreds of buses come and then return empty. well, of course. when buses come, they bring people. and freedom of movement means that people can stay in austria and elsewhere and watch it there, visit relatives, etc. they're not going back with the people. your argument is far from sound.
i have to say, madam president, even if the honourable member, mr weidenholzer, and mrs lunacek do not want to admit it, tens of thousands of third country nationals have been abusing both the eu asylum system and the eu visa system in recent years. the commission has also proposed a safeguard clause to suspend visa-free travel if illegal immigration increases. and this clause is necessary! the member states must exercise their discretion. if there is an acute problem, we cannot wait for the commission to take a long decision on this proposal. the visa requirement must be adapted to the changing immigration situation in a rapid and flexible manner. if we know this from the past from good examples or bad examples illegals once in the country, subsequent deportation is difficult if not impossible. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - the mayor! you have just said that thousands of people have abused their right to asylum here in austria. that's not true! you know very well that the number of asylum seekers in austria has fallen massively. and when you talk about a european asylum system and a european migration system, i don't know what you're talking about. unfortunately, we do not have a common asylum system in europe. each country makes its own. we have no common immigration policy. and we need them, not individuals here who argue that there is a lot of abuse of asylum going on here. it is about preserving the freedom of movement of people, not about you making arguments that go in the wrong direction!
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it wasn't really a question, it was a statement. the fact that mrs lunacek does not want to acknowledge the abuse of asylum in europe, which also affects austria, is her problem. the fact is that it is clear from this report that responsible politics also cares about citizens, cares about abuse, and that we need to find solutions. the fact that not everyone is happy with the solution is quite understandable from the point of view of mrs lunacek, who is a well-known speaker. that's her point of view, i have a different point of view. that's the way it is in a democracy!
in writing. − on paper, the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial (which are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights) are to be strengthened. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected and that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the eu must abandon its us subordination and finally stand up for human and fundamental values. until it does so, this directive is a worthless piece of paper. i have therefore rejected the report.
in writing. - without mortgage loans, most people would not be able to afford housing. this is why this form of credit is of great economic importance. and of course, the financial and economic crisis that has been going on since 2008 is also having an impact on this area. mortgage loans are usually taken out in one's own country. crossborder activities are the exception in this area. the eu wants to create an internal market for mortgage loans that is stable, resilient, efficient and open to competition. i think some of the approaches to the project are quite desirable. i think that the current structure of the community is not very sensible, especially in view of the bursting of the housing bubble, and is more likely to create new bureaucratic obstacles and credit taxation or even credit shortages. in the end, a local banker is more likely to grant a loan than a cross-border financial institution. i have therefore rejected the report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. many people get access to housing through a loan. on the other hand, the mortgage lending market, with its sometimes irresponsible lending practices, has contributed to one of the biggest financial and economic crises. i therefore believe that regulation in this area is urgently needed and welcome this bill as a first step towards fairer, more inclusive and more responsible lending. the european parliament's proposals are clearly aimed at improving consumer protection: for example, more flexibility on early repayment, provisions on responsible lending, some protection against risks associated with foreign currency loans and a cooling-off period for consumers were proposed. in future, credit institutions will be required to provide consumers with comprehensive information and to comply with certain minimum standards, such as the prohibition of misleading advertising.
in writing. − the trading of inside information allows for targeted manipulation of financial and stock markets. this allows a few insiders to enrich themselves at the expense of the general public and at the same time undermines the stability of financial markets. these unfair practices must be put to a legal halt. in addition to the existing mifid directive, which covers insider dealing in many areas, it was now necessary to close further loopholes by recasting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse). the new system will also cover emission allowances. i believe that this is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the markets and to the prevention of market abuse, which is why i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − a level playing field is essential for the functioning of the internal market. equally important is investor protection. the new regulation aims to prevent, or at least make more difficult, insider trading and market manipulation. it also extends the legal framework to all financial instruments, including carbon credits. as reducing co2 emissions is a major objective for many eu member states, a functioning emissions trading market must be ensured. otherwise, dumping prices could result, which would permanently render the idea of co2 emission allowances absurd and undermine investment in lower-emission technology developments. this is in contrast to a future-oriented industrial policy which takes environmental protection more seriously. i therefore voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. - exactly five years ago, the lehman brothers collapse triggered the financial crisis. the libor manipulation scandal revealed a little over a year ago that not much has changed in financial markets in terms of work ethic and work ethics. that is why i am pleased that this report is the first to define insider dealing at european level and to extend the concept of market manipulation to include collusion and price fixing in such important areas as exchange rate markets and energy and oil and gas commodity markets. by introducing minimum penalties and the fact that attempted manipulation is already punishable, we are giving regulators and supervisors greater leverage against companies that engage in market manipulation. finally, the explicit protection of so-called whistleblowers ensures that persons who help to uncover such scandals do not have to fear retaliation from the employer. i therefore voted in favour of the present bill.
in writing. − all the eu's energy policy considerations and actions, such as privatisation and liberalisation of the energy market, have so far failed to deliver the promised cost reductions for consumers. the internal energy market is a major potential for vat fraud. in germany alone, it is estimated that each kilowatt hour of electricity is resold seven to eight times before it reaches the customer. with a market volume for electricity and gas trading of several hundred billion euros, vat fraud could be widespread here, apart from the fact that costs naturally increase with each further purchase and sale. the gaps in energy trading must be closed and the rules changed so that the customer actually has a chance to benefit from lower prices on the wholesale market. so far, however, only increases have been passed on, not reductions. i consider the present proposal to be immature in this respect and therefore reject it.
in writing. − the assessment of the baseline situation is correct in the legislative proposal: reducing the eu's energy consumption is of far-reaching importance. it is also foreseeable that the eu's rather ambitious target of reducing overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020 will not be achieved under the current trend. but i think it is unreasonable to conclude from these circumstances that the state (eu and member state) is now a better investor than the private sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. the use of the cohesion fund often shows an unreasonable allocation of funds or even over-investment, which is not due to necessity but is purely a means of using up the financial quotas allocated to the national authorities. a money pitcher often lacks the ability to make a wise selection in identifying sensible investments, and only billions are sunk accordingly. the task of policy is to provide the right incentives for industry and citizens to make these investments. i therefore voted against this legislative resolution.
in writing. the eu is the world's largest employer of translators. the translation effort required for 24 official languages is high, but necessary, since this multilingualism allows citizens to exercise their right to democratic control. translations thus make a significant contribution to the openness and transparency of the eu institutions towards their citizens. the quality is also good. unfortunately, there are a number of problems, in particular late cancellation for use, which have caused unnecessary costs of around eur 15 million over the last three years. the legislative proposal now presented a number of practical measures to reduce such types of waste in day-to-day operations. i have therefore agreed to the proposal, since it will increase the efficiency of the necessary translation services while maintaining quality.
in writing. − gambling, especially online gambling, is a growing industry within the eu. the legislative proposal aims primarily to combat illegal gambling, to increase the protection and information of vulnerable groups on online gambling and to improve measures to combat illegal gambling. indeed, it is right to try to combat the growing problem of illegal gambling - and a number of proposals are promising. the proposal to finance sports from the state's gambling revenues and the catalogue of measures against collusion are also to be welcomed. the eu framework is justified in that the internet is a spaceless medium and a vote is best achieved at eu level. however, the voices for more information and deterrence of vulnerable groups are unreliable or at least ineffective in practice - think of tobacco products. the fact that online gambling is being strengthened by a broader legal framework could even increase its growth and support - and therefore indirectly, unfortunately, illegal gambling, despite all the measures taken to combat it. the number of addicts could increase and the evidence on the interaction between the growth of gambling and the acute economic crisis is also worrying. in short, the eu measure could be a boomerang. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - i am particularly concerned about the repeal or amendment of article 19, which recommends that the commission impose network blocks. as the european parliament, we should be advocating a free and democratic internet and not measures that restrict fundamental rights. by imposing internet bans, the policy avoids its duty to act against proven illegal content. blocklists are not enough because they are easy to circumvent and only encourage looking the other way. the illegal activities of some website operators are not prevented by a visual barrier, but only covered. barriers create an opaque and non-transparent field in which industry is empowered to enforce private law. as 'lawmakers', we should not delegate this right to industry. at the same time, the scope of application can be extended at any time, as examples from the past show. so i am against internet blocking and instead i am calling for an effective fight against illegal sites instead of a symbol policy that does not work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would remind you of the meeting in december 2012, when parliament, the council and the commission jointly committed themselves to a declaration to cover all outstanding payment claims for 2012 in the spring. it was also stated that this outstanding amount would be settled at an early date. it's now autumn. this has created a deficit and is clearly contrary to our treaty. the sum now stands at eur 11.2 billion to cover actual needs until the end of this year. i would like to ask the council: if we get an electrician to fix the tv, do we pay him late or not at all? he won't be pleased. i would urge the council to honour its commitments or not to make any commitments at all. the latter would certainly save us a lot of trouble and, above all, a lot of money for our citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fight against unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment, is the most important social democratic objective. the commission president, mr barroso, will be speaking tomorrow on the state of the european union, and he will also be speaking in very colourful terms on youth unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. because it is only when we get this problem under control that we can actually talk about there being something like a faint glimmer of hope for economic recovery. the youth guarantee is such a beacon of hope. we now have quality standards in the report for the youth guarantee, but also for apprentices and trainees. that means there's a lot of good stuff in here already. spain, but also many other countries facing particularly high levels of youth unemployment, are now proposing that young people should become self-employed on a large scale, even more flexible than they already are. it is cynical, it is irresponsible and the european response should be different. that is what our report now provides. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why it is so important that we establish a clear link between the crisis, austerity measures and the surge in youth unemployment. we are calling for - and this is particularly important - a sound financial approach, namely an investment package of 2% of eu gdp, because we are all talking about the future. i would also like to draw attention to the role of the social partners, who play an absolutely important role in combating youth unemployment. finally, and this is something that i particularly appreciate, the european semester and the national reform programmes have made a much greater effort to combat youth unemployment. it would be best, of course, if there were a binding clause to that effect. in conclusion, the work, the negotiations, were quite difficult. there were all kinds of proposals - i raised it - but above all a lot of flexibility in the negotiations, which was demanded by young people. i would like to thank the rapporteur, joanna katarzyna skrzydlewska, who has tried very constructively to bring everything together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem of youth unemployment is a major concern for the european union. the unemployment rate is currently 23%, which shows the urgent need for successful action. the lost generation might still be a reality. the youth guarantee is a drop in the bucket, we all know that. young people have a right to work. if we compare the 8 billion with the 20 billion needed for the youth guarantee, this becomes even clearer. on the other hand, young people are also encouraged to be active and to show mobility, commitment and a willingness to learn. i believe that the only way to solve the problem successfully is to work together with all those involved!
in writing. it is strange that the commission is calling for a quality framework for traineeships, but the president of this house a social democrat is not prepared to set a minimum salary for trainees in the eu parliament. in december 2012, i wrote an open letter to mr schulz, calling for a minimum salary for trainees in the ep. answer: thank them for the suggestion, but don't be willing to change anything. it is a gross insolence to speak with such eloquence about the precarious situation and exploitation of young people and then fail even to ensure adequate pay in one's own household. it is particularly unreasonable for traineeships abroad not to be reimbursed for travel expenses. this is unwarranted social selection. how is it possible that some - unfortunately, also austrian - members of parliament pay little or nothing for the services of these young people?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. an important prerequisite for growth in the digital single market is net neutrality, i.e. the clear requirement to treat data packets on the internet equally, regardless of their content, origin and type of service. by allowing new services to be offered and found by users without major obstacles, the internet is strengthening the innovation engine. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the internet, including the creation of a european network of information centres. a clear commitment to net neutrality creates the necessary conditions for a flourishing internal market. the commission is therefore in the wrong place if it merely seeks to create transparency, because it does not exclude such interference per se. it is time for mrs kroes to do what we have been aggressively calling for in parliament for more than two years and to put forward a proposal to establish net neutrality at european level!
in writing. the british authorities' interventions and intimidation in the miranda case are not only embarrassing but represent a serious attack on freedom of the press and of expression in europe. europe must stand up to its citizens, it must not intimidate whistleblowers and it must have a central interest in the investigation of such events. i would also like to recall the european parliament's resolution on 'freedom of the media in europe' adopted in may. here we have decided by a large majority to protect the independence of journalists from internal pressure from publishers, editors or owners as well as from external pressure from politicians. david cameron has acted against these principles.
i have to say, madam president, it is undeniable that the freedom to provide services is the least advanced of the four fundamental freedoms. this is also due to the complexity of the problem. many attempts at regulation have failed, not least the services directive proposed by bolkestein, mainly because it was overloaded with ideological expectations, covered too many areas and took too little account of social aspects. in the last parliamentary term, parliament has, in an unprecedented act, corrected these developments. we have learned that the single market cannot be unleashed by a simple decision, but must be able to develop in clearly defined areas and take account of the concerns of the population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report unfortunately contains some approaches to this, such as the call for a gradual opening up of the social sector.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as in all his previous speeches, president barroso has described a half-full glass as totally full. i will demonstrate that the glass is still half empty. president barroso, you spoke about figures and, yes, there are some good figures, and we are happy about that, but i want to speak about people: about women, about the younger generation and about children, who are still suffering under the austerity policy. you spoke about increasing investment confidence. but why, mr barroso, is there a lack of confidence on the part of europe’s citizens? this is another question that the commission and the commission president need to answer. recently, prime minister samaras, of the future greek presidency of the council, spoke about a greek recovery. with 60% of young people still unemployed and with efforts to find a new package for greece, it is astonishing that some people should talk about a recovery. turning to spain, you probably read the recent article about the young generation there: the children who have to go to school to be fed because they cannot get enough meals at home. and do you know, mr barroso, how many jobs have been created in spain in the last few months? the answer is 31. thirty-one new jobs: this is the recovery in spain! it is a scandal. as for portugal, your own country, mr barroso, i do not know whether you have spoken, as i did recently when i was in setúbal, with caritas, who can show you children being taken out of kindergarten because people are ashamed to send their children to kindergarten with poor clothes. that is also the reality of europe: so show that the glass is not simply half full; it is also half empty. we still have much to do, and we need to change the policies of the commission. (loud applause)because austerity is increasing the rift between rich and poor and between north and south, and is aggravating racism and xenophobia. blaming the others – the foreigners, the migrant workers, the welfare tourists from bulgaria and romania – is very popular, for example among the conservatives in great britain, and even more so ukip and others. this is happening all over europe today: austerity is undermining solidarity between states and also between citizens. yes, i agree we need a strong europe – a much stronger europe. how can we support baroness ashton’s important work if we do not have a stronger europe? and that means, of course, more investment because public and private investment is lacking. i have seen many young entrepreneurs who would like to go for new start-ups if they could get credit and investment. i was recently at porsche and at basf, one of the leading companies in germany, and i saw the high quality of work there. but you know, mr barroso, even in rich germany there is a lack of investment and infrastructure. they have to close bridges and highways because they cannot be repaired; and people say that their internet speed is sometimes slower in rich germany than in some of our poor countries. we have to fight together, in all our countries, for more investment. mr barroso, you also mentioned the civil liberties situation. yes, you are right, but i would take an even stronger stance. how can it be that a black minister in italy is attacked again daily, even by some of the members of this parliament? it is a shame. we should be proud to have a black minister in one of our european governments. (applause) journalists and friends of journalists are being intimidated in some other countries; laws against media freedom have been passed in certain countries; and roma are being attacked again, even more so than before. these are things that we need to combat very strongly. therefore i demand from the commission more policies for economic recovery, more policies on social cohesion and solidarity, and more capacity to defend the rule of the law in europe. you also mentioned, mr barroso, some of the proposals due to come forward: for example, on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. but i would ask you: things have been in place since the spring, so why does it require nearly half a year to bring forward this proposal? are you afraid that some governments are against it? perhaps you mentioned it and i missed it. we passed a legislative proposal on the restructuring of industries because we want restructured industries. we are not conservatives who say that once an industry is there, it has to stay as it is. it must be subject to social conditions. why do you not have the courage to come forward with a legislative proposal on the restructuring of industries? is it because some countries are against it? you are the president of the commission, and the commission must have the strength to fight not only with this parliament but also with the council. so i hope, at least, that you come forward with some proposals on these issues because we need them. (applause)i also want to raise the issue of health and safety regulations because i mentioned the health situation earlier. you need only look briefly at the book the body economic: why austerity kills. it kills in the true sense. under austerity, among other things, the rate of suicide is increasing, so we also need health and safety regulations from the commission. however, let me also address the council. we had an agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff). why is the council breaking this agreement? we had an agreement, together with the commission, on frontloading against youth unemployment. but the council is not frontloading: it is reducing the money for youth unemployment, and this is not acceptable. (applause)how can you present a budget for 2014 which is not up to standard, and not up to the agreement? how can the council violate the law and the treaty by not negotiating with parliament about things which have to be negotiated? we must stick to the laws and the rules, and demand that the council comes forward with a reasonable budget under the mff for 2014. my group will not vote in favour of a budget that is not up to standard to fight against youth unemployment in europe, for that is the biggest task. talk alone is not enough; we want action from the council. (applause)we also expect progress on the financial transaction tax (ftt), which is currently taking a lot of flak. we expect of the council, with the help of the commission of course, that the promise made to our citizens – that the financial sector will contribute through the ftt – will finally be kept. it is not acceptable that so many citizens should suffer and that banks and financial institutions should not contribute to resolving the crisis. lastly, there is to be an election campaign, to which the president referred. the centre-left has approaches to many issues very different from those of the centre-right, especially on social issues. but i hope that the centre in this parliament will defend the future of europe. if some governments are now calling for the words ‘ever closer union’ to be deleted from the treaty, we say ‘no’. we want an ever closer union in the fields of both economic and foreign affairs. that is the only way to go forward, and i therefore believe in the vision of a united states of europe. however, just as the united states of america, it is not a unitary state, europe will never be one. it will have its diversity but will get rid of this nationalism and xenophobia. with all our differences between right and left, let us fight for a common europe: a europe strong enough to defend itself; a europe strong enough to say and do whatever we have to say and do, on issues from syria and egypt to competition with china, and all the others. we cannot defend the interests of our citizens if we go back to nationalism and xenophobia. we have to go forward towards a common united europe. (loud applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – when we talk about recovery we think of thousands of new jobs, not merely 28 or 31. it is scandalous in this precarious situation – although you are proud of what your government has done and it is not only about politics – that there are just 31 jobs. do you know what has also happened? you know perfectly well that if you push people out of the queue for jobs – and the people who cannot find a job despair, and have no hope of getting a job – then you will have a good record. but recovery, for me, is about getting more people into jobs and not about having fewer people looking for work because they despair of finding it. many people in spain – and not only in spain but in many other countries too – are emigrating. you know perfectly well how many people have left the country to go to argentina and other countries in latin america and to germany. we cannot solve the issue of unemployment by telling young people to leave the country and find a job elsewhere. that is not our policy in any way.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr farage, please! you're funny sometimes, but less and less. they are sitting in the front row with their feet free and they are telling us all what we should do better, what mr barroso should do better, what everyone else should do better. but what have you been doing in this time since you have been in the european parliament? you haven't filed a single report. you were never a shadow reporter. they never made a statement. all you've done is talk around! and you blame the others for not doing anything! how can you say that, mr farage? how can you justify this to your constituents, that you've never worked here? (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. austria currently has the highest employment rate in europe and the best youth unemployment rate. do you also think that the path described by mr barroso and the conservatives the policy of bankruptcy and austerity is the wrong way to go for a europe of solidarity and social cohesion?
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the european union is not created by a single blow, not by a simple summation, but by events which create a new act of solidarity. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. we have to fight poverty and youth unemployment, ensure data security, increase competitiveness, respond to globalisation and tackle environmental and climate change. all this is possible only if we want new acts of solidarity, more cohesion, more community powers, more cooperation between parliament and the commission! and when someone says the glass is half-empty, they mean we've failed. when someone says the glass is half full, he means that we are on the right track, but we must not be full, but must continue the journey together. and we have a road map for this: banking union, fiscal union, economic and social union, common foreign and defence policy and political union. there's a lot to do! but what we have done provides the basis for achieving these objectives - with a convention and with the public debate which has been rightly called for. and so, with this state of the union address, the european parliament has launched the information campaign act.react.impact for the next 12 months!
mr president, if i had 40 minutes speaking time like president barroso i would have talked about the many good things about the european union and defended the european union, but with less time i have to point to those elements which he did not point out. mr barroso, you said you want to be on the side of the solutions. yes. what i want is for you to be more active, for example, concerning the member states you criticise here. honestly, after our criticism here today, you have been much more dynamic, much more social even, so you cannot expect more criticism in the future calling for a more social and more dynamic mr barroso. let me make one last point, because this really shows the difference in how we think. in the south of spain – i am sorry to use another example from spain, it is not against spain, not at all – there is a mayor who is now running a lottery at the swimming pool in his city, and the prize is a transitional temporary job. this is not what we want. people have a right to have a job. we want a policy for jobs. we do not want lotteries to win a temporary job: we want a european employment policy to get permanent jobs, sustainable jobs. that is what we are fighting for and i hope we have you on our side.
i have to say, madam president, i should also like to mention that our group is also organising a meeting on this subject this evening. but i would also like to mention that today is the memorial day for the tragic death of anna lindh, the former swedish foreign minister. and we should remember them, too. it was a brutal attack in the middle of europe, and she was a young, dynamic future minister. that's very sad, too, and i just wanted to point that out.
in the case of the european union, the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not a mere institutional body. it must be maintained and preserved. it is therefore the responsibility of the member states, but also of the eu, to ensure that minorities in their respective countries can also use their mother tongue to the full. this includes the possibility of use in the public sector, in the media, in front of offices and especially in schools. unfortunately, there are still states, such as slovenia, which refuse to fully grant these rights to indigenous minorities. the eu must act and influence these countries to change their thinking. today's resolution is a step in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - in europe there are a number of languages which are seriously threatened, some of them even close to extinction. furthermore, some states, including eu member states, pursue a national or regional policy of suppressing languages through overt or covert measures. europe's greatest strength is also its diversity. the same is true of his languages. the cultural heritage of europe, which has been built up over thousands of years in terms of languages, is being disintegrated in a few decades. we must put a stop to this. in the legislative proposal, the commission proposes a series of measures to promote the protection of linguistic diversity in europe. the report also condemns attempts at repression and calls for legislation to prohibit it. i have voted in favour of the proposal because of the importance i attach to the linguistic diversity of europe, as i have said before, and because i am true to the principle of 'enjoying diversity'.
in writing. - language is a matter of course for all of us, but we use it every day. but it is also a cultural asset and a sign of identity for groups of people or for a sense of belonging. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
in writing. − consultations are essential as they are an important tool for transparency towards citizens. in particular, the agency is also a source of information for interested citizens and the general public. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending budget no 3, as this is a surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2012. generally, all outstanding payments should be honoured in order to start a new ‘cleanʼ financial year. this way, europeʼs budget view will be ‘free of chargeʼ and its budgetary task (theoretically) completed.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 4 refers to the amounts needed for staff expenses at the european gnss agency, the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency (eacea) and the court of justice of the european union. some of the european agencies received new operating mandates in order to perform the tasks delegated to them and to achieve the set goals and objectives new staff positions are needed.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union. this time, floods have hit slovenia, croatia and austria. in the spirit of european solidarity, i voted in favour of the report, although it provides only eur 250 000 for croatia and eur 14 million for slovenia, which is rather disproportionate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of funds from the european solidarity fund. these amounts will be mobilised in order to help people in austria, slovenia and croatia after they were hit by major natural disasters – in this case severe floods. i do not think that anybody should vote against mobilisation of this fund, as this fund was created and its major objective is to help european citizens who suffer because of different catastrophic events (including floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and drought).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of funds from the european solidarity fund. these amounts will be mobilised in order to help people in austria, slovenia and croatia after they were hit by major natural disasters – in this case severe floods. i do not think that anybody should vote against mobilisation of this fund, as this fund was created and its major objective is to help european citizens who suffer because of different catastrophic events (including floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and drought).
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that is unfortunate. it's not that easy. in principle, the production of biofuels on land used for food production is a matter of concern. but it can still make sense for a number of reasons. this is the case when the crop can be kept in the same order as in the case of rapeseed or when the waste product can be used to produce fodder. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. certain environmental activists in parliament first wanted a high percentage, now everything is supposed to be different. it also needs legal certainty for those affected. i have to say that i am not satisfied with the report as a whole, and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. - the revision of the union customs code is intended to adapt certain provisions and other relevant legislation to the procedural requirements arising from the treaty of lisbon or to changes required by the development of relevant eu legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. while modern member states have advanced electronic data exchange, others still rely on paper-based procedures. unfortunately, the electronic procedures are often complicated and bureaucratic. i think that the present proposal is not mature enough in this respect and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − a functioning european internal market requires a functioning european customs system, which is a key element of the internal market. the new customs code of the european union succeeds in modernizing and simplifying the existing code considerably. the unification and conversion to a paperless system facilitates access to the european internal market for firms from third countries. this creates more opportunities for businesses, reduces costs and thus benefits european consumers. i am particularly pleased that, at the insistence of the socialist group in the european parliament, the rules originally proposed by the commission on non-preferential origin have been repealed. the commission's delegated acts would have led to an increase in administrative burden, which would have caused disproportionate costs and would have been contrary to the regulation's main objective of simplification and reduction of bureaucratic obstacles. the final result is a compromise which, as is often the case with compromises, could have gone further, but which i can nevertheless accept with confidence.
in writing. - on the one hand, the agricultural accountancy information network certainly contributes to transparency and may also be useful for the design and evaluation of agricultural policy by collecting annual data on the income situation and on the costs and revenues of a sample of agricultural holdings representative of the eu. it is to be hoped that the proposed changes will actually simplify data collection. i am against the reports being presented to the european parliament and the council. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - the adaptation of the commission's powers and the establishment of an information network on agricultural accounts are welcome in view of the changes in agricultural and business conditions and needs since the 1960s.
in writing. − in the context of the alignment with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, any step in this direction is very welcome, as the union's values are reflected in the various amendments and reforms to its treaties. this is a way of ensuring that the community continues to exist.
in writing. − the eia directive is an important instrument for protecting the environment and biodiversity in the european union and is to be adapted and renewed to meet current challenges through amendment. the strengthening of the role of the public is an important element in providing citizens with important information on upcoming projects at an early stage, thus enabling transparent implementation.
in writing. - in view of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which is also under negotiation, it is sensible to subject this human and political area to appropriate regulation. i welcome this forward-looking approach. the report contains the necessary references to issues related to other international commitments, financing and other important contextual issues. the principle of full reciprocity in this area is particularly important, so that no particular advantage or disadvantage is created for either party.
in the case of the young people, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that they are not discriminated against. some coordination at eu level may be useful, as long as it is not abused to leak further powers to the eu through the back door. on paper, the youth employment guarantee sounds great. in fact, however, much depends on the way they are designed. it is important to counter the rise of parttime work on the one hand and the trend of permanent internships, one-euro jobs and mac jobs on the other. i do not think that this report is appropriate in this respect and i have rejected it.
in writing. − the evaluation of the implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012 praises achievements, identifies areas for improvement and addresses the escalating problem of youth unemployment in southern europe. i doubt that the eu bureaucracy is the best at recognizing the concerns of young people. the problem of youth unemployment is an obvious one, and one which concerns every young person, particularly in the countries of the union in crisis. the eu must really support a solution here. unfortunately, the only idea the eu has is to direct more money to the countries concerned and to encourage the member states to make better use of the resources available. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a waste of billions on short-term numbers. i therefore voted against the proposal. the aim must be to restore competitiveness and economic activity and to maintain or improve the level of education of young people. the natural increase in the demand for young, skilled labour by the economy follows.
in writing. − i have agreed to the report on the implementation of the eu youth strategy, as i believe it sets the right priorities, especially in the context of the challenges of the next cycle 2013-2015. the importance of education and training opportunities as an opportunity for young people is clearly emphasised. in my view, in the face of the horrendous youth unemployment, education must be strengthened alongside targeted investment in growth and employment. equal, non-selective access to quality education is essential not only for a country's competitiveness but also for the future prospects of young people. i think that the proposals to promote programmes to reduce school drop-outs and to promote open education, such as moocs (massive open online courses), are very sensible. at the same time, more financial resources must be made available for investment in youth employment and economic growth in general, rather than following a rash savings policy.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed young people. the causes of this are structural in some eu countries. in general, there is a range of different fundamental problems to be solved. and this cannot be done at eu level. the member states must find the national and regional formula that suits them. a certain degree of coordination and cooperation at eu level is to be welcomed. for example, to address the problem of long-term internships, one-euro jobs or mac jobs. in the past, however, eu intervention in the field of employment has mostly been to the detriment of workers. moreover, a decentralised approach at eu level alone can only lead to more red tape and cost, without producing the desired results. i am therefore against this report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment. the crisis and the subsequent austerity measures have led to a sharp increase in youth unemployment. i was the shadow rapporteur for the socialist group when we negotiated this report and we were able to reach good compromises with the other groups. i abstained on the alternative resolutions by the greens and the gue/ngl. i am in favour of the content, but i am against the approach. while the greens withdrew early from the committee negotiations, i negotiated hard until the last minute and managed to achieve important points: among them the demands for massive investment (2% of eu gdp) to combat (youth) unemployment; the enhanced consideration of youth employment in the european semester and the national reform programmes; quality standards for traineeships and apprenticeships, including fair remuneration; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. in the end we were able to produce a very good report which was happily adopted by a large majority in the plenary. this is a strong signal to the commission, the council and, above all, the member states.
in writing. the unemployment rate among young people is twice as high as that of the rest of the population. over five and a half million people under 25 are unemployed in the european union. this condition is intolerable. the report, which was drawn up by the social democrats in particular, proposed measures to combat youth unemployment: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the youth guarantee to include a package of investment in employment of 2% of european gdp. because rigid austerity only exacerbates the problem further this must be seen from the conservative side too. it is important that the proposed measures are now also implemented both in the context of the european semester and in national reform programmes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. there are of course some barriers, but they often arise from the fact that different member states have different standards and quality requirements. and we must also be aware that in the end it is always the customer who decides. and it is not just cost factors that determine the choice of the customer, but often also the different languages. i am not convinced by this report, although there are of course some good approaches. i therefore voted against it.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2013/2819 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, what do we know? we know that chemical weapons have been used; that is very clear. we have many documents, many conclusions showing that the assad regime bears direct or at least indirect responsibility for this attack. i cannot imagine that this could have happened without the knowledge of assad. the international community must react to prevent any further use of chemical weapons. that is our right; it is our obligation. furthermore, threats of military action have been made. there are many colleagues – and we have discussed this for a long time in our group – who have been for or against military action, but the threats are there and the threats have helped, something that we have to acknowledge, because russia would not have moved without the threats and assad would not have moved without the threats. but now we have to act and we have to demand from syria that it follows up promises and words with action. syria has to sign up to the chemicals weapons convention now. syria has to hand over all chemical weapons – and i mean all chemical weapons – which have to be destroyed under un control. this of course is not the end of the affair. no, it is the beginning, and we need to hold the geneva conference we have planned for so long for a sincere dialogue. we have to challenge russia, syria, iran and others also to come forward with some offers for peace and a political solution. finally, when speaking about many issues we very often forget the many refugees, the millions of refugees, and europe and all our member states have to do more. what we have done is not enough. finally, we have a lot of talk about military action. i do not want to go into detail, and as i said the threats have been helpful, but now it is time for peace, now we have to say – and this can be the big role for europe – let us give peace a chance in syria and in the middle east.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we all agree here - and we have been for a long time - that this cruel killing in syria must finally come to an end and that chemical weapons must of course never be used again. we have also had quite a few debates in my group about which reaction is the most important. we all agree that a strong, united response is needed. but we must ask ourselves whether a military strike - no matter what form it takes - actually achieves the objective, which includes the responsibility to protect, which is to protect the population. and i have and have many other doubts. but there is a window of opportunity now and that decision has been put on the back burner a little bit. a parliament, the parliament in the uk, in london, has taken the first step here to open a window of opportunity, with the possibility that has been debated for 48 hours, that the syrian regime is ready, with russia, with the support of the international community -- iran has also said yes -- to bring these chemical weapons under control and to destroy them. now there is indeed the possibility of a diplomatic political solution. but this cannot be a delaying tactic. that's obvious. it is necessary to make a geneva ii. and i am pleading for this, and we are pleading for the greens, that iran must also be included as an important regional player. and a second point: i am glad that we have succeeded in getting this into the joint resolution. there is a possibility that if the security council is blocked, the general assembly can take the lead and debate the issue and also come to a decision that has some legitimacy under international law. it is necessary, and i think that if the security council remains blocked, then we should look at this possibility. the last and most important thing about refugees is that even if there is a diplomatic solution, the suffering of refugees, the suffering of millions of people - women, children and men who are already under pressure, who have been injured, who have had to flee - is not solved by a political solution. the european union and the member states must do more to help refugees, including on the ground. only half of the €3.3 billion has been paid out so far, and member states must also be prepared to take in more refugees. it is necessary! they cannot just say: 'neighbouring countries must do this', but also: 'we must do this too'. this is the task of the european union and the member states in these times to help and protect people.
my dear colleagues! since we are not only late, but the vice-president of the commission has to leave the chamber at 5.15 p.m., and there are still other items on the agenda to be discussed, and i have 16 people on the list for the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, i ask for your understanding that i will reduce this to eight, that is to say, one person from each group that has been notified and two from the larger groups, so that we are instructed to take account of the majority. catch the eye
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that a common solution is now being worked out in the conflict over syria's abc weapons can undoubtedly be a great relief to us all. no doubt a military strike on syria would have the potential to ignite a conflagration in the middle east. moscow can now present itself as an international mediator, and nobel peace prize winner obama, who would have received little support for his military plans, can keep his face. so, this may be a good idea. if the syrian regime does indeed have the chemical weapons arsenal that the intelligence services are assuming, then the implementation of the plan will be a highly problematic story. for one thing, the assad regime is known for its mastery of delaying tactics. secondly, the exact procedure is still unclear. removing a thousand tons of poison gas from the war zone or destroying it on the spot will no doubt prove difficult. so there must be clear and precise conditions if this plan is to be more than a mere tactical feint.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while europe is stopping arms and aid, new financiers are already offering to help, most notably saudi arabia. and this is at the expense of the christians living in egypt, the copts, who have already suffered brutal attacks in mursi's time. because in addition to the continuing attacks by the muslim brotherhood in northern egypt in recent weeks 35 coptic churches were attacked, many houses were destroyed, there were also deaths one must now expect the salafists to be strengthened by the saudi money. it will mean more influence for the salafists. lady ashton, we must make it clear to egypt, including the new rulers - the military - that in the future egypt will need europe in many ways. but egypt must also ensure that basic democratic values are respected and that ethnic and religious minorities are protected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the giannakou report therefore calls for economic union, monetary union, social union, liability union and banking union to be followed by military union. austria owes its sovereignty to the vienna state treaty of 1955. it explicitly excludes any membership of a military alliance. the neutrality law was adopted, which also expressly excludes any membership in and participation in a military alliance. in 1994 the austrian people were promised that they would not join any military alliance if they joined the european union. and now we want a military union. this is outrageous! i shall look very closely at the voting behaviour of the austrian members tomorrow. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. militarization and armament are incompatible with the vienna state treaty and the neutrality act! the financing of such structures is incompatible with the austrian neutrality act and the vienna state treaty. and the use of the european union's armed forces is as incompatible as the cooperation requested here! this is not acceptable to austrian members of parliament!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union, as we know, has a lot of problems to deal with, and with each enlargement new ones are added. i therefore believe that a focus on european security policy is only useful to the extent that these problem areas are tackled or eliminated - for example by eliminating double structures or by creating uniform standards for military goods. as long as nato is dependent on the united states, i think it is dangerous to dream of the eu becoming a european pillar of nato. the united states, when it demands that europe should take a more active part in its security policy, is always demanding blind obedience in support of the interests of the united states as a superpower. the continuing violations of human and international law by the americans - all in the name of fighting terrorism and democratization, of course - should no longer be tolerated without criticism. i believe it is high time for the eu to emancipated itself in foreign and security policy. and the treaty of lisbon, which i do not usually praise, provides the basis for this, while also preserving austria's neutrality, i believe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. last week representatives of the european parliament and national parliaments met in vilnius to discuss the common defence and security policy. i hope that what is happening here will also be happening in every national parliament to strengthen european awareness, national awareness of the need for a common defence and security policy. we can't do this alone. we have the same problems in all the member states of the european union: too little staff, too little money, too little efficiency and therefore too little credibility. and that is why the only answer can be - and that is also why - that we pool our forces to be able to fulfil our tasks. and when today the president of the commission again clearly proclaims the objective of political union in his state of the union speech, we must say that we cannot become a credible political union without first being a defence, security and foreign policy union. and that is why we are calling for the european defence agency to coordinate all the national armies' savings and efficiency measures. we therefore call for a common european procurement system. we therefore call for the next commission to have a commissioner responsible for the defence union who will also coordinate our international operations.
i have to say, madam president, the progress in eu-belarus relations is, in my view, more than unsatisfactory. the eu's policy of excluding belarus and disregarding the results of the 2012 parliamentary elections has certainly not achieved its desired goal. the sanctions are not effective, they are harmful primarily to the population and they should therefore be abolished. what is needed is increased political and economic exchanges between belarus and eu member states to initiate reforms and improve the economic situation in the country, and to convince the belarusians of the advantages and strengths of the western system. the strict visa policy with its relatively high cost of visas is completely counterproductive and needs to be changed urgently. i call on the commission to be more factual in its assessment of the situation in belarus and to assess all the countries of eastern europe by the same standards!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not for the majority of its citizens, europe is not just an economic project with a common internal market; they also expect social cohesion and the guarantee of freedom and security. it is therefore of great importance that concrete measures are taken at european level towards an area of freedom, security and justice. the community dimension of this matter is equally important: the equal participation of the commission, the council and the european parliament. i often lack the will to take parliament into account. the discussion of the five pillars of the iss could certainly have been improved by being more closely linked to the needs of citizens. people are interested in a high level of security as a matter of life and death, but they do not want to lose their freedom in the process. the protection of fundamental human rights is a core competence of parliament. our criticism is therefore somewhat constructive. the democratic control of the european agencies active in this field is also of particular importance. many measures are being taken too slowly and it is to be hoped that the europol legislative act can be completed during this period. the involvement of the national parliaments could also be increased. this is particularly true of the directive on data processing in the police and judiciary. it would be an important signal for modern legislation in the field of tension between security and freedom.
ombudsman. − mr president, before i begin my remarks, may i just, with great pleasure, welcome you back. i am delighted to see that you are in very good health and wish you very well. this is obviously a moment replete with some degree of emotion for me. i would like to thank parliament for the opportunity to address you on the subject of my annual report for the year 2012. to begin with i would like to express my profound thanks to your rapporteur, mr salavrakos, for his thorough and insightful report on the ombudsman’s activities and my gratitude to the committee on petitions for serving as a valuable source of inspiration and support to the ombudsman throughout my decade in office. i particularly wish to record my gratitude to mr salavrakos for the remarks on a personal level that he has just made. they touched me deeply. in 2012, over 22 000 citizens were directly helped by the ombudsman. of these, around 19 000 received advice through the interactive guide on my website. we should not underestimate how important it is for citizens to be guided to the most appropriate complaint-handling body from the outset and to be spared the frustrations and delays associated with having to identify the right institution on their own. in 2012 i also received a total of 2 442 complaints from citizens, enterprises, ngos, associations and others. the 465 inquiries opened in 2012 represent an increase of 18 % compared to the previous year. this again follows a similar increase of 18 % in 2011. the trend towards more people turning to the european ombudsman for the right reasons is confirmed by the continued fall in the number of complaints received that are outside the mandate. in 2012 the number of such complaints stood at 1 720, which is the lowest in ten years. i attribute this success, which this body had persistently been asking me for, to the interactive guide that i mentioned earlier. in 2012, 390 inquiries were closed. in 89 cases, the institution concerned settled the matter, agreed to a friendly solution or accepted a draft recommendation. most of the other cases were closed with a finding either of no maladministration or that no further inquiries were needed. i found maladministration in 56 cases. the institutions accepted a draft recommendation either in part or in full in nine of these while the other 47 were closed with critical remarks. in 30 cases i made further remarks to help improve future performance. in 2012 we were able for the first time to provide a concrete answer to the question of how well the institutions cooperate with the european ombudsman in seeking to improve their performance. in two publications produced last year, the follow-up study to critical and further remarks and a new compliance report, we found that in 82 % of cases the eu institutions complied with the ombudsman’s suggestions. i will take advantage of vice-president reding’s presence, who i had not acknowledged when i thanked her for being here, to also note that the degree of compliance for the commission last year stood at exactly 82 %. helping to ensure the highest standards of behaviour in the institutions constitutes a key element of the ombudsman’s mission. during 2012, following a public consultation, we formulated and published a set of public service principles. the five principles represent a succinct statement of what citizens and civil servants alike expect of the eu civil service. they are: (1) commitment to the european union and its citizens (2) integrity (3) objectivity (4) respect for others and (5) transparency. these principles take account of best practice in the member states and among other things should help civil servants to understand and apply correctly the plethora of codes and regulations governing their activities. since i will be retiring at the end of this month, i wish also to use this opportunity to provide you with a short overview of what i think have been the notable achievements and important experiences of the institution which you elected me to lead three times over the past decade. in basic numbers, over the last ten and a half years the european ombudsman dealt with more than 30 000 complaints and opened almost 3 500 in-depth investigations into alleged maladministration by the eu institutions. during the same period the eu administration has become more transparent, more citizen-friendly and more service-minded. i am convinced that the independent and impartial work of the ombudsman has contributed to this notable progress towards an administration culture of service to citizens. we have achieved tangible results in many fields especially as regards transparency, ethical issues such as conflicts of interest and citizens’ rights. since the lisbon treaty entered into force in 2009 and the charter of fundamental rights became legally binding, the ombudsman has become increasingly active in the area of citizens’ rights in relation, for example, to the european citizens’ initiative, the institutions’ obligation to conduct an open and regular dialogue with civil society and other ways of increased citizen participation including public consultations. the ombudsman has also participated in multiple ways in decision-making and opinion-forming at the european level and in strengthening cooperation with the european network of ombudsmen. important parts of my work have involved adapting the ombudsman’s office to take account of enlargement, the reform of the ombudsman statute, advising on the establishment of the ombudsman institution in turkey, agreeing the memorandum of understanding with the european data protection supervisor in the european investment bank, enhancing the ombudsman's role in relation to the protection of human and fundamental rights, strengthening the european network of ombudsmen and, not least, providing parliament with information and recommendations in a number of fields. promoting an administrative culture of service to citizens requires a moral investment on the part of the ombudsman and on the part of parliament and the other institutions and bodies of the union. it asks of the ombudsman to be proactive, to be imaginative and to be creative in thinking of ways to bring about changes in the mindset of the institutions. above all, however, promoting a culture of service demands of the ombudsman institution the intellectual commitment and administrative capacity to adopt citizen-focused strategies geared to the maintenance and observance of the highest ethical standards. such attributes constitute the necessary foundation on which to build the moral and political capital that is needed to make it possible for the ombudsman to live up to the added responsibilities and heavy expectations associated with being viewed as an important institutional counterweight to executive power, capable of speaking truth to power and endowed with moral authority allowing him or her to contribute substantively to the deepening of the rule of law and to the enhancement of the quality of democracy within the european union. it is important to acknowledge that little progress would have been possible without the good cooperation of the leadership and staff of the eu institutions. meaningfully, creatively and proactively engaging in a regular and structured dialogue with the institutions, for which the ombudsman serves as an external mechanism of control, constitutes a central element of my deeply held view that the ombudsman should not be regarded as an institutional expression of a culture of blame, which tends to breed a defensive mentality in the institutions and staff. rather, my objective has been proactively to promote a culture of service to citizens and of active respect for their rights. with respect to the commission, i wish here to acknowledge the support of successive commissioners for administration, international relations and fundamental rights. we have also built an excellent framework of cooperation with the european investment bank. a further source of satisfaction is that the agencies of the eu have in their overwhelming majority cooperated fully with me in promoting the principles of a culture of service in their relations with citizens. i again profit from the presence of ms reding to also underline the way in which she, from her new portfolio – that is extremely important for us – has been supportive of the ombudsman over the past few years and i want to thank her for that. finally, i would like to acknowledge the central role of parliament in general, and its committee on petitions in particular, in providing generous support to the ombudsman institution. parliament has ensured that the ombudsman has the budgetary and human resources needed to work effectively and has provided firm political support for the ombudsman’s efforts to achieve progress and good administration in the defence of citizens’ rights. this has been a collaborative endeavour which i believe has achieved notably good results for citizens. i will conclude with some reflections on the challenges for the future. parliament has, in its collective wisdom, elected ms emily o’reilly as my successor. as the outgoing irish ombudsman, ms o’reilly comes well prepared for the tasks lying ahead. during her 10 years in office in ireland, she distinguished herself on both the domestic and international fronts. domestically, she presided over the major enlargement and renovation of her institution and over the subsequent enhancement of its moral authority and its political weight. internationally, she played a central role in the growth and development of both the british and irish ombudsmen association and the european network of ombudsmen as vibrant and more professional groups. last, but certainly not least, as the very first female european ombudsman, she brings to her task the ingenuity, emotional intelligence and intuition especially associated with her gender. as such, she comes superbly prepared for the challenges facing her institution. one such challenge is the economic situation which both the citizens whom we serve and the institutions we are tasked to help have to face, in all likelihood, for quite some time. another challenge will be to cope with and adjust to technological change, environmental, economic and financial problems, increasing but also ageing populations, and many others including migration. these challenges are leaving their deep imprint on the evolving relationship between the eu and its citizens. in turn, the expectations which citizens hold of the eu that serves them are a function of two central parameters: the problems they face, and the tools they have at their disposal in order to make their demands known. the challenge for the european ombudsman is to be both responsive to the changing needs and demands of citizens and, at the same time, be aware of the pressures and constraints that the institutions face. i wish my successor well and i thank you all for your attention and for your support for the past 10 years, and for the honour that you have bestowed upon me three times to serve you. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's good to see you back here! i would like to thank mr salavrakos and the committee on petitions for the excellent report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012. this report is important because it shows us how the controller of the controller views the way that this very citizen-centred work has been put in place. this work has been put in place because you, mr. diamandouros, over all this time, have first of all built up an institution and then led it. this required patience, professionalism and wisdom. you had all three of them, and i think that parliament was very wise three times to give you the responsibility of leading this institution. mr salavrakos' report also looks back and highlights what has been achieved in recent years. this includes constant efforts to deepen the dialogue with citizens, and i hear with great pleasure that citizens increasingly know what the responsibility of the ombudsman entails, so this institution is becoming a real fact of life for citizens. that recognition takes time to build and you have managed to do just that a real achievement. you have also managed, by deepening the dialogue not only with citizens but also with the institutions and civil society, to strengthen the rights of citizens to participate in democratic life. the action to make european decision-making more transparent and more responsible is a much-needed one. we see in 2013, which is the european year of citizens, the extent to which citizens still lack knowledge about how the eu institutions work and what they are doing for them. i was shocked by the latest eurobarometer figures indicating that only one third of citizens think that their voice counts. so there is still a lot of work to do to enable citizens to understand that these institutions are at their service. you, mr diamandouros, have played a crucial role in having this administrative culture of service to the citizens instilled in the institutions. thank you for this and for your remarkable performance over the past 10 years. thank you also for putting on the table, in your speech just now, what you see as the challenges for the coming years, which we need to tackle collectively. i can tell the house that between the commission and mr diamandouros there has always been an open, loyal and fruitful collaboration marked by mutual respect. so thank you once again, mr. diamandouros because you were at the centre of this practice of collaborating together. i wish you a very happy, healthy and active retirement. can we come back to you and ask you any questions we may have, taking advantage of the wisdom you've accumulated on this subject over the last 10 years? turning to the more factual part of today's debate, the report recognises the major efforts made by the eu institutions in general, including the commission, to become more transparent. in fact, transparency-related complaints decreased from 36% in 2008 to 21.5% in 2012, which shows that great progress has been made. this is an encouraging trend. i therefore note that most of the inquiries opened concerned the commission. this is normal because the commission, as the executive arm of the union, is the institution taking most of the decisions which have a direct and far-reaching impact on citizens. i note, however, that the number of inquiries decreased in 2012 by 5%, which shows that while commission is the focus of the most inquiries their incidence is slowly going down. this may be because the commission has taken due account of the call by parliament to adopt common binding rules and principles on administrative procedure on the basis of article 298 of the treaty. there will be a detailed stocktaking of existing administrative law and possible shortcomings across all the institutions and there will be an assessment of the approaches taken to these issues in the member states. the aim is to bring together the relevant information on citizens' existing administrative rights in one central place on a website in order to address the point that you, ombudsman, have underlined: people need to know to whom to address themselves to get an answer. this is very important for all our institutions. the commission is also taking due account of the ombudsman's comments on the expansion of vienna airport and the comments in parliament's own-initiative report, with a view to bringing clarity to the matter. the commission has submitted a proposal for an amendment of directive 2011/92 on the assessment of certain public and private projects on the environment. this proposal has broad support - it has been supported by the committee on petitions and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - and i now expect that the co-legislators can conclude the negotiations as quickly as possible. this will mean that in future we can avoid attracting special comment from your successor, mr ombudsman. i am pleased the salavrakos report notes that in nearly 18 years the european ombudsman has presented only 18 special reports. this is clear proof that problems are being solved before reports have to be issued, as i assume there have been more than 18 problems! if in 18 years there have only been 18 cases on which reports have been needed, this shows that very many problems can be solved by a cooperative approach before they need to come into the open. that's very good. to bring clarity to these matters and to future issues, the commission will continue to work in the same spirit of loyal and constructive cooperation with the incoming european ombudsman, ms emily o'reilly, whom i would like to congratulate on her election and whom i look forward to meeting very soon. i would like to say a last word to the committee on petitions. its work is of the utmost importance and i saw, in this year of citizens when i had the citizens' dialogues, that many people are aware of the existence of the committee on petitions. it is very important that people should be aware of this because, as parliament represents citizens, the first thing that should happen when something goes wrong is for citizens to go to those who represent them. i am glad to hear that the collaboration between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman is working so smoothly. that is how things should be, and they are because there are wise people in the committee on petitions and there has been a very wise ombudsman, whom i would like to thank for 10 years of wonderful service to citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the annual report is available to us and i think we are all very well aware of it, and it shows above all the balanced work of you, mr diamandouros. i will draw a few points: transparency. although the administration of the eu institutions is transparent, a large proportion of citizens still do not feel that way. we must therefore do everything possible to provide our citizens with the information they need. i would also like to mention cooperation in this context. the eu institutions, bodies and agencies are called upon to cooperate even more closely with the ombudsman, thus improving interinstitutional dialogue and thus also contributing to improving the image of the eu. the special report on the expansion of vienna airport shows very well that excellent cooperation between all parties involved can lead to really good solutions for everyone. finally, i would like to draw attention to a point which is also important to me as rapporteur for the report on women with disabilities, namely that much more attention needs to be paid to the needs of those who are particularly vulnerable. i count, as i said, people with disabilities, but i also count children. i would like to ask you to monitor compliance with the relevant un conventions. in conclusion, we wish you all the best and thank you for your excellent cooperation and commitment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mrs werthmann: transparency is very important to all of us, and the ombudsman has set good standards in this area. do you think that the lobby register currently in place in the european union should create more transparency in the area of ngo funding, especially among ngos, because we obviously already need to know what interests ngos have in the various areas, and above all whether they are funded from outside europe?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr rübig, i agree with you, of course, and i think that much more needs to be done in terms of transparency. i think that mr diamandouros' successor will also be very keen to do so. i am convinced that the committee on petitions will do its best to strengthen itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the ombudsman for his work. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to mr diamandouros for the report on the year under review and for all the work he has done, for his professional and practical work as an ombudsman and as a partner of the committee on petitions, particularly in connection with the special report on the development of vienna airport and the consequences of this: the improvement of procedures and the administration's conduct in the interest of the citizens, to which the commission has also been drawn, and more effective public participation in the run-up to the eia procedures, as will be laid down in the amendment to the eia directive in october. i'd also like to thank his team. there, too, i learned about professional work. i do recognise the new ombudsman's skills and experience and her personal commitment. i welcome the fact that this includes some essential aspects that i fully share: for example, the objective of effective communication the keyword star cases has fallen here , an intensive use of online tools that should allow citizens to follow their case online. i would be pleased if in future the cooperation of the committee on petitions with the new ombudsman would achieve the quality of that with mr diamandouros effective, effective cooperation for the benefit of the citizens of europe. i personally wish you good health and a happy life.
in writing. − the position of the european ombudsman plays an important role in the institutional set-up of the european union, namely that of a central point of contact and a corrective. it is essential that citizens can present their concerns directly and unbureaucratically, that they can be heard and that they can bring about improvements.
in writing. − the list of third countries (regulation (ec) no 539/2001) defines the countries whose nationals are in possession of a visa and lays down the conditions for exemption from the visa requirement. the amendments now envisaged will depend mainly on the actual interpretation of the new rules. there are, after all, problems with the efficiency of some procedures. it is also urgent to ensure that past visa scandals cannot be repeated. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − bearing in mind the current economic situation in europe, and in particular the precarious financial situation of some european countries and member states (e.g. greece, cyprus, portugal, etc.), i strongly believe and favour a new revised and effective banking supervision approach. the european union and its members should be able to fully trust the quality of the banking supervision system. the report refers to a better, more responsible and efficient monitoring and supervision of banksʼ activity and performance across europe and its member states. i believe there are positive aspects related to ‘prudential supervisionʼ of credit institutions. a ‘single supervisory mechanismʼ will secure the money deposits of our citizens and reduce the imbalances for competiveness. confidence of investors will be built up (again), fostering economic growth and new employment opportunities. financing methods and loans will strengthen, translated into better and more transparent credit availability for the business environment; cash and credit flow will increase as well having a direct effect on companies (institutions, corporate and smes) activity and monetary transmission and transfer will improve.
in writing. − this report aims to achieve sustainable optimisation and legal certainty by introducing clear definitions and enhancing transparency. it is very welcome that all this should be done on the basis of the nagoya protocol, an international environmental agreement under the un convention on biological diversity.
in writing. - the demand for equal pay for equal work has been around for decades. closing the wage gap is not only a prerequisite for a just society, studies show that it would also lead to higher economic growth. nevertheless, the gender pay gap in the eu is 16.2%. women still earn considerably less than their male counterparts, even if they have the same qualifications and work. the introduction of the european directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation in 2006 has not brought about any significant improvements in this respect either. the european parliament therefore invited the commission to review the current legal situation as early as may 2012. this has not yet happened. this resolution therefore urges the commission once again to react immediately. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. structural discrimination against women must no longer be tolerated. binding legal rules with appropriate sanctions are necessary.
in writing. - cybercrime has increased significantly in recent years. recently, european government agencies, such as the swiss or the austrian foreign ministry, have been repeatedly hacked. the eu is responding with legislative initiatives, including a modernised european network and information security agency (enisa) and measures to enable a faster response to cyber attacks. some countries have again moved away from internet blocking schemes in the fight against child pornography, because they are easily circumvented and because much of the material is de facto in the us and therefore not affected by us regulations. another problem is that the entertainment industry's network blocking is a welcome means of installing copyright filters. the introduction of internet blocks for child pornography would allow these colporteurised plans to be extended to other areas, according to the industry. network blocking and computer-based copy protection software are designed to save the dwindling profits of the us music industry, after all, acta is supposed to call for minimum copyright penalties for europe. the present resolution unfortunately does not deal with these problems very much. i have incorporated these points into my voting behaviour.
in writing. - in principle, this resolution contains some good approaches. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. of course, the actual transmission speed depends on a number of factors. the majority of users are not interested in guaranteed performance, but in what is generally available. the situation is particularly bad in rural areas, where many people depend on good connectivity and, for example, work from home to earn a living due to the lack of local jobs, or where shopping is done over the internet due to the lack of existing infrastructure. i voted in that spirit.
in writing. - a military strike against the syrian regime would be an adventure with uncertain outcome and has the potential to plunge the entire middle east into chaos. there is no evidence that syrian president assad is responsible for the use of poison gas against civilians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this is not clear from the report, which is otherwise very balanced. the tendency is to simply adopt the american positions, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the situation in egypt is a major threat to stability in the middle east. it must be in the eu's interest that a stable and capable government is elected in egypt soon, and that order is quickly restored. it is certainly not very helpful if the eu now imposes conditions, such as the immediate release of former president morsi. it is clear that eu aid must be frozen until order is restored in the country. i have abstained because the resolution is very vague.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution to be voted on today calls for 'better coordination and cooperation at european level in the field of foreign policy and the common security and defence policy, if the eu is to be perceived as an effective and credible actor on the world stage', and this is to be fully supported. the totally uncoordinated actions in libya, mali and the current crisis in syria make the eu's weaknesses apparent and open the door for non-european powers like the us to hire individual member states as vassals. the european union must not only be able to take action to combat terrorism, but also to take action to combat terrorism, and this is the first step towards the creation of a european security alliance based on solidarity, as opposed to the imperialist nato orientation which has hitherto prevailed in europe. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world, and we must be able to play a leading role in the world. it is important for austria, as a neutral country, to adhere strictly to the relevant legal provisions, while showing solidarity with our european neighbours. the report's reference to nato is still too strong, so i abstained.
in writing. − cooperation and coordination of defence policy at european level is in principle to be welcomed and further developed. in an increasingly globalised world, it is crucial that the european union speaks with one voice and can respond swiftly to (geo) political changes and challenges. the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the defence budgets of eu member states makes mutual support all the more important.
in writing. - the independence and sovereignty of the eu member states, as well as of other european states, must of course also be fully respected and respected by russia. we must reject any attempts at blackmail or pressure on these countries. however, russia must also be able to express its position and opinion clearly, or to respond to a certain position with a certain reaction. the fact that those eastern european countries which have not yet joined the eu and many of which were former soviet republics are in the sphere of influence or interest of the russians must also be accepted in the eu. this must always be taken into account in assessing russian activities. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments.
in writing. − the complete lack of coordination in libya or mali, or in the current syrian crisis, makes the eu's weaknesses in the field of foreign policy and the common security and defence policy apparent and opens the door to non-european powers such as the us, which hire individual member states as vassals. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty on european union. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world. the first priority must also be to solve the security problems on the ground, such as the balkan question, rather than sending troops to distant countries to support the us's aspirations for world domination. the united states is currently in charge and the europeans are allowed to carry out the instructions faithfully and later to finance the reconstruction of crisis regions. i therefore reject this resolution.
in writing. - there is still a lot to be done, particularly in the field of safety and health at work. the eu directive based on the exposure limit values set by the international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection in 1998 has been undermined in some countries. it is therefore necessary to apply the limit values more strictly where appropriate. the present resolution is in any case a step in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − at the end of 2012, the community strategy on health and safety at work 2007-2012 ended without a follow-up strategy, despite the fact that the european parliament, in its 2011 mid-term review report, had already urged the commission to develop and continue the strategy. i thank my colleague, mrs pervenche berès, for her question. we see that companies are cutting back on safety in the crisis, as the rising number of deaths from work accidents dramatically illustrates. but this is saving in the wrong place, because it puts workers, our social model and economic performance at risk. a common european strategy helps to ensure that the issue of safety and health at work is given sufficient attention at national level. the current lack of an eu strategy on safety and health at work also means a growing backlog in prevention. i voted in favour of parliament's resolution and i therefore call on the commission to present a follow-up strategy by the end of the year which also takes sufficient account of particularly topical problems such as stress at work, the needs of older workers and the increase in musculoskeletal disorders.
in writing. - thousands of unaccompanied minors, i.e. children, arrive in the european union from third countries every year. the current developments in the middle east and other hotbeds of international conflict will only intensify this trend. unaccompanied minors cross eu borders as refugees, traumatised by war or victims of violence and exploitation. it is therefore high time that the commission made an effort in this respect. the present report calls on the commission to draw up guidelines in the form of a handbook which, on the one hand, summarises and consolidates existing legislation in this field and, on the other hand, provides a framework for the relevant authorities and organisations in the member states to follow. the main focus here is that unaccompanied minors are primarily children with specific and special needs. their rights and special circumstances must be taken into account at all times, both in administrative aspects such as determining age, finding relatives and appointing a legal guardian, and in practical aspects such as accommodation, educational and medical care and access to education. the present own-initiative report, its significance and, above all, its content, is a matter of consensus between the parties and i hope that the commission will take action as soon as possible.
in writing. − unaccompanied minors who have arrived in the european union or are left alone are in a particularly vulnerable situation; it is essential that their fundamental and human rights are respected and that they are also given the best possible care. the establishment of guidelines and minimum standards is an important step towards improving the situation of those concerned and must be positively assessed accordingly.
in writing. − the cultural and creative industries cover a wide range of sectors, from design and architecture to music and libraries. studies show that this sector accounts for 4.5% of european gdp and creates 8.5 million jobs across europe. the cultural and creative industries can provide important impetus for innovation and growth, particularly in the context of regional and local development. the tobacco factory in linz is a good example of this. for these reasons i welcome the commission's initiative to give this sector better support. i have agreed to parliament's report because it proposes concrete measures. the aim is to improve access to funding and capital, and the legal and fiscal framework for the cultural and creative industries. the aim is to promote better and equal access to culture for all citizens.
in writing. − the european cultural and creative industries can and should be a major engine of economic growth and innovation, and must be supported and promoted. the creation of conditions to meet these challenges is to be welcomed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since july, violence has escalated once again in the east of the democratic republic of congo. the bloody fighting between m23 rebels and government forces has left thousands dead and countless wounded, forced recruitment of children, brutal attacks on civilians and un peacekeepers, and barbaric sexual assaults on women and children. with the recent increase in funding by the commission, the eu has now become the largest donor of humanitarian aid to the country. but this only makes sense if it effectively prevents the m23 rebels from receiving any external support, especially from rwanda. the deployment and reliability of the african un mission monusco is therefore of great importance. it must use the necessary and robust means to enforce its mandate, in particular to protect the civilian population.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since taking power, elements of the séléka coalition have committed numerous rapes, thefts, looting and other human rights violations in the capital, but also in the provinces. they are not subject to any control and can thus inflict atrocities on the population at will. the international community must therefore clearly condemn the violent and unconstitutional seizure of power by this séléka coalition. those who commit war crimes and crimes against humanity must be brought to justice and punished in accordance with national and international criminal law. the international criminal court is already dealing with the situation in the central african republic. according to its statute - and this should be clear to war criminals - there is no statute of limitations for genocide and no statute of limitations for crimes against humanity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in bahrain, too, spring has turned into autumn, and instead of giving freedom to democracy and the human rights movement, they are being crushed. unfortunately, bahrain is a model for so many states in the middle east, and the fear of change and loss of power among those in power is greater than the courage to face the realities of the 21st century. the double standard of the west is being exposed, because these countries - and bahrain - are officially political and economic partners of the west, and we have been watching human rights violations for too long. you don't want to cut yourself in your own political-economic flesh. but this is not a market where human rights violations are for sale. i should like to remind you of a very pertinent statement by kofi annan: 'the human rights violations of today are the massacres of tomorrow.' we should therefore take seriously the eu's demands for respect for human rights. if they're not met, there must be consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. so, rather than just talking, what is needed is to say something clearly and then act accordingly!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to support this cause in its entirety. i find it scandalous how russia is acting here against lithuania. this is of course linked to lithuania's efforts to provide appropriate support for the eastern partnership summit in vilnius. the measures taken in respect of moldova and ukraine are also to be mentioned. i myself was recently in narva, on the border between estonia and russia, and i saw how the lithuanian lorries and their drivers were being treated with harassment. i think it is absolutely essential that this parliament should speak out very clearly and clearly in the form of an oral question against such measures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to support this in that it is important that we hold the debate with barroso and commissioner malmström so that the time is coordinated accordingly. the whole of europe must help these people, but i also hope that the fishermen who have actually saved lives under penalty of death will be helped, and that this unworthy law will hopefully be changed in italy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that needs to be corrected, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to suggest that we make the resolution at the october ii meeting. i do not think it is possible for us to adopt a resolution immediately after the president returns and reports on lampedusa. i would be very happy to postpone this to 2 october and to draw up a resolution at the end of the debate at the 2 october partsession this week, that is to say in two weeks' time.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank mr florenz for drawing up this report, which we have in fact rejected. why would you do that? as mr florenz has already said, we in the epp are clearly committed to the measures adopted at european union level to protect the climate: the three objectives, the 2020 objectives. we were not able to accept the report because we had set the unilateral target of 25%. it is important for us to focus on planning security for the companies. we have also made it clear that we are prepared to go down to minus 30%, if there is an international agreement on this subject. i think we all agree that climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing humanity. and i think europe has already done a lot to get things done here. but let's not forget that we only account for about 10% of global emissions, and only collective action makes sense. that is why we should now focus our full attention on these joint negotiations in 2015 and, above all, on the report already under preparation: 2030 energy and climate action together. it is important that we then set the right framework after 2020 to make our economy, our continent more efficient and above all to pave the way for renewable energy. it must be clear to everyone that if europe is to continue to succeed, we must rely more on renewable energy, we must rely more on energy efficiency. that is why we have a clear commitment to these three objectives and not just to a single co2 target. the ets certainly has a central role to play, as does international cooperation. but i do not think that the european ets should be compared with other systems. there is a certain fairness to be found in this discussion.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr groote, my question is this: you spoke of taxes. what do you think about giving a tax break to products made without co2 input, a vat reduction or a halving of vat, so that products made very environmentally friendly without co2 can gain a corresponding global market advantage and our clean industry can prove itself better internationally?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. chris davies has spoken directly to me and to our group. chris, i want to ask you: are you aware that we have set the 2020 targets for 20% reduction in law, but at the same time we have said that we will increase to 30% if there is an international agreement. you may also be aware that the 25% is not a legislative limit for us. you know that?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would have asked you to take mr liese on later because he has a television interview to give and is prevented from doing so. with an apology!
in writing. the measures taken so far have not been sufficient to reduce co2 emissions as planned. and it is hardly possible to distinguish between normal business investments and those aimed at improving energy efficiency and climate protection. the fact is that the eu's emissions trading system, which uses the carbon price to encourage investment in low-carbon technologies, is not working well. at best, the european ets cannot provide any incentives for investment in efforts to reduce co2 emissions. at worst, it will only encourage relocation to low-wage countries where environmental protection is a foreign word. the temporary withdrawal of allowances from the market so-called backloading in turn overrides the market mechanisms underlying the emissions trading system. as long as the real big environmental sinners like the us and many emerging countries are left out, we need not be surprised by the ets crisis. and until this crisis is resolved, there is no point in extending it to air transport. instead of trading in carbon credits, which is a hidden development aid, and redistributing total emissions, and converting nuclear power plants into climate-friendly plants, we need to promote renewable energy more.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to emphasize why we actually introduced the health claims ordinance. the aim is not to confuse consumers, but to give them security and to ensure that only products with a scientifically proven health claim can be labelled with that particular benefit. that must be the orientation in this question. i therefore fully agree with what mrs schaldemose has said.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. crushed lice. that doesn't sound very appetizing. but that's what's responsible for the bright red color in soda pop and some candy. the question is whether it is better to have animal ingredients hidden in food or products or chemical additives. on the one hand, it is only fair that the consumer knows what is in it, rather than being left to the food industry. however, it is doubtful that all of them will actually know the corresponding e-numbers by heart. on the other hand, it should not be overlooked in the discussion that the use of some substances has not grown on the dung of the industrial food industry, but the consumer society often has no idea of food production. for example, lab, a substance extracted from the stomach of young calves, has been used to make cheese since ancient times. the discussion should also take into account that quality and safety can also make food a hit in exports. not least since the deaths in china, german milk powder has become an export product. i think that's very interesting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when one considers that the fishing agreements with third countries are aimed at putting a strain on european fishing fleets, that the state of the stocks concerned is at best secondary, if not sufficiently taken into account, and that compliance with fishing quotas is rarely or hardly controlled, it becomes clear that the eu is mostly trying to wrap itself in fisheries agreements as an ecological cloak. the fact that local fishermen do not receive any of the compensation agreed with the eu is a longstanding problem, just as it is well known that industrial fishing fleets are all too easy to deprive small fishermen of their livelihoods. and how that can end, somalia should be a warning example to us! the few black sheep who are caught out with their false catch figures and those caught illegally taking young fish should, in my view, be punished at least more severely. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i also think it is time to look for solutions for the local fishermen so that we do not attract the next generation of potential pirates or illegal migrants to europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gendercide is a gender-neutral term. it refers to the deliberate killing of people of one sex because of their sex. it is a global problem. gender-based violence is literally everywhere, including in europe. gendercide also has the consequence, as the honourable member has already said, of 200 million women being missing from the world population. girls are being discriminated against ruthlessly, for example in the determination of their sex. one of the main reasons i see is the deeply rooted cultural preference for sons in some cases. it is not enough to talk about equal treatment for girls and boys, it is urgent that we demand equal treatment and then live it. the differences in educational opportunities based on sex are unacceptable. i think education is the most important building block to strengthen equality and raise awareness of equality. the fact that this must be a global practice is self-evident.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not so long ago that we in this house not only discussed the brussels i regulation but also, as european legislators, very constructively participated in its revision. since 12 december 2012, we have now signed the recast of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. there are many improvements: this is clearly an added value for the citizens of europe. the exequatur procedure, for example, has been abolished and it will be easier to carry out such executions in the future. however, the commission has chosen the recasting technique in this project and has accordingly omitted some aspects in this procedure which are very important in my view and in the view of the legal affairs committee. the procedure did not cover important aspects relevant to employment law. the important link between jurisdiction in labour matters and the legal system applicable to employment contracts has not been sufficiently taken into account. the workplace has become more transnational and, above all, more rigid. this is proved by spectacular european court cases - i call them torline, but also viking - to which i think we must react. there is a need for european action. the report is based on the principle that the existing labour law provisions of the member states must be protected against being undermined by the competent courts of other member states, or in other words, forum shopping must be prevented. it is necessary to ensure that the courts of a member state have jurisdiction where the labour law of that state is applicable. the place of jurisdiction should be the member state whose law is now applicable. this principle should apply to industrial action and employment contracts. we point out in the report that one of the fundamental principles of private international law is to protect the weaker party, and that often includes people who are employed or involved in industrial action. the european parliament believes that the commission should look at labour law issues in a more in-depth way than it did during the recast to brussels i. the rights and obligations of trade unions in industrial action now vary considerably from one member state to another. what is constitutionally protected in one country may even be illegal in another. i therefore propose that the provisions of the brussels i regulation be brought into line with those of the rome ii regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations. the place of jurisdiction in relation to industrial action should be the place where the industrial action is or has been taking place. the commission, the report says, should pay particular attention to this issue. the commission should also pay more attention to individual employment contracts. the brussels i regulation already contains specific provisions for the protection of workers and for the protection of consumers and insured persons. the reserve criterion of the establishment where the worker was employed often leads to problems in the field of international transport. often there is no real link between the establishment and the daily work. it is difficult to determine from where the employee has been working. a company could be registered in one member state, the means of transport in another. the management is then established in a member state c and the worker may be resident in a member state d. you see, these are all cases which can happen and which require the commission to pay more attention to these issues and in particular to the principle of protecting the weaker party.
i have to say, madam president, i don't smoke myself, but i'm decidedly against government-mandated lifestyles. i am firmly against the state patronizing the citizen with an intrusive state protection cloak. i am against the idea that we should use governance-style moralizing to regulate something that we do not have to regulate, which contradicts my image of a free, competent citizen. there are tens of thousands of alcohol-related deaths every year. when will you, commissioner, make it compulsory to have bottles of wine and whiskey with the appropriate shock images to discourage people from drinking? there are tens of thousands of diabetes tests every year. when are you going to ban sweets? when do you have to put shock images of diabetic test subjects on candy? when will all this happen? these are all government-mandated lifestyles that nobody wants. that is why the european union is becoming increasingly unpopular. you're meddling in things the public doesn't want. the 85 000 entries in the consultation procedure have spoken a clear language. the people don't want that. regulate the things that are necessary, and not those things that are contrary to the free and responsible citizen. the same political forces which call for the liberalization of soft drugs are now opposing tobacco consumption. this is hypocrisy to the core!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you said something about smuggled cigarettes. at least 25% of the products on the market are contraband cigarettes. will the eu regime be enforced here, or will it lead to a sharp increase in the profits of the smuggling mafia? what do you think?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what's the matter? the aim is to drastically reduce the 700 000 deaths caused by smoking in the eu each year - 14 000 of them in austria alone. it is about placing warnings, not bans. it is our responsibility, because it is the safety of our electorate. the very thing we are proposing can deter young people from getting into smoking. we have seen that these small warnings are not enough. now there are the really powerful people in this eu who are telling us: no, no, this must remain as it is or it must not grow to the same size. if this deadly lobbying is to prevail, we should also take a different kind of warning: lobbying can be deadly. or more clearly, lobbying kills! i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we are responsible for the health of our citizens!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i really thought it was blasphemous of mr van der stoep to compare cigarettes to religion. i really think that's beneath good taste. secondly, i think it is cynical to compare the fate of the men and women who work in cigarette factories with the health of the people who smoke. this isn't about custody, not at all! but the point is that we have a duty as legislators to firstly bring products to market that are as safe as possible and secondly to make it clear that there can be drastic consequences if you use such products. does anyone in this room really think cigarettes would be allowed today? it is a traditional product, as i said, but by today's standards it is a product which is unnecessary in and of itself, which is not needed and which has such an impact - 700 000 deaths a year - would you really approve such a product? i think we really have a duty to act. here is also this warning sign with a certain size - i have now proposed in a compromise 65 per cent - the only right way. we must also make every effort to make cigarettes as safe as possible - that is why we have this positive list and also a ban on certain flavourings - and in particular try to prevent young people from smoking, because we all know: people start out relatively young and then really end up dead from addiction later in life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, tobacco use can cause massive health damage, and young people should be discouraged from starting to smoke. i therefore welcome the ban on internet trade, because age limits can be easily circumvented. but what i do not approve of are bans and regulations which are not scientifically based and which leave no room for companies to trade their products, such as the warnings which make up 75% of the packaging. this is a disproportionate interference with intellectual property. commissioner borg: the commission has given itself powers of action by means of a number of delegated acts. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to nicotine. these are clear oversteps of competence. you're ignoring the bill of rights. this in turn leads to intolerable legal uncertainty for the undertakings concerned.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. my motive, and probably that of many others here, for going into politics was to create quality of life, to maintain quality of life and to help advance health care in europe. the present directive gives us a great opportunity to promote this health protection. in austria alone, 29.4% of young people aged 15-24 smoke daily. one cigarette a day. they have been encouraged by their environment, but they are also being seduced. i come from the advertising industry, i studied communications, and i know how many millions and billions are actually flowing into this field because we want to reach new audiences. and that's how the products are designed. the products are designed to be visually pleasing, to be inviting, to look like cosmetic or sugary snacks, not to be intimidating. on the contrary, they are intended to make smoking as pleasant as possible by additives, ingredients that are very harmful to the body but taste like chocolate, menthol or vanilla. we have a great opportunity here to create legislation which, on the one hand, naturally takes account of the economy and of jobs in europe. we are in a time when we have to fight for every job. these jobs must be preserved. but it must be preserved in such a way that, on the other hand, we give our young people the chance of a healthy life, so that we are not blamed for the deaths of 700 000 people in europe. that's 200 people as we speak who... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say quite frankly that i no longer understand certain colleagues. jobs, mr szymański, is not the answer to everything. that's the way it is. it is one of the great advances here in europe that we really have an environmental policy - and a climate policy, because the commissioner is sitting here - who, thank god, has shown progress. we all know that humans are part of an ecosystem. this is why this environmental impact assessment tool is so important. it's from 1985. it has been revised and we have had a codification since 2011. we have between 15 000 and 26 000 of these tests a year in europe and we have found that there are problems with this instrument. the commission has therefore also required improvements. we in the epp are in favour of continuing to use this instrument. only where there are weaknesses should it be improved. the commission has rightly noted, among other things, that the differences between the member states are very great. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also very much welcome the commission's proposal to introduce various stages of procedure with a limited duration. so far, an eia takes about a year. in some states, like mine, it takes over two years. that's the problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the epp therefore tried to improve a few points, for example the paragraph on experts quoted by cristina gutiérrez-cortines. the wording 'competent experts' is better here. as regards shale gas - i know that this is of particular interest to our polish colleagues - we are in favour of the introduction of an eia from the exploration phase onwards, because from this stage onwards there will be environmental impacts. they have to do fracking there, and the groundwater is in danger. i'll tell you one thing: without the uvp you'll have the political problems anyway. there is no longer a country where the people let everything happen to them. i would therefore strongly recommend that you give a full explanation of vote to the president.
in writing. − in practice, the use of existing and future global satellite navigation systems such as gps, glonass, galileo and compass is becoming increasingly important for civilian use as well. each satellite continuously broadcasts its own individual code and its own individual trajectory data. the spatial coordinates allow the calculation of longitude, latitude and altitude, although the coordinate systems used may differ from other commonly used coordinate systems, so that the position determined may differ significantly, especially with respect to older maps. in addition, stationary receiving stations are used to improve positioning accuracy. the full deployment of compass and galileo is expected around 2020. it is to be hoped that the problems and delays which have occurred in a major european project such as sis ii will not occur here. i voted accordingly.
in writing. − the current dependence of eu citizens on the us satellite navigation system gps is dangerous in the long term. firstly, only a fraction of the satellites are licensed by the us government for civilian use, and secondly, access can be terminated at any time by the us. to reduce this dependence, europe must push ahead with the development of its own global satellite navigation system for civilian use. ukraine is an important partner in this respect from a geopolitical point of view. that is why i voted in favour of the decision to conclude an agreement with ukraine.
in writing. - as a result of the major structural changes brought about by globalisation, a large number of workers were made redundant at anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. in lombardy. the eu wants to support measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. strong competition from low-wage countries has put the italian ict sector to the test in recent years, and a reorientation is needed to compensate for the current crisis-related decline in ict demand. i support this report in order to ensure that workers can be fully integrated into the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. − the egf aims to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. italy's application for the ict business has been examined, it refers to 529 redundancies the employment situation in italy has deteriorated, especially in the ict sector which achieved relatively good results in italy in the period 2005-2008, reaching a justifiable level of economic activity, it was also affected by the economic and financial crisis, so that the various ict sectors had negative growth rates. the application meets all the requirements.
in writing. − the egf aims to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the italian demand for the industrial automotive sector has been examined, affecting 1 030 redundancies the labour market and the economic situation in italy have worsened, in fact the entire european automotive sector shrank between 2004 and 2010, the decline in the european market share in the world passenger car market was due to the rapid growth of asian markets. the egf is to be used for the vocational rehabilitation of 1 010 workers. the application meets all the requirements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have agreed with mr gomes' report. it is a very reasonable report, on the whole. the only point i do not share is that paragraph 2 states that in the context of the renegotiation of the interest rate directive, banking secrecy is to be effectively ended. i would like to make it quite clear that i am not in favour of abolishing banking secrecy, but i want to preserve it and that is why i did not support this resolution, which unfortunately was not voted on separately. but otherwise, i have been carrying the report.
in writing. − as the eu is faced with a widening of corruption in all areas, especially due to recent events, a request was made to the commission to combat it in the public and private sectors and with the help of the member states within a legally established framework. the same efforts should be made in the field of human rights to combat corruption within the eu and in third countries. i voted in favour of this motion because i firmly believe that corruption is a fundamental evil that the eu has been dealing with for some time and that it must be combated by the necessary legislative means in all areas.
in writing. - corruption has far-reaching effects. corruption results not only in the misuse of financial resources but also in inequality, injustice, discrimination in public services, security, land ownership, employment, education and health, and the hindrance of economic development. corruption is also often associated with inadequate or non-existent enforcement of human rights and a significant impairment of the efficiency of institutions and bodies, which are necessary in particular to uphold democratic principles. the report aims to reduce corruption in relation to third countries in development policy, peace and stability missions and international aid, in particular by improving the control and payment arrangements for funds allocated. the commission also intends to promote coherence between these external and internal eu measures by introducing a number of improvements also for eu member states, which will help to combat corruption in third countries. as the proper and correct use of eu funds is an important objective and the report presented a number of sensible measures, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the proposal to make development aid programmes conditional on compliance with anti-corruption standards is particularly welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: development aid must go where it is needed and not be lost in corrupt schemes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. the conditions to which the rapporteur refers, and which should be absolutely associated with the provision of external financial assistance, would help to control the payments made by the eu better. the report contains a number of concrete and well-developed approaches which can help to combat corruption outside the eu.
in writing. − the proposed measures are intended to make it much easier in future to enforce decisions in civil and commercial matters in other member states. the court of justice has also been called upon to give its opinion on the question of the interpretation of the treaty on european union. an own-initiative report is planned to address these labour law-related aspects as well. the european court of justice has repeatedly in the past given decisions which are likely to soften the rules on occupational safety and health. this is a dangerous trend which must be stopped, in particular so that these protective provisions cannot be undermined by the internal market or by international legislation. in practice, some developments have also emerged which are of concern to workers, such as the trend towards temporary agency work, and which need to be addressed. unfortunately, these trends have not been adequately addressed in this report. i have taken this into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. − the fact that workers are often in a weaker position must be taken into account and, accordingly, greater emphasis must be placed on their collective and individual protection. it is also useful to ensure that the jurisdiction of the court and the applicable law overlap.
in writing. − this agreement lays down principles which states must take into account in respect of ships flying their flag. the review and enforcement of the maritime labour convention is a particular focus. the maritime labour convention provides comprehensive rights and safety provisions for the more than 1.2 million seafarers in the world. it covers essential issues such as minimum requirements for seafarers to work on ships, conditions of employment, accommodation, recreational facilities, food including service, health protection, medical care, social care and social security, and compliance with and enforcement of requirements to ensure decent living and working conditions on ships, and procedures for implementing these provisions. the aim is to adapt the baseline conditions in the global shipping industry and to establish uniform minimum standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the threat of a crisis.
in writing. − the integration of the maritime labour convention into eu legislation will lead to greater control and regulatory certainty in the european union and will prevent unfair competition and social dumping through clear rules. such developments are to be welcomed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this commission proposal today because it confirms once again the reproach that is levelled at the european union that big things are regulated too small and small things too big, in this case much too big. it is a completely unnecessary crutch of the citizen, an intrusion into his private life, a patronage which the citizen does not want. this is what the 85 000 opinions submitted in the consultation procedure have made clear. i would also like to support what mrs angelilli said, that it only encourages the black market and smuggling, but will achieve nothing else. we shall not win the citizens' sympathy with such regulations. the citizen does not like to be told by a prescribed way of life what he should do and what he should not do. this is a completely unnecessary regulation that people outside are opposed to. the european union has once again shown that it is far from the citizen when it comes to policy.
in writing. − while it is in principle welcome, in the interests of health protection, that smoking and the negative health effects of smoking are brought to the fore and that additives are examined more closely, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the use of additives in the manufacturing of tobacco products. the european commission is going too far in its campaign against smokers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. warnings are not required on 75% of cigarette packs, nor on the proposed 65%. the citizens cannot be deprived of all their rights, nor can their personal freedom of choice be completely restricted. and brussels must not be constantly trying to get new powers through the back door. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry is able to comply with the directive. in other sectors, too, there is complete freedom - think of the unfortunate packaging regulations, which are designed to deceive consumers about the true contents. this is yet another example of double standards in the eu. it is well known that smoking is harmful to health. but neither warnings, nor massive tax increases, nor harassment of hosts will stop our youth from starting to smoke. this requires a social rethinking, which is already under way even without the brussels gangs.
in writing. − smoking is the leading cause of preventable deaths, claiming some 700 000 lives each year. on average, 28% of the population in europe smokes, while in latvia it is 36%. in europe, it is second only to greece! although the eu adopted the tobacco products directive 12 years ago and the number of smokers has fallen since then, the rate is still critically high. this not only negatively affects public health but also increases health care costs. i therefore supported the european parliament's report on the ec directive restricting the marketing of tobacco products in the eu. to reduce the number of young people who turn to tobacco products, it is important to make tobacco products less attractive and to increase the number of smokers by warning labels and pictograms, as well as by prohibiting the use of different characteristic flavours and aromas. trade in tobacco must be strictly controlled. unfortunately, this is difficult to achieve, especially if you sell tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, online. i therefore believe that a ban on the sale of tobacco products online would be a good solution. electronic cigarettes, which are a relatively new product, also need to be regulated by the tobacco directive. they should be labelled as harmful to smokers and should not be sold to persons under the age of 18. the same restrictions as for tobacco products should also apply to the advertising of e-cigarettes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new tobacco products directive. smokers should be free to consume tobacco products, but with precise information on the ingredients. 70% of smokers start before they are 18. it is also our responsibility to discourage as many young people as possible from taking up smoking in the first place. i therefore voted in favour of the warnings on the packaging and against adding flavourings such as chocolate or fruit flavourings. tobacco products should also taste and look like tobacco. e-cigarettes can help people quit smoking. i think it is important, however, from a consumer protection point of view, to regulate the ingredients by law.
in writing. − the coordination of the manufacture, presentation and consumption of tobacco products can and should be a guiding principle for the future course of the european union and the member states in dealing with cigarettes (and other tobacco products). that is why it is crucial to clarify some basic considerations. the protection of minors from developing tobacco addiction is also at the heart of the proposal and is also a top priority. however, it should be borne in mind that it is the individual decision of each adult to choose his means of pleasure freely, provided that he does not endanger others. we must achieve 'as much freedom as possible and as much protection as necessary'. the free choice also includes, and above all, information: combined image and text warnings on cigarette packs are a step in the right direction. it is also positive that the need to tackle tobacco products that are specifically targeted at children and young people has been recognised, since this may decide whether a lifelong addiction is beginning, which causes serious health damage.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report today. this is a small historical report and a historical decision. it is the first resolution of this parliament against abortion. i therefore voted in favour of this report on these grounds of principle. i would like to make it clear, however, that i do not support the wording of paragraphs 23, 24 and 40. there was no separate vote, so i should like to make it clear that i do not support these formulations. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to take this opportunity, with reference to the tobacco debate, to draw attention once again to the contradiction that we are rightly speaking out against abortion, but at the same time the house has rejected the torture of showing shocking images of pro-life activists who wanted to address the issue of abortion. we refuse to see an exhibition of pro-life activists on abortion here in the house, but at the same time we order the consumer outside to see shock images on tobacco packages. that's a contradiction that no one understands.
in writing. the report focuses on the phenomenon of gendercide. the reasons, current developments, consequences and ways of combating prenatal sex selection practices are discussed in detail. the far-reaching economic and social impact of the distorted gender balance in the population caused by gendercide is of concern. i personally am very concerned that women's rights in the area of sexual and reproductive health are promoted and applied not only within the european union but also in third countries. this report once again underlines the european parliament's commitment to equal rights for both sexes, but especially for women. that is why i support this report.
in writing. − the term 'gendercide' refers to the intentional killing of people of one sex because of their gender and is a global phenomenon. i voted for this report because it clearly states that gendercide is a crime and, moreover, a serious violation of human rights with devastating consequences for society. a surplus of men can have long-term effects on social stability and lead to an increase in trafficking, exploitation and rape. i have voted against any amendment which would restrict the right of women to determine their own bodies. access to reproductive health services and technologies is not a problem. the causes of discrimination against women and girls are often linked to legal and traditional social norms. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the eu should therefore work towards the development of legislation against gender selection in all countries concerned, focusing on the cultural and socioeconomic causes of this phenomenon. in the field of development aid, the european union is called upon to make gender equality a part of all its partnerships and dialogues with developing countries.
in writing. − the fact that gendercide continues to exist in the 21st century in a globalised world is shocking and shows the urgent need for action in this area. appropriate legislation and its implementation are essential steps to combat gender selection and, in addition, to raise awareness of the importance of equal treatment between men and women. the respect for human rights and therefore the identification of violations of them is, in any case, a fundamental task of a democratic society. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. − as the current crisis is putting considerable constraints on public finances in the member states, with a very negative impact on eu structural policy, as governments themselves have no funds or are on a rigid austerity path, the committee on regional development calls for more flexibility in the structural funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to cover the financing of the european cohesion policy and rural development, but to create opportunities for the preventive component of the stability and growth pact. but since i believe that these amendments open up more opportunities for misuse of taxpayers' money and that these redistributions make little sense or could be used more wisely, i voted against this motion.
in writing. − the legislative act is essentially an elaborate formulation of the end or circumvention of eu austerity at local and regional level. after much effort and controversy over the past two years, it has been decided that only a consolidation of public finances is the right signal to the capital markets in the long term (the fiscal compact and the stability and growth pact), while at the same time the ecb covers this measure in the short and medium term through its legally limiting omt procedure (government bond purchases on the secondary market), the southern eu regions seem to lose their nerve again. they want more money to increase the deficit of local and regional policy. although some morally correct arguments to cover higher social costs and invest in employment may seem plausible, this is de facto a departure from austerity, partly through eu funds, partly through softer austerity measures. in addition, the largely centralised allocation of eu funds is inefficient, as the eu's watering can is not able to achieve substantial and proportionate effects here. i voted against this because it is inconsistent with the decisions and strategy of recent years and is counterproductive in the long term.
in writing. − in times of financial and economic crisis the eu union and its member states need to use the available financial means of the european union in a safe and very efficient manner. at this point the union and member states should concentrate their strategies on long-term investments in smart, sustainable and economic growth projects. the eu structural funds and the cohesion policy was an important funding and investment tool in the 2007-2013 period and plays an important role in the current fight against the financial crisis. however, since this report calls for abolishing the 3 % deficit rule of the stability and growth pact, i abstained.
in writing. - the pacific has very rich fish stocks. the most important fishing grounds for migratory fish species are located there. 80% of the world's fish are caught in the pacific. i support the recommendation that a long-term fisheries strategy be drawn up for the western and central pacific. the report takes account of the need for coordination of european policies. the aim is to increase potential synergies and to create a multiplier effect. maximising the benefits for both the pacific states and the european union states to increase the visibility of the eu in the region.
in writing. − this report aims to provide a long-term fisheries strategy for the western and central pacific region, thus contributing to the promotion of sustainable use of fisheries resources by promoting the socioeconomic development of the region through adaptation to climate change and regional circumstances.
in writing. - the mediterranean and the black seas have specific characteristics in terms of fisheries. the increased competition for smaller stocks and marine resources and the resulting disputes should be taken into account. i support this report because it is important to develop a regional approach to the conservation of fish stocks and fisheries in the waters, taking into account the transboundary dimension of fisheries and the migratory behaviour of some species.
in writing. - in recent months, we have been hearing in plenary from the committee on fisheries a number of reports, all of which have one thing in common: our seas are overfished and the existing regulations are not sufficient. we need to make a major contribution to sustainable fisheries policy and to harmonise the relevant rules and agreements at international level so that future generations can also have access to sufficient and healthy resources.
in writing. parliament's discharge of the council is definitely not a gentlemen's agreement. the council has to follow the same rules as all the other eu institutions in the presentation of its financial expenditure, simple rules that apply in part to each provincial association! the council does not seem to share this simple view. we are not going to report or respond to shortcomings in budget management or procurement rules! large buildings are acquired without a clear purpose and cost! what do we make of that? secrets, favours, sloppiness or even abuse? the budgetary law of a parliament has always been, perhaps historically, the most important right of parliament. it's obviously being ignored here. the council is now proposing an 'interinstitutional working group' instead. we want clear information and proper cash management and no working groups with further delaying tactics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many of us have emphasized in this debate that one in four or one in five women in europe is exposed to this violence in a relationship. that is, it also affects the social life, the attitudes of people when they live in such a relationship. in turkey, where the convention was adopted in april 2011, the figures are even more shocking: 42% of all women in turkey suffer physical or sexual violence from their husbands. domestic violence happens behind closed doors. so we can also assume that the dark figure is much higher. and this convention is now able to break a taboo, namely the taboo that ultimately surrounds the communication and combating of violence against women. the commissioner, the council representative, the fight against violence must remain a priority. you have now heard it said by many of us in this house: violence is a no-go. we need binding legal standards to protect women, children and, finally, the elderly from domestic violence!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. between 12 and 15 per cent of women in europe are victims of domestic violence every day. it is not based on a particular age or skin color. it can affect any social class and any family relationship. to date, only two member states of the european union have ratified the convention. when will everyone else follow? how long are we gonna wait? when will we finally agree, at european and global level, that the principle of 'zero tolerance for violence' should apply? how many women and children have to suffer unspeakable suffering because of being beaten or even abused in their homes and society is watching? we have the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i urge you to do everything possible to ensure that violence against women, children and the elderly is no longer a daily occurrence in our member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. domestic violence, violence against women and children is unfortunately a reality in european daily life, a reality that is unfortunately very hidden. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. but even from the perspective of hidden immigration from countries where women's equality is a foreign word, we have to note that islamic-based forced marriage, genital mutilation, and even honor killings are increasing dramatically. we must therefore no longer talk and plan, we must act! as an austrian, i welcome all activities, especially in terms of a binding legal framework, because in my country, fortunately, the protection laws of 1997 and 2009 have set the right path and we will therefore support all activities in this direction.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs keller, i fully agree with what you have said, particularly as regards the problem of these investor protection clauses. it is not right that democratic states of law - and the european union is made up of only such states - can be brought to their knees by such clauses. do you agree that we should find a system whereby on the one hand the judiciary in developed democracies can function independently, but on the other hand investors in less developed democracies might perhaps be protected in some way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when does europe work well? europe works well when it does not have a cacophony of voices from the member states, but when europe speaks with one voice. and that's what happens in trade policy. it is therefore, of course, good that europe is concluding an investment agreement and not that individual member states are trying to do so and then end up being the weaker ones. but the question is, of course, under what conditions. i agree with those colleagues who say that we must maintain and enforce our social standards in china. we must also be able to enforce our environmental standards. we must be able to enforce human rights standards. then we're ready to make deals. otherwise it's going to be very difficult, and otherwise i don't think it would be worth it. i would like to conclude by saying that i personally think mrs keller's proposal is a good one. we must also question investment protection agreements if they conflict with democracies based on the rule of law. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr scholz. that is a very interesting question. the added value is, i think, if we succeed in getting what is important to us into such an investment agreement. we are a country or something that is very strongly oriented towards human rights, towards social standards, towards environmental protection. and these are things that are also incredibly important to us in the investment agreements. i believe that we will only succeed in doing this as the european union and not as a cacophony of individual member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the elimination of the large number of bilateral investment agreements between the eu member states and china is a sensible move. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of investors are respected. this means that the same law should apply to all member states. the eu's economic superiority - still present - and the good negotiating position it enjoys should not, however, lead to any temptation to be careless or hasty. in addition to the mandatory, self-evident transparency and fairness of the negotiations, it is important to observe certain rules of the game. for example, public services must be excluded from the negotiations, restrictions must also be imposed in sectors where there is a legitimate public interest, and of course - very important and already mentioned today - we want to ensure that important european social, environmental and data protection standards are respected. chinese investment is fine and dandy, but certainly not with social and environmental dumping in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the assumption that chinese investors would invest more in europe without a variety of different arrangements is known to be one of the main arguments for an investment agreement. whether this is true remains to be seen. finally, in 2009, as america and the eu weakened, thousands of chinese exporters were reportedly forced to close. and the officially low unemployment rate is probably only of moderate significance. after all, there is supposedly a huge group of frustrated young unemployed unrecorded, and warnings of giant chinese real estate bubbles are also increasing. on the one hand, china is certainly an important trading partner of the eu, on the other hand, due to the barriers that still exist, the investments of european countries in china are low. and as long as the requirements of mandatory cooperation with chinese firms, which in the past have all too often been the subject of technical know-how, are maintained, i do not think that this will change any time soon.
a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and china would be of great importance. the agreement would thus apply to the entire eu area and replace the existing bilateral agreements between a total of 26 eu member states. the effect of such an agreement should be to increase investment in the eu and also in china significantly. in 2011, these investments were around 2% by the eu and 0,4% by china. the agreement will open up access to a highly attractive and vast chinese consumer market, which could benefit many european investors. the main focus is on foreign direct investment, which is of particular interest to the eu. to achieve this, the agreement aims to level off market access restrictions on the one hand and the unequal competition between chinese and european investors on the other. to cover the latter in a comprehensive way, the agreement should include binding clauses on social and environmental standards, the protection of european public services, intellectual property rights and data protection. finally, in addition to the above, the agreement aims to provide greater transparency, legal certainty and fair treatment for eu investors.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr zīle, your political group is always rather critical of the need for europe to act in unity and is also rather critical of european unification. do you not think that this is an opportunity to show quite clearly that a united europe can be much stronger than a divided europe? and could you perhaps also urge your colleagues in your political group to do something in this direction?
i have to say, madam president, i believe that since the financial and debt crisis, the world should be governed by the following principle: the european union is a great example of this. and whether it was greece that was attacked by speculators or whether it is lithuania that is attacked by a former superpower, i think the same thing applies to this european union. and then measures have to be taken, as they were taken during the financial crisis. i am not sure, however, whether we should respond to clear power-political attacks with trade policy measures or with purely trade policy measures. if someone starts playing games with us, whether it's the russians or anyone else, we should play along. let them see what they can get out of it. we should think about reacting more energetically to this. commissioner, you have a very fine reputation now in china. maybe you're looking forward to getting an equal reputation in russia as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has now presented us with four points, partly based on a future regulation which was not even before us during the deliberations and debates in the committee. you want me to trust you now? that is a bit much to ask, in my view. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. until we have something concrete, we can't talk about it. no wonder this subject is so highly emotional. i would like to refer to three questions that arise. first, why do we have stricter rules for truck drivers without big loopholes for the airlines? why are only those studies which argue in the interests of the airlines accepted and referred to when they are submitted? and why are the airlines so happy about your proposal as they are about the proposal on passenger rights? the effects of fatigue have been a subject of long scientific study. shiftwork, monotony, irregular start times, start at night, end at night lead to - and this has been proven - increased accident risks! commissioner, if you ignore this, then i think you are taking a very dangerous path in this house. we can and must prove that we are acting in the interests of the citizens and not in the interests of isolated pressure groups, which have also worked very hard here. (applause) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.'
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs lichtenberger, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you. it was the green resolution that led to something happening that we had not really expected, namely that things suddenly started to move. we agreed to it, and i think that's a good thing. now, if things are going to move, what would it take for you to say, that's enough movement, we could go with that?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this question is very easy to work with. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but as long as the addition of standby and flight times is still in that long range and there is only a promise that it will not exceed the standby times, of course i cannot agree to that. as long as the regulation is always voluntary, that states may be allowed to go further in their provisions, i cannot accept that. but if there are really clear and specific proposals, then no problem. i just want it in writing. i am not satisfied with a promise made here in plenary in very general terms. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're in a stupid situation now. i 'll say this quite frankly: it is stupid because we seem to have been unable to deliver a satisfactory result for many pages. we talked to a lot of people before we made this decision. we have spoken to the unions, to industry and to the pilots, and in the end there was a certain unease in principle about the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the first idea which i think actually came up in committee, and which is quite sensible, was: let us talk to the commission! this needs to be repaired and changed. there may be different approaches to how to improve and change. but then what happened? the commission has strictly refused to change anything! i think that was the reason why the committee on transport rejected this commission proposal. and now all of a sudden, the proposals. now the proposals will come in a week's time. we are supposed to get an e-mail from the commission tomorrow with a definite proposal. this is not working! (applause from the centre) it is not possible to decide what the outcome should be in the three or four hours between the morning and the vote. this is not serious! unlike other topics that are sometimes discussed here, aviation safety is a very serious subject. that is why i am of the firm opinion that we should not vote tomorrow. we should look carefully at what the commission is proposing and postpone the vote. unless something changes, i have to say, i see no reason to agree. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on eu and member state measures to deal with the flow of refugees from the conflict in syria (2013/2837 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in the framework of our group we had the possibility to speak with three refugees from syria. one of them is palestinian, and the young lady described the difficulty she had – especially as a palestinian, because not all arab countries are very open-minded toward palestinian refugees. she came by boat, via the mediterranean sea. 100 people died during this crossing. she was lucky and could come to europe. they also told us that, in spite of torture and imprisonment in syria, they had difficulties in getting even a permit for transitional stay in the european union. when i asked them what they want, and what they expect from europe, they said very clearly: ‘we want to go back, but perhaps you could give us some training, some expertise. it does not make much sense, if we have peace again in syria, that european experts come to do the reconstruction. we want to be the experts for reconstruction with the help of the european union’. i think this is the task we have to fulfil. i fully agree that we have to open our borders for limited numbers for limited times, but we have to do it. the commissioner said that we are different in different countries. if you look at the figures for refugees, the number of asylum seekers, and especially the instances of acceptance and recognition of asylum seekers, we have a wide variety in europe. some countries do their job, some countries do not do their job. therefore i was very disappointed at the home affairs council. a task force – another task force. we need action, not task forces. we know what we have to do and in our resolution it is written what we have to do. i agree with mr weber in this case. i wrote to mr van rompuy yesterday, urging him to put the issue on the agenda of the next european council meeting in two weeks’ time. it is not only an issue for the ministers of the interior. we know there are professional limitations. it is an issue for all of us, and all the governments and the prime ministers have to do their job. again: yes, we have to take the refugees, but it is not only about giving them certain things. we should give them the chance to learn here in europe, to learn some skills, to learn about democracy, about freedom, about liberties. they want a syria without assad and without jihadists. they want a free syria and we should give them the chance. in our resolution we ask the neighbouring countries to keep their borders open: to jordan, to turkey, to lebanon and others. are our borders open? very often they are not. we should be very honest. why do we not create safe humanitarian corridors for the people to come? why do we not create enough temporary accommodation for the people to come and give them education and training? yes, it is absolutely true; we have to stop that cruel war. the destruction of chemical weapons is a first step – but no more than a first step. we have to continue our work until there is peace and conciliation in syria. then the people will come back. they do not want to stay, they will come back. they should have the chance to build a new syria, as i said before. let us together work so that, from the tragedy of being refugees, these people get an opportunity to go back to their country and build a new syria with skills and education and the philosophy of the european union and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the syrian tragedy is also the result of a wrong policy on syria by the european union, to which this parliament has also contributed. we have too early sided with the so-called syrian resistance and in so doing have in fact supported terrorist networks. and these terrorist networks, which the commissioner has also mentioned, are partly responsible for the hundreds of thousands of refugees, especially the christian minorities, who are living or have lived in syria. we have already taken in syrian refugees in austria itself. and when you listen to their accounts of the atrocities of these terrorist mercenaries, who are partly financed by arab countries, especially qatar and saudi arabia, you know that it's not just the regime that is responsible for some of this, but that these networks, which were supported too early by the west, are also partly responsible. therefore, the rich arab world - particularly qatar and saudi arabia, with the highest per capita incomes in the world - must also be included in the financing of the refugee crisis. they're responsible for the mercenaries they sent to get us there. they are financing arms supplies to these terrorist networks, they are financing mercenaries from afghanistan and pakistan, and they are therefore part of the financing of the response to this tragedy. that is what is missing from this resolution, and i regret that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the loser of the syrian crisis is already clear: the population! six million refugees inside and outside syria are the consequence. i am convinced that a real solution can only be a political solution. we have taken the first steps towards this, and i hope that they will also be successful. it's going to take time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i believe it is absolutely necessary to make the camps, which can hold up to 150 000 people, winter-proof so that these people also have a chance to survive the winter in a dignified manner, and in the region. the second is that it is necessary - and here i also support the commission's action - to build and strengthen the infrastructure in the towns near the syrian border and to build schools, for example, because a large proportion of the refugees are children, and to build infrastructure such as water supply and sewerage. it's a long-term effect. and a large proportion of the refugees are already living there with their families. thirdly, we must also draw the attention of the arab states. it is not just europe that is being called to account here. it is not only the countries bordering on the mediterranean which are now bearing the greatest burden, and europe, which is the biggest donor, but also the arab countries, which should be made to take part in the task of distributing the refugees coming from the arab region in the arab world. i have spoken to many people in zatari and i have learned that people in the region want to be cared for. the first priority should therefore be to bring aid to the region, so that people can return to syria as soon as possible after the conflict.
i have to say, madam president, the simplification of the recognition of vocational qualifications can certainly help to combat youth unemployment. the mobility of skilled workers must not, however, be at the expense of existing efficient training systems. dual vocational training systems are an essential factor in successfully integrating young people into the labour market, they are practical and relevant to their needs. these systems should not be undermined, but should serve as best practice models for other member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this means that language skills must be a prerequisite for all occupations. it is also necessary to prevent subcontractors, especially in the construction industry, from operating across borders without proof of minimum qualifications, thereby displacing jobs in the construction industry through dumping prices. these sectors, particularly construction, must be protected from future dumping.
in writing. i voted for this report because the amended directive will bring about substantial improvements for mobile workers. the introduction of the european professional card will mean that in future they will no longer have to contact the authorities of the country of destination themselves, which is already a certain obstacle, but will be able to contact the authorities of their country of origin. they shall, after examination, forward the application to the competent authority in the country of destination, which shall accept or reject the application in accordance with precise criteria. in any case, the applicant has the right to an answer from the authority - this too has often been left unfulfilled. the european professional card, which is to be introduced within the next two years, will thus save the workers concerned time, money and red tape. however, they are subject to strict criteria. in particular, in the medical professions - which also involve patient safety - not only formal professional qualifications but also practical experience and linguistic skills are strictly checked. the european professional card is a two-in-one solution: on the one hand, it is now easier for workers to work abroad in accordance with their education and qualifications. on the other hand, the framework conditions are being created to stop wage dumping at the expense of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. before you go off to a whistle concert, please listen to me. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's air transport industry is not compromised by the fact that the community's air transport industry is not able to compete with the other member states. he did so in very general terms. so we do not know exactly what the commission's proposal is now. the resolution we are voting on now rejects the proposal because we have, of course, negotiated on the basis of what was before this debate. i believe that a parliament must know what it is voting on. (applause from the centre) i therefore ask you to postpone the vote to give parliament the opportunity to receive the commissioner's proposals in writing and to discuss them. (calling) (applause from the centre)
in writing. − the european commission has been working in recent years to improve the management and control of eu funds. despite all these efforts, far too much money is still being lost, going to the black box, being spent on meaningless actions - like skiing in the desert - and tax evasion. the savings potential of the european parliament and the eu agency jungle alone is enormous. in recognition of the commission's efforts, i did not vote this time to refuse discharge, but abstained.
in writing. - in fact, the council and the european council have been accused for some time of failing to fulfil their duty of providing information and evidence to the european parliament on the use of funds during the period in question. a number of significant expenditure, for example the résidence palace hotel in brussels for the new european council building, was not clearly presented, nor was the purpose stated. it does not respond to requests for information and a number of other expenditure items are not subject to the principle of eu procurement rules. the council and the european council seem to see the discharge by the european parliament as a kind of gentlemen's agreement and are obviously bothered by the control issues of the ep. on the other hand, to excuse the council, it is the representation of the member states and without them there would be little eu funding. the council thus indirectly has its own money. i have decided to abstain from voting on the legislative resolution because of this difficult situation.
in writing. - i can only agree to the speediest possible settlement of this matter. the harmonization of environmental standards is welcome in that it avoids the need for manufacturers to comply with different standards for different markets and thus improves competition.
in writing. − the possibility of occupational mobility is of considerable benefit to eu citizens. however, as this report shows, many still face the obstacle of vocational recognition, which is not yet fully achieved by the much-cited mobility. the aim is to achieve greater harmonization of training standards, as is already being done in the bologna process. the training criteria and definitions are gradually being aligned. the introduction of the so-called european professional card is once again under discussion in the case of the approximately 800 recognised professions in the eu. this means that every worker in a foreign eu country receives such a card after verifying that he or she meets the criteria for the exercise of his or her profession. i abstained because i believe that it may be a long process before the criteria for occupations can be uniformly defined. i also believe that what has already been achieved in part by the bologna process cannot be easily transferred to other professions outside academia.
in writing. − recognition of qualifications can be a long and complex process, as those who have had to overcome bureaucratic obstacles for professional reasons have found. the new directive will make this process much easier, which is why i voted in favour of it. the new directive will help professionals who need to work abroad temporarily or acquire additional skills, and will ensure that they do not have difficulties returning to latvia later on to continue their career in the profession they have acquired. from the point of view of consumers, it is important that an alert mechanism be set up to speed up the exchange of information between member states in cases where a person who is banned from working in a particular profession attempts to work in the same profession in another member state. this is especially important in the medical field. the minimum training requirements for doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, grandmothers, veterinarians and architects will also be updated, thus ensuring that there are uniform standards at eu level. the new directive will also ensure that professionals are taught the national language, which will be subject to control and supervision by the competent authorities of the member states.
in writing. − our citizens are ready to settle in other eu countries, they are ready for mobility. the eu will be able to remove many of the redundant obstacles, which are bureaucratic in nature and based on the differences between member states, from this directive, which has been carefully negotiated and considered. this is another advantage of the eu that our citizens can really benefit from.
in writing. − free movement within the eu is a valuable asset and one of the most useful institutions in the eu. but the functioning of the schengen agreement and the free movement of persons also depend on how easy it is for non-eu citizens to enter the schengen area. this was confirmed by the closure of the schengen borders by various member states when they saw themselves threatened by excessive immigration or crime. i think it is dangerous to have too easy a procedure for issuing visas with the countries of the caucasus. this region is geographically close to the countries of iraq and syria, which are highly destabilised by terrorism and civil war. organized crime is also a problem. i therefore abhor a too hasty and purely numerical eu doctrine for concluding new visa agreements. it ignores dangers, it also relies on banal megalomania and it indirectly threatens the integrity of the schengen area and its underlying idea. i therefore voted against the legislative resolution.
in writing. − it is both sensible and necessary to build up negotiations with third countries on appropriate agreements following the enlargement of the eu's external borders. the european union acts on the basis of the principles that have helped to shape it: democracy, the rule of law and good governance are at the heart of its approach. the conclusion of well-negotiated agreements, such as the current readmission policy agreement with the republic of armenia, contributes to the overall stabilisation of the region as a whole.
in writing. − with the increase in public health awareness, the food industry has found a lucrative niche in the saturated food market. because in our modern society, food is not only meant to make you feel full and taste good, it's also meant to make you feel healthy. food companies therefore advertise their products with various medical promises. yogurt is said to help with digestion or activate the immune system. margarine is supposed to lower cholesterol. it is important to contain the growth of wild health promises. however, the audit authority is overburdened. i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution deals with the question of whether the commission's proposed amendment to a 2012 regulation should be rejected by means of a new regulation. the new regulation provides for the amendment of the list of health claims to be made on food, as the commission stated that it was not yet in a position to make a full assessment in 2012 and that it intends to amend the existing list of the 2012 regulation. unfortunately, this new list contradicts some of the basic conditions of existing regulations on health claims on food, as they must not be ambiguous or misleading. while good food quality information is a useful provision for the consumer to make his own choice, it is important that this information is also reliable and actually helpful. in the worst case, the opposite is achieved in the consumer. the increase in the amount of information and the ambiguity of the information would thus hinder the consumer's ability to make an assessment. as this is the case with the new list, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the commission's new draft regulation.
in writing. - this proposal deals with the subject of food safety. the intended use of the food, due to its health-promoting or disease-preventing properties, must not be incorrect, unclear, misleading or misleading in relation to nutrition and health claims.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the new regulation is intended to reduce the monitoring obligations of official veterinarians in respect of animals which are subsequently processed for food. i share the view expressed in the motion for a resolution that this step by the commission is too hasty and reckless. a substantial part of our food safety in terms of disease, disease, but also transport and animal welfare is ensured by official veterinary controls. the commission has recently adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i also think that in the age of pigs or birds, the monitoring of animals by official veterinarians is an important but not comprehensive aspect of food safety. i therefore oppose any reduction in the powers and duties of official veterinarians and have voted in favour of the resolution accordingly.
in writing. − the eu-china investment agreement will replace the 26 existing bilateral agreements between individual eu member states and china. the content of this resolution is intended to improve the current situation between the eu and china. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. the eu and the us have agreed to work together on a new framework for the eu's external relations. it should be noted that a closer economic relationship with taiwan is in no way contrary to the eu's 'one china' policy. the negotiations with taiwan must be examined in economic terms and not linked to the eu's relationship with china. in any case, due consideration must be given to smes. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution calls for an upgrade in eu-taiwan commercial relations by opening negotiations on bilateral agreements on investment and market access. trade relations between the eu and third countries should be sustained, especially in these days when europe is struggling with an unstable market economy. investment, production, and distribution/trade should be supported, as well as and especially small and medium-sized companies. in general, the ability to invest and to invest ‘abroadʼ – beyond the euʼs borders – has to be improved. and public and citizensʼ rights and national interests are protected by very specific clauses.
in writing. − flying has become a global means of transport. accordingly, care must be taken to ensure that the highest possible level of safety is ensured for passengers and flight crew. rest periods must be strictly observed and standby times must be counted significantly more. the commission proposal aims to harmonise and reduce flight times across the eu. this means that only 13 more hours, 11 hours at the control stick at night, are allowed. the reduction of the number of hours of service allowed cannot in itself guarantee an increase in air safety. the commission proposal, which is based on studies commissioned by easa, is far from sufficient. studies commissioned by the european aviation safety agency (easa) have produced new results, but have ignored scientific facts that should have been taken into account. i agree with the resolution that it appears that an attempt has been made to trick the european parliament into ignoring the proposal and to go beyond the powers of easa, so i voted in favour of the resolution. the european parliament must also be able to exercise its full power of control in the field of aviation safety.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'aircraft' in the definition of the term 'aircraft' and to extend the scope of the term 'aircraft' to include the use of the term 'aircraft' in the definition of the term 'aircraft'. since pilot fatigue is a major safety risk and since air transport should be governed by principles similar to those of road freight transport in terms of social and safety aspects, this commission implementing regulation is harmful. in addition, such a far-reaching political decision should involve the council and parliament and not be subject to the sole arbitrariness of the commission or the agency. i voted for the resolution for these reasons, not least because every citizen of the eu has the right to sit in an aircraft with a rested pilot.
in writing. - i am very disappointed in the commission's approach. last night a change was agreed to the proposal, which was to be decided today by the plenary of the parliament, without any possibility of considering or discussing the new proposal. that is why i voted in favour of postponing the vote. after the postponement was rejected, i voted for the resolution, that is to say, for the rejection of the commission's proposal. the safety of passengers and the health of pilots are too important to accept a proposal which is crude and has been changed at short notice. the commission proposal had some weaknesses from the outset. the maximum time for night flights of 11 hours for pilots is particularly questionable. several scientific studies recommend a maximum of ten hours. many of the concerns of the workers concerned with whom i have been in contact in this respect have still not been addressed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. if the international community is to assume its responsibility, it must name those countries which are fuelling this conflict from outside. these are mainly saudi arabia, qatar and the emirates, which are providing huge amounts of money to ensure that mercenaries and weapons are delivered to syria to kill people there. that is not mentioned in this resolution, not a word! i therefore voted against this resolution because it is flawed on this one point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we are supposed to bear the cost while the others continue to finance the mercenaries and the weapons that are being shipped to syria to kill people and produce refugees? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is only intended to provide the basis for european taxpayers to pay for wars that others have started. that is out of the question for me and for the european taxpayers!
in writing. - i have already pointed out on several occasions, at the beginning of the syrian crisis and also in the aftermath of the upheavals of the so-called arab spring, the foreseeable impact on refugee movements. the eu has nevertheless preferred to bury its head in the sand and hope that millions of euros in aid for the building of more democracy will help to stabilise the situation and to solve the problem of the massive influx of refugees. this was not the case, of course. while understanding the human tragedies of the war refugees, syria is surrounded by safe neighbouring countries which are closer to the refugees culturally and religiously and therefore more able to provide them with the care they need and where people can integrate with their fellow believers. the precarious situation of christian refugees from syria, who are not safe even in neighbouring countries, is not addressed in this report. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the eu is already overwhelmed by the continuous influx of economic refugees and further action is to be rejected.
in writing. - the events in syria are a particular tragedy. the arab spring began with hope, as in other countries in the region. the assad regime, which is still in power, responded with repression and violence. it plunged the country into the greatest crisis in its history. the balance sheet is devastating. more than 100 000 dead, a third of the population displaced and 2 million refugees in neighbouring countries alone. this burden can only be partially met with the help of the european union. it is the responsibility of the european institutions to ensure that the funds promised are actually paid and, above all, that they are paid on time. the aid should not be limited to the financial side. the union's neighbourhood policy in particular is called upon to develop new programmes. in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe, european asylum and migration policy cannot remain in business as usual. the first is that the instruments available in the asylum procedure and in family reunification need to be used more generously. but on the other hand, the union should also take new paths. an important step would be to reactivate the 2001 'mass flow directive' created in the wake of the yugoslav war. this instrument could serve as a legal framework for a european resettlement programme based on quotas for individual member states.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. do you mean this party in connection with your extremist activities in greece?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr chountis, allow me to ask you a question: do you also believe that the emergence of extreme right-wing and left-wing movements in greece is primarily due to the failure and corruption of the established greek parties and to a failed european policy? but is it not primarily the corruption within the ranks of those parties whose representatives we have heard first that is to blame for the emergence of such extremist movements?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr toussas, i would like to ask you: do you suspect or have any knowledge that these extremist groups are financed from outside europe and that the money may come from tax havens or offshore companies? is there any reasonable suspicion?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. either you give concrete examples of the existence of third reich nostalgics, or you apologize for this enormous assumption!
i have to say, madam president, there are two things to consider in connection with the far-right violence in greece. firstly, no member state is immune from the possibility of similar incidents. there is no national or ethnic disposition to right-wing extremism. secondly, right-wing extremism depends mainly on the political and economic situation. the cause and effect of this is particularly evident in greece. the golden dawn has arisen in the wake of the crisis, it is the result of faulty political governance at home and of the community's wrong responses to this crisis. the draconian austerity measures imposed by the ideological prescriptions of a neoliberal course of restructuring have taken away from many people all hope for the future. they have been forced into the role of victims, eager to seek simple explanations and scapegoats. where confidence in social justice is no longer being met, political deceivers have an easy game. this is something that all those who are too frivolously advocating unthinking austerity policies should bear in mind.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not solve the growing migration of people from east and west africa with conferences, not with campaigns, but the desperation is so great that it cannot be stopped. we must therefore develop concepts. we must tackle the root of the problem and change the framework in the medium term so that people can stay in their countries, that they have the political and economic conditions and are not forced to go on the road, wandering across africa, looking for a way out. we must also act in the short term: we must oblige the north african states to prevent and control this illegal shipping activity here too. we must also continue to work towards expanding eurosur and frontex, away from the patrol-based intelligence work. we need satellite surveillance, we need other mechanisms to match it. and thirdly, the trafficking gangs must be controlled and strict measures taken and used against them.
the mediterranean is the cradle of european civilization. it's about to become a mass grave. no one knows exactly how many people have died so far. europe must face up to this problem. an even stronger lockdown will not allow that. we need a different policy towards countries of origin and we need a more sensible immigration strategy. but above all, we also need short-term solutions. it must be made clear that the primary obligation of frontex is to save lives first. the proposed regulation on the establishment of the surveillance of external maritime borders, in line with the case law of the european court of justice, is an important step forward.
the commission has already done so. we must be clear about one thing: the tragedy of lampedusa was caused by traffickers who led people to their deaths with false promises. the question is, how do we best deal with these criminal organizations? how can we effectively tackle the causes of this illegal migration? one thing must be clear: europe has instruments and we should coordinate these instruments in the best possible way in the fight against trafficking. this includes europol, frontex and, in particular, the new eurosur border surveillance tool. i believe that we will increase the chances in the fight against traffickers, that we will increase the chances through new cooperation with third countries, which we will also urgently need - you have the right idea - and that we will ultimately help save a lot of lives. i would also like to say that all these measures are not enough. we will have to invest much more in development aid to stabilize states that are not intact, that are not able to provide for their people, where the real causes of this migration are. and we should also consider a proposal from me that we launch information campaigns in the countries of origin through the mass media to make people aware of the dangers they face if they fall into the hands of smugglers and also to inform them about the legal immigration options in the european union. a whole package should help prevent this drama from happening again.
i have to say, madam president, we should not forget how the agreement was reached. the americans illegally siphoned off the swift bank data from the europeans a few years ago. and what has the european union done? it has not sanctioned this practice but has rewarded it by legalizing it afterwards. the answer to the question whether we should suspend this agreement is, for me personally, quite simple: yes, of course! i would also go so far as to say that we should also terminate this agreement. what i lack in this debate is simply honesty. we should be honest and say that suspending this agreement, the committee of inquiry we have in parliament, nominating edward snowden for the sakharov prize, are not going to solve the real problem. what is the real problem? the problem is, we're degrading people into data objects. these objects are then monitored and traded by companies, by security agencies, whatever. it is a matter of the dignity of the individual, of his fundamental rights and, ultimately, of his status as a legal person. the relationship between the state and the citizen is increasingly eroding. it is characterized by fear and, ultimately, by generalized distrust. what do we need? we finally need a giant vision, a vision as big as the moon landing. we need a vision as big as the conquest of space, as big as the discovery of america! and this is not going to be done through committees of inquiry, but this is going to be done ultimately by answering the big questions: the big questions of internet governance, the big questions of internet infrastructure, the big questions of internet economics and ultimately also the big questions of privacy-friendly research. we need that big throw. the nsa gentlemen are laughing their asses off watching our debate. if they didn't, we wouldn't have a problem either!
i have to say, madam president, i will summarize the discussion again: the swift treaty allows us authorities to target the account movements of eu terrorism and serious crime suspects, but only under strict data protection and privacy requirements that have been hard fought for by the european parliament. that's the point. the commission has not yet been able to establish the exact amount of the aid to be granted to the beneficiaries. the european parliament, as the guardian of the interests of the citizens, is needed in this context. it's about more than just writing letters and getting answers. it's about fact-checking. until it is clearly stated that privacy is guaranteed, i believe we should not be passing on any more data to the united states. the swift programme should therefore be suspended until further notice. the european citizens' rights must not be sacrificed to relations with the united states, important as they are. the investigation of all the events must be our main concern. we cannot continue as before, pretending that nothing has happened. this would be seen as an endorsement of the current approach and a free hand to systematically violate european data protection standards. that cannot and must not be in our interest! it is time to send signals that will be understood on the other side of the atlantic.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i agree with my colleague, mr díaz de mera, on the importance of the treaty of prüm: it is an important and useful instrument in the fight against crossborder crime, and crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities is an important success factor. it is also essential that citizens' rights are respected and that data transferred under the agreement is protected. the prüm treaty unfortunately contains considerable weaknesses in terms of data protection. for example, there is no clear definition of the term 'personal data', etc. this is what the european parliament has already called for in its opinion adopted in 2008. even the 1981 council of europe convention on the protection of personal data in the processing of automatic data, adopted in the stone age, provides for an obligation to guarantee in national law subjective rights to secrecy, erasure, rectification and information, and for the monitoring of data exchange by an independent supervisory body. with a legislative proposal, we have the opportunity to achieve improvements to the level of the european parliament resolution, the council of europe regulation and the data protection package currently in the decision-making process. i hope that the ministers of the interior will take up the matter with the same enthusiasm as they did when they signed the prüm treaty before the treaty of lisbon came into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, may i congratulate you on your birthday this week, madam president. secondly, i would like to turn to the subject of the future. the objective of the eea agreement is, as stated in article 1 thereof, to promote a continuous and balanced strengthening of trade and economic relations between the contracting parties with a view to creating a homogeneous european economic area. the four freedoms in the eu's internal market are not the only areas where there are horizontal provisions for cooperation, but also in the so-called accompanying areas. we believe that this is important and necessary, because we have long recognized that research and technological development, education and training, youth employment, energy, entrepreneurship, etc. are all interdependent. i therefore say that we must rethink the eea, namely all that is necessary to strengthen the european economic area. the single market and the euro are the two engines of prosperity within the european union. the council of europe is in our neighbouring building. i am referring in general to the future: no application for eu membership without membership of the council of europe, no application for eu membership without membership of the european economic area, no more bilateral agreements, but the economic area is the court of accession negotiations, and the council of europe is the court of application for accession! we should therefore rethink the eea in the timetable, and then we would save ourselves a lot of trouble and really be able to shape the future of the european economic area.
author. − mr president, russia is an important country in the eu’s external relations. russia is a member of the council of europe and has signed the european declaration on human rights, so we supposedly have a shared commitment as europeans to human rights standards on this continent, but what we are seeing at the moment is really a scary increase in violence against certain people. we are going to be talking this morning especially about lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people – or people perceived to be lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. recently, two laws have been passed – one at federal level, one prior to that in st petersburg – which prohibit ‘propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations to minors’. do you know what that means? that means that publicly talking about homosexuality is seen as a crime and organisations can be fined up to eur 22 700. that has already led to problems for the side by side film festival in st petersburg – it cannot function any more. there is something else which totally discriminates against human rights organisations: the ‘foreign agents law’ means that any human rights activists who get funding from abroad are seen as foreign agents, as spies. what we should be spying on is on how russia deals with human rights violations. this law against propaganda aimed at minors of non-traditional sexual relations – what would it have meant 100 years ago? there were famous russian people like tchaikovsky or peter the great who are known to have had homosexual relations and to have been gay. so what does putin, what does the duma want with a law like that? it simply serves to discriminate, to increase violence, and that is condoned by the state. commissioner, our question was to you and also to the council, which unfortunately is not represented here today: what are you doing in order to make sure that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights are safeguarded in russia? we need to be stronger on that, because otherwise we have greater problems with people being humiliated, being raped by people who say, well, these are people who are not human, who need to be forced to be healed. we know that we have major problems in russia with violence against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. what are you doing, commissioner, to make sure that in our foreign relations we debate that and we make sure that putin and the duma will change that law?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament passed a resolution a few weeks ago condemning russia for allegedly violating the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries. the whole debate today is nothing but interference in russia's internal affairs, and it is also characterized by incredible anti-russian reflexes. the same parliament does nothing against countries like saudi arabia, which is even a partner of the west, where every year some people are executed because of their sexual orientation, because of this wahhabi-jihadi terror regime that reigns there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have no credibility with russia to have an anti-russian debate here. both laws - don't make fun of them - that are being discussed here have the broadest support of russian citizens! if you respect democracy, then you must also respect the consent of the russian citizens to these two laws and have respect for them. this is an internal russian matter, which the russians themselves are dealing with. the public opinion today is even more confirmed by this interference debate in its attitude to foreign interference in russian affairs. russia protects its values like family, and for that russia is even to be respected! russian citizens are not like us, they do not kneel like us before well-connected fringe groups. and that 's why you can take poison on it: russian citizens are taking today's debate very lightly. your papers and your decisions and your debates do not impress anyone in russia! so we can really let this debate pass.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the right to petition is a very important instrument of the democratic process and is enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. petitions can be submitted by our citizens if they consider that eu law is being infringed. we, as members of the committee on petitions, then review the admissibility and content of petitions received. in 2012, we received more than 1,900 petitions. this is a significant increase compared to 2011. in 2012, we spent a lot of time explaining the importance of citizenship of the union. the european citizens' initiative is the first instrument of transnational participatory democracy. i think it should be given much more support to enable our citizens to participate much more actively in european politics. this year, the european year of citizens, our committee called for measures to better inform citizens of the work of the committee so that they can better use their rights under eu law. the economic crisis has had and still has a very serious impact on the lives and rights of our citizens. it has had a massive impact on the social and political rights of our citizens, but not only in the southern countries. the economic situation has deteriorated rapidly for people, including in my own country. we had decided to hold a public hearing on the rights of union citizens and the economic crisis. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 500 of the petitions filed in 2012 concerned violations of fundamental rights. the european union and its institutions are committed to guaranteeing, protecting and promoting fundamental rights. i would like to thank the honourable member for the report, which has given a very comprehensive account of our work. i hope that we can all continue to work together for all our citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, there are still products on the european market containing cadmium: batteries, medical devices, cordless phones. cadmium is a highly toxic substance which affects and damages not only the environment but also the human body. it is therefore important to phase out these products and to find alternatives, such as lithium. but this isn't just about batteries. non-organic farms mainly use fertilisers containing cadmium. this means that this toxic substance is found in almost every food. so we need to think about how to get cadmium out of not just our appliances, but also out of our food. we must support research in this area in particular to find alternatives. and we must also promote organic products more!
in writing. the use of heavy metals such as cadmium and mercury in production has historically been of great economic importance. unfortunately, this has also had negative effects on people and the environment. in recent years, therefore, far-reaching legislative measures have been adopted to restrict the use of heavy metals. this has been successful: in my home country, austria, there is evidence of a reduction in the cadmium and mercury deposits in the ground. the revision of the directive to be adopted today is a logical consequence of developments in recent years: the placing on the market of batteries and accumulators containing cadmium was already prohibited in 2006. the existing exemption for cordless power tools is also abolished. it is important that the prohibition as of 31 december 2016 is set in such a way that the economic operators concerned have sufficient time to be able to introduce the relevant substitute technologies. i am also particularly pleased that we have taken the opportunity to repeal another outdated exception: mercury must no longer be contained in button cells. this is particularly important because button cells are often not disposed of via the special waste and are therefore particularly harmful to the environment.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that was not a point of order, but a political statement. i would ask you to take the president's statement at the beginning of the sitting seriously and to respect the rules of procedure.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. - this recommendation deals with the problematic situation in jordan, which has arisen, inter alia, as a result of the syrian conflict. the european union is in a position to improve the situation in jordan through its neighbourhood assistance, thus making a major contribution to humanitarian aid for the people on the ground. this recommendation is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. the report looks at the eu's development of a new border surveillance system, called eurosur. i would like to see a more intensive development of the eurosur solution. a knowledge-based approach to the eu's immediate sea and land borders is far more efficient and deterrent than the current patrol-based approach. this requires a systematic network of sensors through which action can be taken on the basis of direct real-time knowledge. we are, however, looking for the moment allegorically with the flashlight in the dark forest so patrol oriented and for good luck. this is not enough deterrent to the trafficking gangs and crime. a perfect system is more like it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the hope of these people to live in europe is greater than their despair. they accept almost all dangers and tortures for this vague hope. the current solution is outdated: we will not be able to prevent such boats from running out, as they are leaving ports illegally or secretly, or using remote landing sites. the destabilisation of north africa by the so-called 'arab spring' has also increased these activities in the past. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i see a sensible prospect in eurosur.
in writing. - the past week has shown in a terrible way that there is an urgent need for action to protect the lives of refugees. the restrictive immigration policies of the union and the member states are forcing people seeking protection to make increasingly risky attempts to reach europe. eurosur aims to increase the efficiency of the search forces, provide new technical methods of search and provide comprehensive information. in order to avoid tragedies like lampedusa in the future, these capabilities must be used for the search and rescue of refugees and not for the interception and return of boats that are unfit for sea duty, in violation of human rights. the way was clear for eurosur to be used to rescue refugees. provisions to protect the lives of migrants are an essential part of this directive. in the spirit of a social europe, these provisions must now be incorporated into the normal practice of the emergency services in order to guarantee the humane treatment of refugees.
in writing. - cadmium has been criticised for years as a metal extremely toxic to the human body. the use of this metal is not only harmful to man but also to the environment. health and environmental protection are very important to me; i therefore voted in favour of this important directive, even though the ultimate aim must be an absolute ban on the use of cadmium. the commission has also proposed a ban on the use of pesticides in other applications, such as fertilisers. nevertheless, i am sure that the adopted directive will make an important contribution to a healthier and more environmentally conscious europe.
in writing. the aim of this report is to protect the interests of consumers and businesses, while at the same time protecting the environment and human health. in parallel, more time would be available for technical developments, exchange of best practice, learning processes and innovation in this field.
in writing. − the protection of privacy, fundamental and human rights and the protection of individuals from the arbitrariness of intelligence services must be central to union policy. at increasingly frequent intervals, evidence is emerging that us intelligence agencies are taking measures within the eu that run counter to the principles of the european union. in addition to the reports on secret prisons, it has become known that the privacy of eu citizens is threatened by us intelligence surveillance programmes. the refusal of some member states to launch comprehensive investigations is particularly outrageous and undermines the union's united and credible position as a community of states which respects and defends the principles of democracy. the council and the commission have not been able to make the necessary concessions on this sensitive subject. the lack of information and willingness to act has been demonstrated once again by: in order to be able to deal credibly with violations of fundamental and human rights in the future, parliament should be given full powers to investigate violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. − caste discrimination is an issue that urgently needs to be addressed and analysed in the european union's programmes and strategies; the european union has a duty to help the victims of human rights violations, and the european external action service in particular can do much to combat such violations. everyone must have equal access to justice and the labour market and the right to lead a dignified life; the commission has also proposed that special attention be paid to victims of multiple discrimination who suffer particularly from their situation.
in writing. − the diversity of concerns addressed by the petition grant over the past years makes it clear that there is still a lot of work to be done in many different areas. we welcome some partial successes (such as the spanish coastal law) but at the same time we are aware that many challenges still await us in this legislative period, which is coming to an end. the report provides a comprehensive overview of the wide range of petitions dealt with by the competition committee. the increase in petitions compared to the previous year shows the importance of citizens' participation in european politics, but also that they are increasingly informed about their fundamental rights.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the recent cases of violence against and persecution of christians, in particular in maaloula (syria) and peshawar (pakistan) and the case of pastor saeed abedini (iran). see minutes of the sitting.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the unrest in sudan and subsequent media censorship.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sudan is experiencing the worst unrest since president al-bashir took power in a military coup in 1989. the protests were triggered by the increase in gasoline prices. over 120 people are reported dead. and the coverage of it was blocked, five newspapers were banned indefinitely. independent reports of protesters' deaths were removed by the censorship agency and replaced with pro-government articles. the eu must also act as a mediator in the conflict with south sudan to prevent further escalation. sudan lost most of its oil reserves to south sudan, but the transport and export facilities remain in sudan. but both countries are economically dependent on the oil business, and the dispute over the amount of pipeline fees ultimately brought both countries to the brink of financial ruin.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the recent wave of violence in iraq.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. honestly, are we still listening to the news about the attacks in iraq? or have they become as commonplace as the weather report? that's what's shocking about her, her normality. it is only by looking at the monthly and annual figures that we can fully appreciate the scale of the problem: almost 1,000 victims in september, about 5,000 in 2013 so far. we in this house would do well to learn from the causes of violence rather than to produce banal condemnations. unthinking military intervention, wherever it may be, can destabilise regions so permanently that total chaos ensues. the decision to engage in military action must be made with much greater consideration of the possible consequences. and by that i don't just mean the price of oil. let us learn from this for the future, because we cannot afford any more so-called us victories against rogue states!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to send a message in advance that the epp is clearly committed to climate protection. we are now negotiating this resolution on cop19. so we've had 18 conferences already. we should learn from our experiences. these climate conferences have a special dynamic and they deal with a subject which has a special significance for all mankind. the european union has indeed successfully concluded some of these international negotiations - the montreal protocol, for example. we are talking about a very special dimension here. however, we should be very careful about words like 'success' and 'no success' that are very often given to individual climate conferences. the key is that we as europe too take up our historic role and lead by example. that's very clear. but we have to start thinking about what is and is not a success. if we look at the big competitors around the world, like the united states and china, we see that they're making great progress in reducing carbon emissions without having such a climate agreement. it is therefore also worthwhile to consider how we can put our european economy on this path: as much energy efficiency as possible, as much renewable energy as possible and as much co2 savings as possible. accordingly, we should also assess how we can achieve a framework in 2015 that is attractive to all parties and committed to the 2°c target. that is the central task we must face here. bas, when you say we're getting there with the ehs, that's great. then what's the problem? but raising the cost to the companies is the wrong approach. the fact is that the united states has now saved 200 million tons without having a climate agreement. innovative approaches, including at these climate conferences, are key to success here as well. this resolution also contributes to this. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i think that with the ehs and the co2 price, we're not going to get the investments that you or i want. because when you talk to specialists, they say we need 50, 60, 70 euros per ton. it's not realistic. i think with the three goals that we have now, and as we hope to have in the future, we will get those goals, so that means higher energy efficiency and also a lot more renewable energy. i firmly believe that we need to drive these changes in the energy system. only with an ets, with a huge carbon price, you're not going to get that because it's too one-sided. that's the problem.
i have to say, madam president, the basic strategic objectives of eu climate policy are quite decent and, to a large extent, sincere. the tactics used are inadequate. a new climate study proves what we've been seeing around the world for years: human action is based mainly on short-term incentives, and vague prospects for the benefit of future generations are not sufficient motivation. so we have to re-align our tactics. we need immediate and short-term incentives to get citizens and businesses to rethink their thinking. in this context, climate-friendly technology and basic financial incentives for its development, use and export should be given greater prominence. so material gain here and now can also be a major catalyst for climate change.
blue-card question. – mr brons, i would like to ask you something. if i understood you correctly – and i am not absolutely sure whether i did – then i think that you said that you are not really happy with anything in the wto system. could you please tell me: what would be your alternative?
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it was the treaty of lisbon that led to the democratization and parliamentarisation of the european union's trade policy. the european parliament has only been able to take part in the decisionmaking process on trade policy since the treaty of lisbon, and that is a good thing. it has changed the trade policy of the european union, and now we must make it not only different but more efficient. and i think that mr rinaldi's report is a step in the right direction. when our partners are unfair to us, we need to be able to respond. we must then be able to react efficiently and quickly so that europe can protect the interests of the european economy and, ultimately, the interests of the people of the european union. i think that this report, mr president, can achieve that and i think we are on the right track. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what are your chances of getting an agreement in indonesia for the wto negotiations?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'd like to answer that, but i'm having a hard time. indonesia will probably be one of the last chances to take a step forward in the multilateral system. if we fail to do so in indonesia, we will probably have to go through bilateral agreements for a long time. i would personally prefer a multilateral system in the end.
i have to say, madam president, the european union can only really benefit from trade agreements and wto membership if trade partners also respect the rules agreed. it should be possible to react quickly and efficiently to illegal trade policy measures. only in this way can the interests of european businesses, workers and consumers be effectively protected. the proposed legal framework allows the commission to take enforcement action when the interests of the union are at stake. the ultimate objective must be to impose trade sanctions and to urge the country concerned to withdraw illegal measures such as the introduction of duties, the increase of duties or import and export quotas. the european union's threats will be more credible and ultimately more effective once it is possible to take effective action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to pick up where mr scholz left off. i think that this association agreement with ukraine should be signed. ukraine has made progress in the fight against corruption and has also made progress in the area of the rule of law. the tymoshenko case will also be solved. this should be recognized and this association agreement should be signed at the vilnius summit. we cannot continue to complain that russia's influence is growing in these countries if we do not act in their favour. then this whining won't do any good. finally, we should also put an end to the rhetoric of conflict which is also being used in this house against russia. we must try to see russia more as a partner than as a conflict and competition in this world. i am therefore absolutely in favour of concluding this association agreement with ukraine. it is also a warning example in relation to armenia. if relations between the european union and armenia are constantly fixed on the conflict case of nagorno-karabakh or the republic of artsakh, with exaggerated regard for azerbaijan, then it should not be surprising if armenia ends up in the eurasian customs union. we must therefore consider whether our policy towards these countries and towards russia should not be reconsidered, and therefore we must refrain from speaking to russia and take a stronger approach to these countries, particularly in the specific case of ukraine and armenia. finally, i repeat again and again in connection with armenia the moral guilt of europe, and that two years before the centenary of the genocide of the armenian people, europe has a historical and moral debt to pay, particularly to armenia and the armenians of nagosny karabakh.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are now working in the european parliament, also together with commissioner šefčovič, on the reform of the transparency register. that is also urgently needed. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. let me make a few brief remarks on this. firstly, many companies that lobby in brussels still do not register in the transparency register. one reason for this is that we do not provide enough incentives. so my question is: why don't we just ban these companies from participating in these expert groups in the european commission? why are these companies still allowed to participate in the intergroups? why are members of parliament and officials of the european commission allowed to continue to meet with these companies? the second problem is the law firms. the law firms are pushing the lobbying market like crazy. behind these law firms, corporations hide their activities. these law firms should really be forced to disclose their activities and, above all, their clients, if they are really lobbying organizations.
mr president, i conscientiously object to allowing women to be hurt or killed because of lack of access to safe abortion, be it in ireland (as just happened a couple of months ago) or in other parts of the world outside europe, where this happens every day. i conscientiously object to that, and i would like to thank mrs estrela and all the other shadow rapporteurs for a very good report. to all those who talk against sexual and reproductive health and rights, i would say: this is not something new. we talked about it in 1979, when the convention against all kinds of discrimination against women became law. we talked about it in cairo at the population and development conference, a platform of action which says that women have the right to decide freely the number, spacing and time in their lives when they want to give birth to children. and in beijing, sexual rights were decided and determined: it is about sexuality free from violence and discrimination. so i hope we will keep ... (the chair cut off the speaker).
blue-card question. – two things: firstly i would ask you to take back your comment defining lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people – lesbian people like me – as being abnormal. that should not be said in this parliament. secondly, i would like to ask you whether you have ever had sex without the aim of procreation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs once again. i think that the compromise we have now is really acceptable. there may be a few details that could be changed, but in principle, we've agreed that patient safety is paramount. the approaches may differ slightly from one group to another, but i think that what we have chosen here really makes sense in practice. and if you compare the european system with the american system, the european system has the huge advantage that we don't have a cumbersome, centralized system, but one that is regionalized. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the history really shows that central agencies have the same error rate as regional agencies. if we look at the european system, we also find that on average, medical devices in europe are on the market 43 months earlier than in the united states. and safety is the key for the patients, and in that sense, health, because the sooner i get products out there, the better it is for the patients. of course, i have to make sure that mistakes are prevented. unannounced inspections, implant passports and so on are included. but overall, the great advantage of the european system is its flexibility. and we must preserve this flexibility, and i think we must continue to refine it here. as i said, jobs don't justify everything. that's very clear. but it is also a fact that this is a very innovative sector. this is a hundred billion dollar market, and it's a lot of people working in this market, and there are tens of thousands of patent applications coming out of this sector every year. this is 7% of all patent applications. we must also use this competitive advantage for patients in europe. i think that the compromise is workable and, as i said, a clear commitment against any centralism here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a staunch pro-european, i have only 60 seconds to read the leviticus to you. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have tabled 82 amendments in the committee on budgets, starting with the end of subsidies to the luxury supplementary pension fund for members of the european parliament, which has been the subject of speculation by many of our colleagues. it is their risk, not that of the european taxpayer! millions can be saved on furniture, billions can be saved on things like the iter fusion reactor. all 82 applications were simply rejected. i have received your approval only once, for the construction of the offices, for the european parliament, 25.9 million for the coming year alone. i proposed a cut in half; 500 000 euros have been approved as savings. do you really not realise that by this policy of not saving, of not understanding the electorate, you are enticing the wrong people en masse and that by hiding behind this wasteful addiction you are making yourself exactly one of those who are promoting renationalisation and right-wing radicalism in europe?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make a long story very short. in the meantime, i don't think any of us can believe that we really only knew about the possibility of default this weekend. i would remind you of the so-called deal of last december, and by the time the developments in the spring had taken place, we should all have been clear about what could happen and what we are really facing. i wonder when our finance ministers will understand that while it is very good to say yes to the various programmes, i must also be able to pay. i can't make a commitment today, and tomorrow i'll forget my payment obligations. it seems that number is really becoming a foreign word. i would like to make a brief comment on a very important point: the continuing crisis. the problems of youth unemployment remain unresolved. many citizens are realizing that nothing is happening here, and in this context i can call for increased investment in the promotion of education and investment in smes, research and innovation. i would also like to thank our two rapporteurs.
madam president, this issue is clear, and mr fox confirmed your ruling. we have already voted on amendment 1 and, according to the ruling, a referral back to committee has to be requested before the vote. we have already started voting, so have to continue with the votes. (loud heckling from the floor)
in writing. - in order to avoid discrimination against one economic partner, it is appropriate to create a level playing field for all parties involved in the import of wine from the western balkan countries by allocating a single tariff quota for wine from kosovo.
in writing. − the safety and accuracy of in vitro diagnostics must be guaranteed, and increased control to prevent the use of substandard tests is therefore highly desirable, especially with regard to the correct diagnosis of diseases. the concept of informed consent in clinical trials should not be watered down, but should continue to serve the purpose of patient protection. i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. − the safety of medical devices must be fully guaranteed, especially in the context of clinical trials. the transparency and scientific expertise of the procedures chosen are fundamental. patient safety and public health must be considered and taken into account in any new regulation and should be the basis of all decisions.
in writing. - the commission's proposal to reduce the negative impact of ship recycling without creating an unnecessary economic burden is welcomed. in particular, the recycling of ships under european flags should not be a burden on the environment or the economy. regular checks and inspections should also ensure compliance with the recycling guidelines.
in writing. − common rules for the population census: the proposed regulation aims to create a common framework for statistics on the demography of the european union by collecting, compiling, processing and transmitting uniform data on the population and life events by the member states both for union purposes and for the calculation of the qualified majority. this regulation was an important step towards a uniform framework. i should like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his work.
in writing. − given that the qualified majority in the council is directed at the eu population as a whole, high-quality demographic data are certainly important. time series on age ratios, fertility rates and life expectancy in the eu are used for a number of policy decisions. traditionally, however, there are differences in the way statistics are collected from one country to another, which are quite justified. that is why i abstained in this report.
in writing. − the european union is committed to responding quickly and precisely to demographic challenges; the basis for this is the regular collection of statistical data (which, of course, must be clearly based on the protection of personal data). this can be used to develop policy concepts for specific situations, taking account of developments in the member states.
in writing. − i see it as a social obligation not to pass this report by in this form, but to refer it back to the committee so that it can be thoroughly reviewed, debated and corrected on those aspects which go far beyond not only the reproductive rights of individuals but also the competences of the eu. i shall abstain on amendment no 1 on the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by the group of the european people's party for the following reasons: political dimension: one has to ask the question of the external impact of party politics when the largest group in parliament, the epp, restricts its own freedom of action by supporting one of the smallest and most controversial groups. content dimension: the edf resolution focuses exclusively on the prenatal and postnatal dimension of women's health. women who are neither pregnant nor mothers are not covered in the resolution in terms of health. the efd resolution makes no reference to contraceptive methods and means. it thus gives the impression that contraceptives are not worth mentioning and/or useful per se. the epp therefore recommended that the edf resolution be rejected. i have personally decided to abstain in order to find a compromise with my general discomfort about the original estrela report.
in writing. − this resolution represents the european union's politically correct regulatory mania and illustrates once again the eu's desire to intervene in all areas of people's lives. the eu has no powers under current law to legislate in this area at all. abortion, and this is veiled in the report with 'reproductive health', clearly falls within the competence of the nation states. it was the eu itself which made this point explicitly clear again in the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty. i guess things are different today. you bend the law the way you need it. the estrela report is intended to downplay and force abortion. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of health surveillance and surveillance of pregnant women. we reject this view, which equates abortion with the use of contraceptives, and we reject it outright. the report also calls for the promotion of the abortion industry, the obligation of hospitals to perform these abortions, the right of lesbians to artificial insemination and subsequent abortion, and mandatory sex education in the member states, including affirmative action on trans and homosexuality. i therefore rejected this report in a very strong manner.
in writing. - the sahel is a highly inhospitable area. the lack of water is one of the biggest problems, you can't have livestock. added to this is the security problem of unstable governments and terrorist attacks. the continuous flow of refugees also contributes to the tense situation. the situation of girls and women is of course particularly dangerous. we can denounce human rights violations, but as long as we do not manage to tackle a number of problems, such as crime, arms and human trafficking and drug smuggling, and as long as there is no political will on the ground to achieve greater stability, the overall situation will not change. the fact that military intervention is only partially effective in bringing about change has been demonstrated. i cannot therefore give my full support to this resolution.
in writing. − the european union's commitment to human rights in the sahel region is very welcome, particularly with regard to the protection of women and children from crime and violence. the major challenges in this area are all the more reason to work at all levels to improve the status quo.
in writing. − the resolution states that it wants to establish a new framework for eu cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities. experience has shown that such formulations are used at eu level to achieve the opposite. the eu is suspected of wanting to increase its local influence, as its regional or local influence is so far limited. this is in line with the eu's objective of weakening the power of action of the nation states as much as possible, on the one hand by the powers of the eu itself, on the other by strengthening local and regional authorities. the state is to be brought to heel. the report underlines this by the openly stated remark that its purpose is to promote national decentralisation. this is obviously the case whether the member state concerned wishes it or not. the report was clearly to be rejected, since the libertarians are in favour of a strong nation state within the eu.
in writing. − promoting civil society to put citizens at the centre of development cooperation. the main objective is to involve marginalised groups effectively and actively. the present report is therefore to be regarded as positive.
in writing. - europe needs to modernise its education systems now. in a rapidly changing world, education must lead to employment. the european parliament today calls for a stronger focus on employability in eu member states' education policies. we also call for new methods of teaching and learning and for new approaches to funding educational institutions. investment in education and training is crucial to increasing competitiveness. europe can only increase growth and productivity if it has a skilled workforce. the fact that there are more than two million jobs in europe despite unemployment shows that our education systems often fail to equip people with the right skills. the world is increasingly competitive in the field of highly qualified workers. the days of europe competing mainly with countries with low-skilled labour are over. europe must respond to this. studies by the organisation for economic cooperation and development show that by 2020, the proportion of jobs requiring higher qualifications will increase by 20 percent. to meet this demand, not only do we need to raise educational standards and performance levels, but we also need to increase the provision of cross-cutting skills. we must now empower young people to successfully adapt to the permanent changes in the labour market during their careers.
in writing. − to improve the qualifications of educational institutions, the skills of pupils and students, and the skills of teachers, in order to cope with the threat of unemployment, the eu is seeking to develop new approaches to education in the individual member states. the basic aim is to achieve uniformity under a european standard, and this, if possible, at an economically oriented level, with the member states having to provide the funds for such an educational reform. i voted against this proposal not only because i am against such a unification of education in europe, but also because i think that it is the wrong way to solve the problem of european unemployment, which, according to the report, is based purely on corporate interests, with a further reform of education (after bologna).
in writing. - the successes of the european education system over the last 250 years have been based in particular on the evolution of successful systems. this means that those systems which had proved most successful were adopted by other states. this approach is based on the fact that there were no centralised guidelines from a planning department in brussels. while it is welcome that there is some exchange of such good practice through a central body, pisa and co. are enough incentives for member states to reflect on their current situation and to make improvements where necessary. such improvements should then be based on good copying or the principle of invention and evolution mentioned above. the report, on the other hand, seeks to increase regional influence through the use of brussels guidelines, by allowing the ministries of culture to be given certain guidelines in the field of education and curriculum. this is absurd in the light of the points raised so far. not only are people not getting any smarter, it's undermining the evolutionary idea of successful system exchange. we have already seen through the bologna process the problems that have resulted from standardised university-level guidelines. i therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − as corruption is a major challenge in some candidate and potential candidate countries, especially in the balkan region, the eu wants to support those countries in the fight against corruption through projects and financial resources. in particular, the judiciary should be strengthened and adapted to the european judicial system, which would not only increase the chances of success in tackling corruption, but also significantly facilitate the future accession of the candidate countries. it is because of these measures and the firm conviction that corruption is a fundamental evil not only outside but also in the eu, and because we should lead by example here, that i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − this report focuses on the approaches and the sustainable prevention of corruption. in parallel, some of the shortcomings that need to be addressed in the future are reported. to this end, specific solutions and regional approaches are proposed. the prevention of these abuses also involves communicating to the applicant countries and potential applicants, through the administration and the controlled and targeted use of referral facilities, the objectives to be achieved within the framework of the european union. these objectives and the sustainability of the report make it a positive report.
in writing. − hospitalization can easily become a risk if elderly and immunocompromised people contract therapy-associated infections. the emergence of antibiotic resistance is also a particular danger. many of these infections are preventable. patient safety has to come first. and in this respect, there is still a lot to be done. the trend towards outsourcing is also a cause for concern. for example, when cleaning services are outsourced, it must be ensured that this is not at the expense of clinical hygiene. i have in any case agreed to this report as a step towards greater patient safety.
in writing. − this resolution states that the safety and well-being of patients should be improved. european citizens have a right to a high-quality health system and to high-quality health care. the health of european citizens should be the subject of every effort. i also believe that only a safe health system can strengthen the confidence of citizens. the issue of patient safety in health systems is not only a european issue but a global one, and is becoming an increasingly important factor. the main contribution of patient safety management is to improve quality of life. in the economic crisis, treatment-associated infections are a particular burden on society. the introduction of patient safety therefore not only benefits the patient but also brings financial savings to the health sector. that is why i am in favour of improving health systems and of making more efficient use of financial resources. i also support the establishment and development of national strategies, programmes on patient safety, the development of health research and development and the promotion of workforce training and development. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the implementation of the council recommendation on patient safety (including prevention and control of therapy-associated infections) is a key issue and must be followed up. in particular, action is needed to prevent and reduce avoidable medical errors. improving patient safety is very welcome.
in writing. - the commission is using a variety of tricks to try to get money out of the pockets of citizens and companies. it involves the unintentional conclusion of contracts, even though one is supposed to agree to only one entry in an address database, and the very brazen charging of services that were never provided. and the rapporteur rightly points out that there is still a lot of work to be done. for example, modern technologies, in particular the internet and smartphones, open up a whole range of fraud opportunities which require consistent and uniform action across the eu. it is important that this report takes a step forward. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - misleading marketing practices are tricks used by some companies to obtain contracts for a fee under an apparently different pretext. for example, companies or citizens unknowingly enter into a contract by mistake and suddenly face high costs, without even knowing that they had entered into a contract. austria already has some rules prohibiting certain misleading marketing practices. the report expressly welcomes the commission's initiative to combat such practices by providing clear contractual references. the report also calls for further action in the areas of prevention, education, enforcement and prosecution of misleading marketing practices and in the context of international cooperation. as such marketing practices are not yet legally, but in any case morally, considered fraudulent in some member states, i welcome the commission's legislative initiative and the proposals in the report. such events must be prevented. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a coherent legal framework also requires a unified management body for a decisive success. the current role of the eu anti-fraud office should therefore be reviewed. a sensible and thoughtful reorientation of its powers and coordination capabilities can help it to achieve a similarly successful position to that already enjoyed by the eu antitrust authority. i also share the view of the report that we should not under any circumstances disproportionately restrict basic civil rights in the fight against corruption. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. it cannot be that there are no external and internal control mechanisms. billions of taxpayers' money are likely to disappear into the swamp of corruption, and i can only guess what part we are actually helping to finance, and that seems to me to be bad enough.
the commission has already done so. the rapporteur, mr salvatore iacolino, has presented a catalogue of demands, 50 pages long, containing a wealth of very specific measures to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i congratulate you on that. i would like to highlight just a few that i think are particularly important. firstly, in the context of combating trafficking in human beings, it should be possible to criminalize the use of services provided by victims of trafficking in human beings and, in addition, to intensify the fight against forced labour, which is usually linked to trafficking in human beings. secondly, in order to combat corruption, it should be possible to exclude from participation in public tenders those companies which have already been convicted of money laundering, participation in a criminal association or corruption. thirdly, in the interests of clean rather than corrupt sport, betting manipulation should be re-introduced as a criminal offence. fourthly, cooperation at sea should be stepped up, also in the fight against trafficking in human beings, drug smuggling and so on. fifthly, although we have international cooperation, we should work on a european programme to detect the financing of terrorism. in conclusion, i hope that the proposals which have been put forward will be incorporated into the work of the commission. i think we'll find the commissioner's ears are open. i would also like the member states to support all the demands we have made with concrete actions, measures and decisions. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr pirker. you will probably agree with me that when this parliament is concerned with fighting organised crime, it must also ensure that members of this parliament are not suspected of having committed a misuse of funds. i therefore ask you, as the representative of the party which represents the minister of justice in austria, when the case will finally be brought against mr hans-peter martin, who has already been ordered by the european court of justice to repay part of his money and who is suspected of having abused funds following an extradition request which was also approved by this parliament. when will this procedure finally be carried out?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not the decision on this is not taken here in the european parliament and at european level. there is no doubt that corruption or crime must be fought everywhere, whether or not one is a member of the european parliament. but when someone is a member of the european parliament, as in this case, i think it is all the more necessary that such proceedings be concluded quickly. i would like the austrian judiciary to reach a decision very quickly in this case and to pass a judgment on this case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return to this dispute between mrs hohlmeier and mr zijlstra. it is true, of course, that the removal of frontiers is also in the interests of citizens. but it's also true that he's also in the interest of organized crime. so both are correct. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the enormous sums of damage which mr iacolino has already mentioned, and the enormous human suffering which he has described, need not be repeated here. the figures are all there, everything is there in the report. but all this means that the european union could prove that it is actually taking action in a field where it has competence and where it should actually act. so if you want to gain credibility with the public, organised crime in europe is a rich field of activity. i would warn anyone who wants to take action against organised crime against getting turkey in the way. it is true that turkish gangs are responsible for a considerable part of organized crime in the federal republic of germany and austria, for example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if our anti-corruption agency were to take months to confirm the receipt of a report on suspicion of corruption after multiple inquiries, something could go wrong. of course, there could be a system behind it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. as a major german daily reported a few days ago, the total amount of corruption cases allegedly settled by the greek finance official and former financial controller boutos is said to be at least 6 million euros, and 75% of it is said to have been paid by the eu. why is it any wonder that people get upset that we're pumping billions into greek banks? it is a mockery of hardworking citizens when well-founded suspicions are left unanswered because olaf is supposedly fully occupied with a major reorganisation. i believe that olaf should investigate any suspicion immediately and that the eu should ensure that the eu's millions wrongly spent are actually recovered. that's for sure.
mr president, minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner reding put it very well a few years ago, when the e-justice portal was introduced. de facto, deferred law is repealed law. the creation of the portal in 2010 was a milestone in cross-border e-law. the commission is now required to maintain the roadmap and to present an action plan for 2014-2018 as a matter of urgency. the mutual recognition of administrative acts and judgments is one of the main principles of the european legal system. the need for urgent action is also shown by the reports recently adopted, such as my own on the strengthening of the rights of workers in the brussels i regulation. there are still many obstacles to citizens, but also to businesses, exercising the right to free movement. in this respect, it is particularly important to use modern technology to facilitate access to justice and thus to strengthen confidence in the european legal system. and trust is something we cannot have enough of in these times of doubt on the part of many european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the intelligent use of electronic technology is certainly a means of saving costs, especially in the case of small claims, and this is not limited to crossborder transactions. the new e-justice portal is also welcome, and it could certainly provide a great deal of information. it may be true that e-government could lead to more efficiency, and to some extent it may also lead to more citizen services, but only as long as people are not forced to do so. the cost is then simply passed on to the recipient. i am thinking of the telephone bills, for which postal deliveries are now charged extra by all my customers in austria. this is not the direction e-government and e-justice should take, especially since the older generation has little experience with the new media. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. regardless of the amount of campaign polemics you hear out here, it's obvious that there are different views. some member states report enormous problems, in part due to 1 to 5% immigration with high costs for schooling, health care and accommodation, meaning immigrants who do not provide any work. this 1 to 5% increase is all the more dramatic if you are in berlin with a 40% increase or in munich with a 60% increase. but on the other hand there are positions like the commission's and mine which do not even recognize such problems by certain procedures. we have no problems of this kind in austria, a country which has joined the criticism. we have always heard that they are romanians, bulgarians and roma, but in my country we have no problems with this. in other regions, it is very good! and that's why we have to acknowledge the two points of view. there are 60% of immigrants who are skilled and pay benefits, and 80% who also have work. but it is also faced by people without education and without vocational training, who have no chance of entering the labour market. i ask the commission to resolve this matter very quickly with the member states concerned in a dialogue on problem solving.
madam president, the european neighbourhood policy is a very good initiative and should get us moving and enjoying success. more for more, less for less. but what i am seeing in some countries is that this policy is in danger of failing, partly – but not solely – because some political party affiliations seem to count for more than reality. i am referring specifically to georgia, and i would like to raise the issue here in this parliament. i have the impression that some members – colleagues here from the european people’s party – look at the divide in georgia in terms of ‘our political allies are the friends, and the others are the bad ones’. colleagues, things are not that simple. please do not be blind to the problems that existed during the saakashvili government and also with people like ex-minister of the interior merabishvili. i am also critical of him being in pre-trial detention now. however, there were problems when he was minister of the interior. it has become public that there were video recordings of opposition members – critics – that were used to blackmail people while he was minister of the interior. this has to be investigated. do not turn a blind eye to people who are your political family and friends. i think that, as the european parliament, we have to be credible everywhere. we have to look at improving the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. we have to investigate and look at violations of human rights and the abuse of public finances for party election objectives. on the subject of elections, my last word is that we also have to look into how credible our short-term election observation missions are. recently in azerbaijan, the european parliament’s short-term election observation mission said that everything was free, fair and transparent, whereas the long-term osce and odihr observers were very clear that that was not the case. we shall have to look into how our short-term observations work. i hope that the same thing will not happen in the elections and election observations taking place soon in the parliament in georgia.
in writing. the european union's neighbourhood policy aims to stabilise and bring neighbouring countries closer together. it is intended to enhance the value of europe's peripheries, but unfortunately it is very often marginal in nature. at least as far as their financial resources are concerned. the agreement to a higher allocation is often seen in the context of potential accession. as this process is largely completed, the dynamic seems to have largely died down. in addition, the relationships in the countries concerned - the arc extends from morocco to belarus - are extremely diverse and heterogeneous. a coherent policy approach therefore seems difficult, if not impossible. the sometimes explosive emergence of revolutionary changes, for example in connection with the arab spring, the collapse of centuries-old social structures such as in syria, an epoch-making middle east conflict that has repeatedly made all efforts at stabilisation impossible, or the increasingly open emergence of russia's hegemonic interests are hardly manageable variables. these difficulties should not, however, lead the eu to inactivity. on the contrary, it is precisely this that should lead to a stronger strengthening of the union's neighbourhood policy.
in writing. in may this year, the european parliament and the council agreed on an ambitious reform of the european fisheries policy. it is now up to us to support these objectives in the best possible way within the framework of the european maritime and fisheries fund. it is estimated that up to 80% of eu subsidies for fleet adaptation have been used inefficiently or even counterproductively in the past: most eu funds have not contributed to reducing shipping capacity or increasing the profitability of ships. in addition, only around 18% of the eu's fish stocks are currently fished sustainably. the emff funds, which are european taxpayers' money, must be used wisely and in line with the priorities of the common fisheries policy. this means, above all, that no subsidies are to be granted which lead to overcapacity of fleets. i therefore oppose subsidies for the construction of new ships and the promotion of the replacement of marine engines. the emff must become an instrument to promote sustainable fish stocks and thus provide european fishermen with a long-term livelihood and career prospects!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr cohn-bendit is right. the council is behaving irresponsibly. and if we were to act as the council did, we would have to act as daniel cohn-bendit said. but, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to the citizens to ensure that the commission can function. and as much as i'm sorry, we really need to get this decision made. my group is in favour of putting this on the agenda. but, madam president, i want to say this right now: our group also supports the idea that we should be able to explain the situation on thursday before we take a decision. the council's attitude in the mff negotiations is unacceptable, that it is not prepared to compromise. but we want to show the citizens and europe that this parliament is more responsible than the council. we must set a good example!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we will come back to that. they were strong words, but where are the actions? but i will say some words about that later. the commission president spoke about a broad agenda, but i have looked at the conclusions and they are very empty for the council. i do not know if the council will take the chance to go forward to what we would call a progressive economy in europe. yes, we need more innovation, more digital economy. why, then, has the council cut the budget, for example, for broadband? it was not a large sum proposed by the commission, but it was an important sum. the council said that we do not need it, but some weeks later they come up with some enormous words about the digital economy. but let this be very clear, also in conclusion, and in combination with data protection. the digital economy – and i am very happy about the vote on monday, although some elements could have been given broader support – is one side of it for us, and data protection is the other side. it is a complement which is absolutely necessary. but let me also be very clear on this: the digital economy is not only something for the upper echelons of society, it is for everybody. i was recently in košice in the far east of slovakia, and i saw how in the schools – remember, with the support of the european social fund – many of the children, including the roma children about whose integration or non-integration we are always complaining, were integrated into society and into the digital economy thanks to european money, european support and the european social fund. that is what we expect from a progressive economic policy in the european union: to have an enhancement of the economy, of business, of start-ups, but at the same time, integration of those people who need to be integrated into society. therefore, the european social fund is important, and we are still fighting for 25 % of the european social fund from the regional fund. this is an important aim for us. ich möchte zurückkommen und in deutscher sprache über deutschland reden. kollege daul ist jetzt abgelenkt. vielleicht war es ein freudscher fehler, aber er ist immer wieder gekommen. sie haben immer nur von männern gesprochen, mit denen sie reden. da gibt es eine frau, mit der sie reden sollten: frau merkel, die nämlich sehr bestimmt, was hier auf der europäischen ebene in vielen fällen geschieht! zum beispiel – was nicht nur die frage der budgetpolitik betrifft – die ganze grundkonzeption, die frau merkel hat. europa ist zum strafen derjenigen da, die zum beispiel ihre finanziellen ziele verfehlen. oder zum beispiel der kampf und die diskussion, die wir führen, gerade auch mit frau merkel, was die frage der sogenannten makroökonomischen konditionalität betrifft, dass regionen bestraft werden sollen, wenn regierungen sich nicht an die regeln halten, die frau merkel entworfen hat. das ist, was wir als ungerecht empfinden! wir wollen den regionen helfen, nicht sie bestrafen! das ist die politik, die wir betreiben sollen. (beifall)frau merkel gebraucht ja immer wieder das modell der schwäbischen hausfrau. das ist ja nett, und eine schwäbische hausfrau kann sehr innovativ sein. aber wenn wir eine innovationspolitik betreiben wollen, wie das jetzt auch im rat geschehen soll, dann ist das nicht genug. wir brauchen investitionen! auch deutschland braucht investitionen. sehen wir uns doch die infrastruktur in deutschland an! selbst im reichen deutschland ist die in vielen fällen nicht mehr in ordnung. daher brauchen wir investitionen, daher müssen wir eine offensive politik betreiben. das ist notwendig, und das erwarten wir von deutschland. und ich hoffe, dass wir das auch bekommen, weil ja jetzt koalitionsverhandlungen stattfinden. nicht alle sind begeistert von einer zukünftigen großen koalition in deutschland. ich glaube aber, dass es wichtig wäre und eine chance ist, in europa durch deutschland eine andere politik zu bekommen, auch eine soziale politik. denn die soziale dimension ist für uns ganz entscheidend in diesem europa. es geht nicht nur um die ökonomie, und es geht nicht nur um die effizienz der wirtschaft, sondern es geht auch um die beschäftigungskraft der wirtschaft. wir brauchen mehr jobs. wir können diese arbeitslosigkeit nicht tolerieren! let me come back to the third chapter which is, i think, the most cynical and the most devastating one. a small paragraph in the conclusions – i do not know whether you have seen it – on migration and asylum policy. the first sentence reads: ‘the european council expresses its deep sadness about the recent tragic accidents in the mediterranean’. what is the conclusion? in one year’s time, in june 2014, we will come back to this issue. this is a conclusion of the council. this is the orientation and the speediness of the council’s work. hundreds of people die in the mediterranean – nearly every day there is an accident – but in june 2014 we will come with some ideas! (applause) this is not acceptable. what is also not acceptable, for example, is how it is being discussed in britain by the government and even further by ukip: ‘migration is a bad thing, internal migration from romania and bulgaria is also a bad thing’. you cannot say: ‘come to our country, contribute to our economy, to our growth, to our wealth’ but then if a small percentage of these people want benefits perhaps: ‘go home, we are not for you’. this is not solidarity in the european union. migration in the european union – labour migration – is a right, a freedom. it should not be forced, but it is a freedom. this policy and this tendency in europe to say that migration is always bad – migrants from outside can also contribute. you know perfectly well how many people from outside the european union, in great britain and many other countries, have contributed to the wealth of our countries. so let us have a sensible migration policy. let us open the strategy for legal migration in order to combat illegal migration. let us give these migrants a chance, let us give them an education – for temporary migrants too, from syria, for example. let us not just say ‘ok, we want to do something’, because the burden always lies with countries like jordan, turkey, lebanon and others. let us give them training and education too, so that they can go back and do something in their own country. once again, i think migration should not always be seen as a burden; it is also an opportunity. in any case, to have hundreds and hundreds of people dying until june 2014, and to come back only in june 2014 on migration, is shameful. this is shameful for europe and shameful for the european council.
ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to be more careful with your speaking time, because we are way past it. everything we've covered now, i have to save at catch-the-eye, so i'm telling you right now that i can give the floor to a maximum of five people at catch-the-eye. if the time is to be overdrawn any further, i'll have to paint catch-the-eye.
i do not really want to deal with your last remark in the spirit of the resolutions. this has been discussed at length at the beginning of today's debate and will be discussed again tomorrow in the debate before we make any clarifications. the decision status and procedure are known. that could have been dealt with a long time ago. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs elisa ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2013 (2013/2134(ini)) (a7-0322/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 28 october 2013, following this debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the commission is not the budgetary balance cannot be achieved by unilateral austerity measures! the report by my colleague elisa ferreira contains many good proposals and shows that austerity is a dead end and not a way out of the crisis. the commitment to a stronger, more social european union is demonstrated by concrete actions! the eu summit in june last year adopted the growth and jobs pact, with a total volume of €120 billion. of that 120 billion, however, only a fraction has been spent on growth and employment. if we want to prevent social division in the eu, we need concrete and rapidly implementable investment measures! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the role of the social partners must not be undermined, either in the context of the european semester or in future bodies. the only way to ensure a more in-depth economic policy is to increase democracy and solidarity. i am referring to the involvement and control of the european parliament, the national parliaments and the better integration of the european social partners in the european semester.
in writing. − drug precursors are substances which are legal and used for the production of drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. some drug precursors are listed as controlled substances in the existing regulation, which are divided into three categories: category 1 is subject to strict export, import and transit formalities, while category 3 scheduled substances are subject to certain formalities only if exported to certain countries. the problem is with medicines containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which have been excluded from the scope of application to date. however, such medicinal products are not covered by the category of controlled substances and are subject to special rules. i voted for the report because it is essential to crack down on drug trafficking. this includes the trade in substances from which drugs can be made. the eu must ensure that it does not become the norm to set up drug laboratories in apartments, houses and storage rooms with relative ease. the more difficult it is to obtain the substances needed to make drugs, the more difficult it is to obtain drugs.
in writing. the amendment to the regulation is intended to combat more effectively the illicit trade in chemical precursors for the production of drugs, in particular the substance acetane hydride used in the manufacture of heroin. the adaptation of the directive is important because the large quantities of this chemical produced and traded are very difficult to control, and although three quarters of seizures are made in the eu, this represents only a fraction of the quantity that disappears each year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i was able to accept the request without any reservations, not least because these databases have been subject to extensive data protection provisions.
in writing. − it is essential that the regulation laying down rules for the control of trade in drug precursors between the community and third countries functions properly in order to be able to take proactive action against drug production and trafficking. it is sensible and desirable to include medicinal products which can be used to manufacture drugs in the scope of the regulation.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals that can be used to produce narcotics. these include substances which, although not addictive, can be converted into a narcotic (e.g. ephedrine, lysergic acid). precursors in the broad sense include other chemical substances such as acids, bases and organic solvents. they are suitable for the manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, but are not incorporated in the narcotic itself. since only small doses of drug precursors are needed to produce hard drugs, careful handling and strict control of these substances is essential. since it would be too expensive to produce these substances themselves, which are usually produced in large quantities at great industrial cost, mechanisms need to be created, such as the establishment of an eu-wide database of substances concerned. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − intensive monitoring of drug precursors is an important contribution to the fight against drug addiction and crime. in particular, acetic anhydride (the raw material for heroin) needs to be closely monitored to avoid illicit processing. the european union can take decisive steps to make it less attractive as a location for drug production.
in writing. − the intelligent use of technology is certainly one way of reducing costs. the new e-justice portal is also welcome, which can provide a great deal of information, provided that open questions can be resolved and that the database is maintained on an ongoing basis. to some extent, this may also result in an increase in citizen services. but only as long as people are not forced to be happy. it is all too easy to pass the cost on to the recipient. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i believe that these points have not been taken into account sufficiently to justify my unreserved support for the present action plan.
in writing. - counter-terrorism is - unfortunately - still an important security policy issue, but its needs must always be balanced against those of human rights and data protection. it is essential that the personal freedom of citizens of the european union be protected and preserved, in particular also with regard to payment transaction data.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank lady ashton and her team for the really excellent work she has been doing over these past years, and since we last talked about the cfsp report. i know it is not an easy task all the time, especially when we know that member states are not always very happy to give power away to the european level. many, or at least some of them, always try at different stages to prevent more power going to the european level and being taken away from them. that is one of my concerns with our common foreign and security policy because, as mr brok rightly said, it is the one thing that citizens like about the european union and of which they would like to have more. it is a fact that the european union is a global player. we spend more on development cooperation than any other country or group in the world, but we are not seen as much as we should be as a global player. this very often has to do – and i would like to come back to this point – with the lack of unity among member states, and also the lack of will to give more power to the european level. quite often it has to do with economic interests, to be very frank. if we look at trade and business lobbyists and interests on that ground, very often – i am afraid to say – these interests come before our common values. these common values of human rights, defence of democracy and the rule of law are things that are not just european values: they are universal values. it is something that makes our common foreign policy weak. i would like to take one example: that of russia. we all know that the situation in russia is worsening every day. it is not just the law by which all kinds of ngos that get money from abroad are so-called ‘foreign agents’; it is the lgbt laws that incite not just hatred but violence against people who are considered to be lgbt. they do not even have to be lesbian or gay. there have been incidents of late. and there is also the issue with greenpeace, whose activists are now facing the threat of being tried in court as pirates, which they certainly are not. on all of these issues, i think that the european union would be a lot stronger if we were more independent of fossil fuels and not afraid of russia turning off the gas now when the winter is coming. another issue that we should tackle is that of the united states of america. i am glad that we have in the report the words ‘diverging views’. i am very glad that the european parliament has just voted to demand the suspension of the swift agreement because of the nsa scandal, and i am glad that the parliament delegation that is going to visit washington next week will have to take that with it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in our globally interconnected world - this is a truism - it is hardly possible for one country to solve a foreign policy problem on its own. the european union is, however, unfortunately a lightweight on most foreign policy issues. even on minor foreign policy issues, agreement among the 27 member states is often very difficult. not to mention that it is almost impossible to put the big eu member states - france, the uk or germany - in the same denominator. the european union is not prepared to accept the new syrian national coalition as the legitimate representative of the syrian people, as france has been rushing to do. as long as the eu countries are in a race to satisfy american wishes, the eu will be degraded to a toothless paymaster for american interests. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we europeans urgently need an independent foreign policy, independent of washington, which makes the best use of the experience and good relations of the member states with certain regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report is great because it not only praises what has been achieved but above all defines the objective precisely: external, defence and security union. if you don't know where you're going, you can't plan the way there. and only if the european union is allowed to speak for the continent in the world, only if the european union speaks with one voice in the world and unites its forces, can we exert our weight adequately. it's about choosing a direction. not only that, but we also want to be a global player in this issue, or are we doomed to be a spectator? we can decide this direction ourselves, with the citizens. egypt, syria, lampedusa show that we must strengthen the common foreign, defence, security, external trade and development policy in order to be credible also to our own citizens and to regain confidence in our political action and in the institution. collaboration also means reducing costs and increasing efficiency. the unanimous vote must be waived. the common foreign and security policy is the only way to fulfil our responsibilities towards the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a common european foreign and security policy implies the pooling of forces and resources. this is something that could be advocated by all sides, given the budgetary situation in the european union. but on monday we were informed of the impending insolvency, and in view of this, are we now going to continue the accession negotiations with turkey? apart from the fact that the eu cannot afford such an accession, i wonder why this report calls for the opening of additional chapters when turkey does not recognise a member of the eu, namely cyprus. and last but by no means least, many thanks to the rapporteur and to you, madam high representative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. peaceful protest in the name of the environment is not a crime and certainly not piracy. greenpeace has never tried to hijack the oil rig in the sense of trying to appropriate other people's property. greenpeace was just trying to put a banner on the drill. greenpeace has never used violence either. there was not even a threat of violence. the detention of these 28 activists and these two journalists has no legal basis, no legal basis at all. i can only ask the russian authorities at this point to release these activists and these two journalists immediately. i would also like to ask my colleagues in the house to sign the greenpeace solidarity statement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, of course i can only join. i am also very pleased to see mr alvaro back in the president's chair. secondly, i did not know that the legal basis had been changed. thank you for the information.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also want to join those who thank the greenpeace people for daring to come here and do what greenpeace has a long tradition of doing, which is to make it clear that this ecologically sensitive region of the arctic needs to be protected and that now that it's starting to thaw there, not just any state - whether it's russia or whether it's any other state - can start to exploit, exploit, exploit, without regard for loss. the problem is that even as the european union and as member states of the european union against russia, we have little leverage against this regime, putin, because we are so dependent on oil and gas. the situation these greenpeace activists are in now is untenable: they are accused of piracy, and even putin said it wasn't piracy. it can't be piracy either, they didn't board the ship to enrich themselves, as the russian law defines piracy. another charge was that they were hooligans. or they could have had painkillers on board. now they say there was morphine, that's drugs. or they're accused of having weapons on board. this is all bullshit, this is an attempt to criminalize people, to lock them up, to put them in jail for years, just because they have paid attention to the fact that the environment on this planet must be protected and not exploited for decades.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr ulmer for his cool head and for presenting a balanced report. as i said, we in the committee have more or less changed the legal basis to the lisbon treaty. i think that's wrong. this is also made clear by the legal service report and by the juri committee. i hope that we can correct this in the vote or perhaps in the subsequent negotiations. it's really important to approach this issue with a cool head and not play with people's fears, because these ionizing radiations, as we know, have a lot of negative effects on human health, but they have a lot of applications, especially in medicine, in diagnostics, in cancer control, but also in technology, and they have so many positive effects on human life. it is important to strike a balance here, so that we can achieve a benefit for society, but at the same time a very high level of protection for those who need treatment, and for the staff who deal with these radiations. the amendments tabled by some of my colleagues are therefore not going in the right direction, because they are going beyond the mark. the basis should be the science that tells us which dose is tolerable and which is already too harmful. this report is designed to take account of these new findings and, above all, to eliminate inconsistencies arising from the chronological order of the various directives. i am also glad that mr ulmer has already indicated that he is in favour of dealing with the whole environmental aspect in a separate directive. the commission should then also make the preliminary work and come up with a proposal. the treaty of lisbon is certainly the right legal basis. i look forward to the proposal on this subject. we shall certainly have a long discussion on this.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mr panayotov how he views the texts in this house in relation to fukushima. do you think that the texts we have here have any relevance to what is happening in the sewage basins and through the gau in fukushima? how relevant do you make that?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr franco for the work he has done here, but also commissioner potočnik. it is not easy today for the commissioner responsible for the environment to make progressive proposals. we all know that the magic word 'competitiveness' is used to justify everything. however, i am convinced that this programme is a step in the right direction, because we must be clear: the environment action programme is not something on the fringe of community policy, but it is central. all activities - economic, political, social and cultural - take place in a real environment. it is only when this real environment is working well that all the other activities we put in place, especially the economic ones, will have the right result. that is why i am glad that we have proposed concrete actions. the art of politics is to create the right conditions for the future development of our society in the long term. history clearly shows that the most successful societies are always those that work most efficiently. so if i may just take the chapter on climate and energy for a moment: it is important for us that we really maintain these three objectives for the framework we are discussing, including the 2030 agenda. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure. this is good for both consumers and our economy. the future of energy, i believe, will be solved by renewable energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. of course, we also need to continue in the co2 area if we are to meet the 2°c target. i am glad that we have reached an agreement relatively quickly and that the water issue has been taken into account. i would like to congratulate the directors and you, commissioner, on your continued broad-shouldered role in the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we know, new media are constantly presenting us with new challenges, and i believe that the sheer number of forms of advertising on the internet alone calls for more detailed scrutiny of the protection of personal data. but there is another form of surveillance that is even more worrying: if google, for example, is saying in the context of the nsa affair that no gmail user should expect the content of his personal emails to remain private, this is highly worrying. in the past, it was said that the emails of gmail accounts were only scanned for spam and viruses and used for the switching of personalized data. in the context of the progress of e-government, it is necessary to clarify that the sending of e-mails is subject to postal secrecy, just as the sending of letters, so that no provider can read the messages. i also believe that customers have a right to know what user data may be passed on to security authorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the wine sector is a particularly sensitive sector and is highly dependent on nature, for example in terms of weather conditions, soil conditions, the quality of the grapes and, last but not least, the presence of microbes. and for production, as we all know, a high level of know-how is required. the wine sector is of course also subject to a wide range of regulations, including at eu level. unfortunately, these too are constantly changing. the extent to which the latest changes to the 2008 cmo will actually affect the wine sector, which is a hotly contested sector and is also repeatedly affected by wine imports from third countries, cannot, in my view, be fully stated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal work in these areas, but it cannot go so far as to start hunting down relatives and acquaintances who are helping.
in writing. − the eu budget for 2014 is expected to be around €142 billion around 6% less than in 2013. it should be remembered, however, that the supplementary budget for 2013 is a good 4 billion. the eu must set a good example and cut back on unnecessary spending, especially in our time of financial crisis. in this sense, the administrative efforts to save are a step in the right direction. of course, the actual savings potential is much higher. finally, closing one of the three parliamentary sites and clearing the eu agency jungle alone would save billions. and in many areas, renationalization makes sense. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, and therefore in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2014. it delivers a structured and clear ‘big picture’ of the eu budget and it takes into consideration all the negotiations and the political agreements made retrospectively, bearing in mind the proposals and opinions of all the eu institutions, and attempting to cover all ‘weaknesses’ of an eu economy struggling with a financial crisis. voting in favour of the draft general budget means supporting all eu member countries in areas like economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, unemployment (especially youth unemployment), infrastructure projects, research and innovation, and education (directly linked to youth initiatives and youth unemployment). all eu institutions (especially the council) should understand that, in order to ‘revitalize’ the current economic situation, we – the european union – should act efficiently and with ‘financial responsibility’. the current budget (as proposed by the ep) reflects a balance between commitments and payments. there should be no repeat of the situation of the eu being unable to meet its legal obligations.
in writing. − from 2000 to 2010, 2700 scientists from 80 nations carried out a survey of the oceans, the census of marine life. in this kind of "census" in the oceans, they identified 120,000 different species, including 1,200 previously unknown. scientists estimated that there are about a million higher life-forms and a billion species of microbes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the marine environment. since it is feared that mapping may also be used for the exploration of natural resources such as natural gas or oil, which could then lead to extraction, it is questionable whether mapping would not be the first step in the gradual destruction of this habitat. i have therefore abstained, since the report does not deal with this at all.
in writing. − while respecting the confidentiality of sensitive maps, the mapping of the seabed is to be agreed. however, it should be clarified which data should be publicly funded and therefore made available to the public. accurate compilation and linkage of data is important to achieve the desired results.
in writing. − strengthening the enforcement of eu trade rights, increasing the eu's credibility and ensuring that trading partners play by the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. the eu has repeatedly had to defend itself before the wto or seek to influence the wto in trade disputes. in this sense, some adjustments to the existing framework seem sensible, although of course this should not have a negative impact on the number of dispute settlements. retaliation as a last and temporary measure against a country which is in breach of the rules has proved to be quite effective in the past, although this measure must of course be used sparingly. experts also believe that eu trade policy measures should also apply to the services sector. the arguments in this respect are convincing, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − there is currently no clear eu enforcement mechanism for trade agreements, including those concluded by the wto. this situation makes it far too long to decide on the occasionally necessary economic deterrence or retaliation measures by eu states against third countries. the report supports an approach that would allow such horizontal measures to be implemented more quickly, but points out that this must still be seen as a last resort. i believe credible because viable threats are important to ensure a functioning deterrent to harmful trade practices of other countries. this is not to say that deterrence or retaliation should be more frequent, but the open possibility of doing so strengthens the bargaining power of eu member states to press their demands before the ultimatum has to be met. with the rise of china and the brics economies, such opportunities are more important than ever. i therefore voted in favour of the report and its recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because europe’s economy must be given a chance to restart; we have to enforce and at the same time protect the eu’s trade rights. because, generally i believe that ‘trade’ is a key element in one’s country’s economic development. maybe the current legislative framework for the eu’s trade rights will not be the direct solution for decreasing the current unemployment rate across europe’s countries, but it can be a general answer and a starting solution for the eu’s economies. openness to new markets can be translated into new business opportunities for least developed eu countries that struggle to make their local business stronger and boost competiveness, by facilitating and promoting the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. but at the same time we have to convince our trading partners that certain rules, trade agreements, must be followed.
in writing. − the rapporteur's view on the doubling of data collection, control and enforcement measures is strongly to be welcomed. public funds should in any case be used to support these cfp objectives. the rapporteur's line against the amendments is also to support measures to maintain and develop excess capacity (aid for the replacement of engines, for temporary closure and for investment funds). contrary to the rapporteur's opinion, no fleet renewal should be allowed, as it could lead to overfishing.
in writing. − climate action is an investment in future quality of life. while leading industrialised countries such as the usa, japan and germany are working to reduce their emissions of climate-damaging co2, emissions are rising in emerging countries such as china and india. however, this development is to be viewed in a very differentiated way. because if in the name of co2 control, we are betting on electricity and heat, we cannot possibly be talking about climate and environmentally friendly. instead of a trade in allowances, which does not reduce but at best redistributes the hidden development aid of total emissions, and a conversion of power stations into climate-friendly plants, more promotion of renewable energies, more energy efficiency and renovation of old buildings is needed. these considerations have influenced my voting behaviour.
in writing. − organized crime is now a worldwide phenomenon, which can spread relatively unhindered by the opening of borders on the one hand and by the networking and globalisation of the world on the other. in the european union alone, there are 3,600 international criminal organisations, of which 70% have a heterogeneous composition and range of activities. the fact that it is composed of members from all eu countries means that it also acts across national borders. in addition, organized crime is becoming more ruthless and brutal. corruption and money laundering, which were for a long time marginal aspects of organised crime, have now become a fixed element and go hand in hand. it is also important to note that the legal economy is now suffering from the effects of illegal trade, which has already been infiltrated on a massive and shocking scale. i have abstained because, on the one hand, i believe that there is an urgent need to put a stop to organized crime, but i do not have the practical means to do so. i also believe that it is essential to strengthen the protection and control of the eu's external borders in order to prevent mafia activities by non-european gangs within the eu, by means of strict entry controls in advance.
in writing. the report by mr iacolino on organised crime, corruption and money laundering deserves support in principle. however, i have serious reservations about the introduction of a centralised european prosecutor's office, as called for by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the transnational fight against organised crime and corruption is not a prosecution problem but a challenge to the investigations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of personal data. the results of the investigation can and must be used in the national states to bring charges. there is no need for a european prosecutor. the second reservation i have is that the report calls for the abolition of banking secrecy. as an austrian, i am firmly convinced that our banking secrecy must not be further diluted. in conclusion, i would like to say that, given that a significant proportion of organised crime in germany and austria is of turkish origin, it seems extremely frivolous to want to take action against organised crime and at the same time to hold accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. − the final report of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering contains the recommendations of 18 months of work by the eu parliament on these issues. the fight against trafficking in human beings is of particular importance to the social democrats. sexual exploitation and forced labour must have no place in the european union. it is necessary to have pan-european monitoring centres, tougher penalties and better support for victims of trafficking. economic crime is costing european countries money every year that could be invested in jobs and education. it is essential that governments finally take targeted action against tax havens to put a stop to money laundering. i have, however, voted against some aspects of this report. because i believe that crime prevention should be targeted and not be a justification for general mass surveillance. the report proposes concrete measures to be taken by the commission and the member states. now it is up to governments to implement them.
in writing. − this report provides very high and sound experience from which clear objectives and approaches can be derived. to stop crime, you have to take away its lucrativeness. the following are clear suggestions for how to 'master' the problem. the report is very positive.
in writing. − partnerships and agreements between the eu and its neighbours are designed not only to win over current and future economic partners, but also to strengthen the societies of those countries and to align their policies with eu principles. the neighbourhood policy and its projects are therefore also central to european foreign policy, but they also have some shortcomings in their implementation. it is therefore essential to link these countries to europe and to strengthen relations through good neighbourliness, for example in the form of anti-corruption aid. i think it is irresponsible, however, to grant these countries visa-free travel or free movement to europe at this very moment, and to seek a neighbourhood policy in the politically unstable middle east. that is why i have refrained from making this request.
in writing. − this resolution defines the european neighbourhood policy in terms of a deepened partnership. the aim is to create an area of prosperity based on good neighbourliness, based on the union's values. the priority is security, solidarity and prosperity, which must be reciprocated. the eastern partner countries should also be supported in terms of their economic development. the major objectives of the action plan are the movement of goods, the abolition of trade restrictions, trade, international standards, cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs, transport, science, research and development, human rights, fundamental rights and culture. the interim balance of the european neighbourhood policy was very different. in some countries, such as germany, finland and slovakia, the european neighbourhood policy has been successful. france, romania and hungary have been less successful. the content of the action plans also varied widely, and the effectiveness of the support for political institutions was also assessed very differently. the basic problem is that political support is very weak in some cases and not uniform overall. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
in writing. − i welcome the european semester instrument in principle, as it has already demonstrated successes in pressing for reforms in member states. however, it must be made clear that more than 80% of the recommendations have still not been implemented and, even worse, in some areas and member states, no approaches to reform are visible. in particular, however, i would like to point out the much overdue reforms of pension, health and care systems in many member states, where the responsible governments have a huge responsibility towards the generations of today and tomorrow to create long-term financial security for these systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore regrettable that the decisions and findings of the green and white papers on the future-proofing of pension systems have not been taken into account to the full. i draw from what i have said a serious warning: if the necessary reforms are not undertaken as quickly as possible, this will only benefit those populists who are harnessing the discontent of the citizens and then not only endanger prosperity and social peace but destabilise our entire democratic system.
in writing. − the european semester is designed to improve the eu's economic and monetary policy and to promote overall growth through specific strategies, as part of the europe 2020 project. this includes extending the repayment periods of so-called 'deficit countries' while supporting growth-promoting investment opportunities in so-called 'surplus countries' with sufficient fiscal space. i voted against this proposal because i believe that this report does not simply call on the member states with economic growth to inject new funds into the deficit countries, but that these investments will only lead to the strengthening of the banks.
in writing. − the european semester is an eu measure to tackle the imbalances in the competitiveness of member states that have become particularly apparent since the eu financial crisis, but which were not caused by it. they stem from the original problem of the introduction of the euro. the same monetary policy through the single currency meets very different national fiscal policies within the eu. the european semester is now issuing binding recommendations to member states to tackle these imbalances. as morally decent as this approach is, it forgets the lessons of history that centrally planned economic policies are unlikely to succeed, with or without a wall. to take just one point from the report's multitude of absurd proposals, it welcomes, for example, that more competitive countries should 'export less' if possible by boosting their domestic demand. the aim here is to punish the competitive countries. the absurd implications of this for our economic system and for economic thought since adam smith are hard to imagine. such measures will reduce the eu's competitiveness as a whole in the medium and long term, by holding back successful countries rather than learning from them. i therefore reject the report and the whole institution of the european semester.
in writing. − the ‘european semester’ is a cycle of economic and fiscal policy coordination within the eu. during the european semester the member states align their budgetary and economic policies with the objectives and rules agreed at the eu level. i voted in favour of the european semester report, because it states a clear perspective of priorities that every member state and the european union as a whole should apply, in order to provide a healthy and well-functioning economy. taking into account the current context of the financial crisis in order to try restoring europe’s economy, i think we need long-term and sound investments and growth strategies. i think there is urgent action needed in areas like: investments for smes – alternative financing resources should be found; competitiveness – the european business environment should be more competitive; tax havens, combating tax fraud – better tax policies that would actually encourage investors – sound public finances; new employment opportunities for our youth generation; education; research and innovation. my belief is that in order to end this crisis situation we need to boost europe’s competitiveness in a global economy context.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the influx of migrants in the mediterranean is based on the events of the shipwreck off the italian island of lampedusa. the eu is trying to tackle this problem by strengthening certain organisations and institutions, such as frontex or the border guards of individual member states. however, this proposal is not to be welcomed, as it would lead to a liberalization of asylum policy and would only increase the number of those illegal immigrants. moreover, the planned opening of the labour market to asylum seekers is not a solution to the asylum problem, as this would in turn encourage an unbridled flow of people into europe and would leave the continent in a chaotic and financially unmanageable situation. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. - the resolution is a follow-up to the tragic events off lampedusa. many steps are mentioned which are intended to help improve the conditions for asylum flows from the coast of africa. the aim is to save many lives and improve the living conditions of survivors, and this report deserves our support.
in writing. − the national security agency (nsa) surveillance operation has shown that europe is very vulnerable in terms of data protection and that the us has not complied with the so-called tftp agreement (terrorist finance tracking program) and has instead used it purely for its own interests. however, since the eu is keen to continue both the fight against international terrorism by guaranteeing freedoms and civil rights and the cooperation between the various intelligence services as such, it reserves the right to set up a supervisory authority to monitor the flow of data between intelligence services in the context of the fight against terrorism. in my opinion, this supervisory authority must be called in at all events and any breach by the intelligence services must be severely punished. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the appropriations for the structural funds by eur 1 billion. the commission justifies this additional amount by the low revenue from customs duties and vat in the current year. it is significant that in addition to the supplementary budget of eur 3.9 billion, there is a hole of eur 2.7 billion in the eu coffers. the eu is obliged by the treaty to balance its balance sheet. the eu commission announced that it would be insolvent by mid-november if the €2.7 billion were not approved under the urgency procedure. a week ago, in the course of the trilogue negotiations on the eur 3.9 billion amending budget no 8, there was no talk of a bankruptcy threat. it is incredible that the commission only discovered the alleged bankruptcy over the weekend. it is a shame that the budgetary authority is informed at the last minute. if the eu cannot meet its payment obligations, it must save more, and there is plenty of saving potential. the commission's blackmailing approach is to be rejected in the strongest possible terms, and i express my rejection of the report in this way.
in writing. − draft amending budget no. 6 (dab no 6) represents a revision of forecasts of different revenues to the eu budget (vat, gni and traditional own resources (tor) – such as customs duties and different levies – e.g. sugar sector levies) and is ‘crucial to avoid cash shortages that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2013’. in order to avoid europe’s insolvency and other negative effects for the 2014 budget and the multiannual financial framework (where negotiations are still going on) for the new financial period 2014-2020, i think it is of utmost importance that the european union provides viable solutions, so that member states/beneficiaries still receive their resources. it makes no sense to stop the ‘economic engine’ at this moment, because payments that need to be made from dab 6 refer to projects already implemented, eligible from the financial period 2007-2014. in the end payments will have to be made. postponing this decisions and payments will only mean more ‘financial resources shortfalls’ next year and uncertainty in next year’s budget and financial and programming period; the eu budget is not allowed to have any debts according to the treaty.
in writing. − the european union sets out the medium-term objectives of european environmental policy for several years each by means of an environment action programme (eap). the sixth environmental action programme, which covered the period 2002 to 2012, expired at the end of july last year. the commission is now preparing a seventh environmental action programme. an important objective is to take measures to protect the environment. as a comprehensive concept, the 7th environment action programme can serve both as the european union's major environmental manifesto to its citizens and the rest of the world, and as the founding document of a european ecological new deal ahead of the 2020 horizon, as a driver of 'greener' growth and a tool for job creation. there is no question that we must not continue to exploit the environment and must also be careful to exploit the resources that we have, such as oil and gas. in addition, a minimum level of environmental technology standards should be respected in the extraction of raw materials. however, the primary responsibility should remain with the individual countries in order to prevent exploitation by large global corporations. i think it makes little sense for the eu to behave like an 'environmental police'. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − this resolution sets out a new general environmental action programme of the european union for the period up to 2020. the programme covers topics such as the destruction of ecosystems, energy consumption and pollution. the programme should combine an environmental message with economic and industrial concerns, and the actors should work together to develop an innovative and forward-looking approach. however, in order to achieve 'green growth', more and more complex environmental regulations are emerging, which overlap and are difficult to understand. furthermore, smes have no means of complying with the requirements. another problem is the considerable differences between member states and implementation. in addition, eu environmental legislation is not based on a solid scientific basis, and therefore has little acceptance and is difficult to enforce. i think that the environment action programme does not yet have a clear strategy. these and other clear messages should be formulated. what is the role of the citizen and how can environmental awareness be raised among the citizen? i voted against the environment action programme because of the many ambiguities and the lack of a clear strategy.
in writing. − this report aims to create a new european union environment action programme for the period up to 2020, under the theme 'living well within the limits of our planet'. the aim is to link an environmental message with economic and industrial policy concerns and to optimise the use and effectiveness of eu grants. the combination of all these factors leads to the conclusion that the present report is acceptable.
in writing. - when radiation is mentioned in the context of nuclear energy, it refers to a very specific type of radiation: ionizing radiation. it is produced by the decay of radioactive atoms, which release energy in the form of radiation, ionizing radiation. in colloquial language, ionizing radiation is often mistakenly called radioactive radiation. however, radioactivity is the property of radioactive atoms that decay and emit ionizing radiation. the dangers of ionising radiation depend on the nature, energy and duration of the radiation and the route of exposure. alpha radiation has a short range, so it is largely harmless outside the body. inside the body, however, it can damage tissue. newly collected data are now to be incorporated into legislation and natural radiation sources are also to be included in the basic standards directive. i abstained because i agree with the rapporteur that there is a danger of a reserve legislation. the rapporteur notes that the proposed provisions on environmental criteria are intended to ensure that the protection of humans is also ensured by means of rules for the protection of non-human species. however, since it is not yet possible to determine on a sound scientific basis the effects of radiation on non-human species, such regulations cannot provide better protection for humans.
in writing. - the concerns raised by the committee on the environment and public health regarding the feasibility of a combined directive were the main reason for my abstention. i also do not think it would be sensible to negotiate patient safety provisions with those for the transport of radioactive materials within the framework of a directive, even though this might occasionally lead to some relief from the bureaucratic work involved. in addition, all the motions for a reduction in the limit values were unfortunately rejected by the plenary.
in writing. − the common foreign and security policy is one of the most important projects and is intended to serve as the eu's response to future threats and challenges in a wide range of areas. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the negotiations. the eu must nevertheless prove itself as an independent foreign policy power and distance itself as far as possible from the conflicts of other major powers, especially the united states. furthermore, the eu should not consider further enlargements as a motivation for conducting its foreign policy negotiations - this is particularly true of the prospect of turkish accession. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council and the commission are able to reach agreement on the matter.
in writing. - i believe that deeper integration is the way forward for europe. it is of great importance for the member states to join forces in order not to lose touch with the turbulent global market and with the major players such as the americas, china and other asian countries. however, i also believe that the member states are either not in a position at present or are not ready to enter into such a deep partnership, particularly in the field of foreign and defence policy, as is suggested in the report. the member states should in any case work to improve mutual trust and step by step we should find common ground in this area. i have abstained because important motions (such as those concerning cyprus) which are contrary to international agreements were accepted in plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament's timetable for 2014 has been set since before the summer. we must plan our meetings properly and the hand calendar we need to record dates should therefore be available in the house one month after the vote on the plan. we're almost into november, and there's still no plan. could you perhaps see to it that this plan is printed in time, since we usually start planning the dates for the following year in july?
in writing. - the sheer number of forms of advertising on websites alone makes it necessary to carry out more detailed scrutiny to protect personal data. and what's most concerning is that if google is being so blatant about the nsa scandal, no gmail user should expect the content of personal emails to remain private. it must be made clear that e-mail, like letters, is subject to postal secrecy, i.e. no one can read it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the right to freedom of movement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the expansion and regulation of existing telecommunications infrastructure is as important as investment in the expansion of higher data rates. the existing regulatory framework for electronic communications services has brought a number of improvements for consumers and users, but care should be taken to ensure that the regulatory framework is also adapted to the current developments in this sector. the objectives proposed by the commission in 2007 must be pursued and the report must be endorsed in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i asked for a vote some time ago, a few months ago, to set the order in such a way that the compromise was voted on first and then the amendments were not taken until they were rejected. it was rejected at the time. i can therefore only say that i agree with the principle, because that is what i have asked for in principle. i would simply ask that the procedure which has now been found for the budget, as far as i understand it, be applied in principle. of course, i think that perhaps a committee's proposal can be dealt with differently because there was no compromise. so in that respect i would naturally consider it appropriate to treat the case of the social committee differently. but i fully accept the president's decision. the basic decision is exactly what i called for a few weeks ago, so i fully support it! i should like to say a few words about the letter from the lithuanian presidency. mr verhofstadt, i have looked at this carefully. i can also imagine a better, stronger letter, only most of the time, where it's about "rubbish or cut", it's about concrete details. it could be, for example, december 18th or 19th. i consider this letter to be a clear endorsement of the establishment of this working party. that is the precondition for our being able to agree. and i see no doubt that there is agreement, it is only the details that can give rise to different views. i believe that the council, parliament and the commission are now in agreement on the setting up of the own resources working party.
i have to say, madam president, mr. vice president kallas, i'm not known for always praising you. but in this case, i have to say, well done. we are taking the proposals that the commission has brought to parliament, what we have done with them, a step further towards putting europe's transport concept where it belongs. the principles which you yourself have considered essential - namely european added value, the transcendence of frontiers and, above all, the principle that we do not want to make aerial planning, but we want to support the countries which want to build or build, which also want to finance or finance - have led to the fact that we will now finally decide on a good network. i must admit that i have had a particular problem with this question: a link from the far north to the adriatic ports in the south, which also passes through austria. i think it was a good idea to force that, too. austria will invest a lot eur 8.7 billion and that is good, if there is also european support for it, for a project that has european added value, that is cross-border and that is actually being built. the european union is also making a major contribution to the development of the european transport network. i think this is a good, big success. i am not saying that we should not be doing this, but we should be doing it.
mr president, (the speaker is speaking without a microphone) ... for citizens is to increase citizen participation at eu level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no legal obligation on the commission to take any action. the commission's latest attempt to restrict the decision-making power of the eu parliament - the only elected body of the eu - in the so-called citizens' programme is particularly strange. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. whether through delegated acts or, as in this case, through a change in the legal basis, the commission is seeking to expand its powers. this is the autism of a central bureaucracy that is increasingly distancing itself from the citizens!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. such agreements are always a dangerous wedge between the hoped-for economic benefits and the well-being of their own people. a clear pro is the enforcement of eu standards in procurement rules: environmental aspects may be taken into account in the award of contracts very welcome, punishment of wrongdoing by companies by future exclusion from the award of contracts also very positive. this should not, however, prevent the commission from making it more complex, particularly by extending its scope to include other public authorities and services for the general public. and so there are some questions: will there be displacement competition by the larger companies that are trying to do this? will there be problems with the responsibility or sustainability of foreign investors? so a series of questions! i would say this: our search - and sometimes our greed - for new markets is a double-edged sword, and it certainly must not be at the expense of quality, which must always come before quantity!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every member of parliament has received this letter adults for adults and a nice bottle of red wine. but what appears to be a citizens' initiative is actually sponsored by the tobacco lobby. i went to these people and i returned the wine bottle. and what they did was a really cynical comment, which was that we would think that members of parliament could google, that you could find out where the money for these completely unnecessary gifts came from. mr wieland, you are called upon to put an end to this deception of members and voters. every lobbyist has to identify themselves as such. we need a mandatory lobby registry, we need a legal footprint so that each of us can track when someone is taking over something from lobbyists and who it's coming from. it is not possible to pretend to be a citizens' initiative and in reality to lobby on behalf of and with the money of the tobacco lobby.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to take this opportunity to address a case that has been assigned to me. in july 2011, the 'arena armeez' sports hall was built in sofia, an eu-funded project in which strabag of austria and gbs of bulgaria participated in the tender. strabag initially received more points than gbs, e.g. strabag's bid was lower by 3,8 million. they were also ahead in parking lots. the law required 1 153 parking spaces, while strabag offered 1 206 parking spaces, while gbs only 1 006. however, gbs was ultimately awarded the contract because it subsequently reduced the price offer. however, according to the procurement directives, after a change in the tender, all companies must be invited to submit a new tender. the commission should therefore examine whether eu law has been infringed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too reject this mff, although for different reasons than my colleagues from the liberals or the greens. i would like to join the criticism that unfortunately nothing has changed - not even this mff - in the fact that currently open accounts are being deferred to the next financial year, with a backpack of increasingly large amounts, so to speak, and a burden on the budgets of subsequent years. this is a problem that you can't get a handle on. the enormous discrepancy between the commitment appropriations and the payment appropriations of more than 50 billion euros is also not being changed. and that's because this method is basically circumventing the debt prohibition and breaking the primary law. but as the representative of a member state which, as a net contributor, is a very important contributor to the financing of this financial framework, i must say very clearly to you that as long as this european union fails to deal with what olaf and in particular the court of auditors have been finding in its reports for years and days, namely that there is a misappropriation of eu funds worth billions of euros, fraud, abuse of funds, waste of eu funds, disappearance in mafia channels as long as i am not prepared to vote for any budget or medium-term financial framework which will further burden my country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so now the 3% drop compared to the previous period is being hailed as a big cost saving. however, what kind of framework is this if it is clear from the outset that the funds will not be sufficient? if the financial promises are higher each year than the actual resources, then the eu debt mountain can only grow further. the member states are known to be subject to strict austerity measures and the imf is even used to attack the savings of the citizens. the greek and italian people are being forced to save, just to save the banks. and the states, in turn, are being punished for exceeding budget ceilings with completely irrational ratings. but at the same time the eu is continuing to impose pseudo-austerity programmes and actually sell people for stupid. in my view, only by eliminating the agency jungle and effective fraud control, with the consistent recovery of misused funds, can eu countries save billions in eu contributions. i think it is time to start making nails with heads instead of just making budget cosmetics.
the commission has already done so. we now have the multiannual framework. i also wonder whether the funds will really be sufficient in view of the economic crisis which is still raging. i would have liked to see better progress, faster progress, in the formation of the working party on own resources. i would have liked to see much more investment in education and industry, because europe has indeed fallen behind, and i wonder how long we will have to watch it go by the wayside. i really want massive investment in education, research and our economy. we know what the unemployment rate is in each country. i ask you to take into account that young people in particular suffer from this. i would like to remind all of us of that once again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a fervent pro-european, it is already very difficult to prevent the inner fire from being extinguished in the face of this eu budget. what you are proposing is structurally conservative, in the traditional sense even reactionary. it is being cut in certain areas but not promoted where it is really needed. this budget lacks the inner strength, the inspiration. where are the funds to combat youth unemployment? where are the funds for innovation, research, as the rapporteur rightly said? yes, let's call it it, airbus. i also come from the area where a lot has been done with it. instead, you have not cut where it is necessary, even though it is possible. billions of dollars in savings would have been possible: we don't need it on iter. we don't need them in the eu agencies for the most part. and yes, here in parliament too. instead of actually cutting and re-scaling, you're presenting a budget that's driving voters into the arms of the anti-eu. you'll have to take responsibility for this! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr martin, who has been loudly complaining that this budget does not provide for enough savings and is investing in the wrong way, whether he does not also believe that we members of parliament must be careful with public funds, with which we conduct an election campaign, for example. how can he explain that the vienna prosecutor's office a year ago asked to extradite him for alleged fraud in this campaign funds in millions? isn't that a contradiction?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not it's a campaign, and those are the opponents that matter. we have to stop these guys from getting really strong. the fact is that what mr mölzer says is not true. for ten years i have been the subject of repeated investigations, not least because of the freedom party's ads. if there was anything, there would have been a charge by now. and mr mölzer is precisely the one who, by means of a luxury supplementary pension and other things he does - which will be revealed later - is actually using eu funds irresponsibly.
mr president, commissioner, minister, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and negotiators of the council and the commission for the long joint work they have done, as well as the staff of the secretariat of the group. eighteen hours of negotiations, although the negotiations were actually much longer. i was the general rapporteur for the 2013 budget but, at the end of 2013, i did not realise that my work was finished, as we continued to negotiate throughout 2014 as with the mff, with the 2014 budget, also to implement the 2013 budget. never before has there been a need to add resources to the budget as in this case, and we have had a great many amending budgets, not always easy to solve. when approving the 2013 budget, we asked the commission and the council to present as soon as possible an amending budget that could put payment needs at the centre. the commission did this with amending budget no 2, but it took us the whole year to complete it. in any case, we also thank the council for the sense of responsibility it has shown in the integration of payment appropriations. a long journey, but one that allowed us to implement the 2013 budget without a deficit. we know that we have reached the spending ceilings and that there are still substantial bills that will be incurred in the last months and we will pay from the 2014 budget. but as an institution we have certainly done our best to implement the 2013 budget in the best way. an entry also relates to amending budget no 9: we finally approved it, looking for €150 million in fresh resources in the 2014 budget; it is an important sign because european solidarity needs additional resources and we will certainly need additional resources in the coming years, mr president of the council, to finance solidarity. the satisfaction of having reached an agreement after having started from positions which were inevitably far apart must be accompanied by the awareness that the prospects for the procedure and action in the years ahead must change. i think it is necessary, from an economic and financial point of view, to provide the eu with its own resources so that it can be periodically freed from this dance of negotiations on figures, which inevitably leads us to these exhausting nightly negotiations every year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to recall a few things. i think it is very important to remember that this budget provides for 6% less expenditure. which state, which member state has achieved this in its 2014 budget plan? i am saddened - and most concerned - that the summer payments are likely to be a problem again. dear council, if you order something today, make sure that it can be paid for, otherwise you better not order it at all. i can't just go get an electrician to fix a tv and then say, "good man, i don't know when you're gonna get your money". this is not right! i think that in view of the serious economic crisis, youth financing and microfinance are a drop in the bucket. but you're better than nothing. i would like to thank our two rapporteurs for their work.
mr president, very briefly, at the same time as we are meeting here the former president of cyprus, mr glafcos clerides, will be buried. this is not on behalf of our political group, but mr clerides fought very hard for cyprus to be a member of the european union and i just want to remind members of this house that this very important personality, who fought for cyprus’s membership, is being buried at this very moment in cyprus.
in writing. - the eu budget compromise is what my colleague and budget spokesman paul rübig calls a balance of scares and opportunities. i want to join him! the decisions are a shock, because next year, at a time when there is more to do than ever, the eu budget will be cut for the first time. at the same time, they are an opportunity because a linear reduction in most areas has made it possible to do more in some central areas: the funds for combating unemployment and promoting growth were increased by 37%, for infrastructure development by 50% and for security-related expenditure by a good 27%. this decision is much more than a budget decision, because at the same time the budgetary rules of the game for the allocation of eu funds were adopted. this is a matter of trust in the european institutions, and therefore of the utmost importance. finally, i would like to expressly welcome the council's decision to set up a working group on the creation of genuine eu own resources this year.
in writing. − this draft deals with the preparation and implementation of the investments of the eu's multiannual financial framework, which is set for seven years from 1 january 2014 and thus sets out the eu's budgetary objectives for europe 2020. the aim is to simplify the use of special instruments in the budgetary procedure, such as the solidarity fund or the contribution to the financing of major projects, and to lower the ceiling for expenditure. the budget is still too high. in addition, misinvestment continues in projects that also serve as a welcome source of income for criminal forces (as in the case of l'aquila). it is for these reasons that i am voting against this draft.
in writing. the compromise between parliament and the council is the result of lengthy negotiations. in my opinion, the outcome of the negotiations is not ideal, but it is the best possible outcome that could be achieved under the current political circumstances. a compromise was necessary to ensure the political viability of the european union in the years ahead. the multiannual financial framework sets out not only the financial allocation but also the political priorities for the next seven years. the parliament and the socialist group have had a positive influence on the multiannual financial framework. for example, in the case of the increase in erasmus+ funding or the youth guarantee. the future budget should also allow for greater flexibility to respond to current policy developments. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment.
in writing. − the mff is a spending plan that translates the eu priorities into financial terms and is the basis for the annual budgetary exercise. it sets the maximum annual amounts the eu may spend in different political fields and therefore provides a political as well as a budgetary framework for the benefit of 500 million europeans. the european council decided in february that the new mff will be lower than the current one. the agreement reached on 11 november in brussels between parliament and the council ends the budgetary negotiation for 2014 and the next programming period, considering all negotiations and political agreements to have been decided retrospectively, bearing in mind the proposals and opinions of all the eu institutions attempting to cover all the perceived weaknesses of an economy struggling with a financial crisis. the mff includes new initiatives to help young europeans find jobs and small and medium enterprises gain access to badly needed investment funds, and it ensures that all obligations for the 2013 eu budget will be met, enabling the eu to start the financial period without the kind of unpaid claims made in the past. the mff includes an important deal on flexibility which limits the maximum possible expenditure for a european union of 28 member states to 1.0 % of the eu’s gross national income (gni) in commitments.
in writing. the long-awaited increase in the european social fund has finally been achieved! these additional allocations are intended to contribute to addressing the challenges of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and poverty and social exclusion in those member states. the increase of eur 150 million is very welcome. it is now up to the member states to use this money as efficiently as possible.
in writing. - youth unemployment is growing alarmingly in the member states of spain, italy and france. as this is a problem that threatens to affect the economic development of the eu and its member states, the budgetary authority, together with the commission and the european council, decided to provide additional resources under the esf (european social fund) for the above mentioned member states to combat youth unemployment. since youth unemployment, especially in the countries mentioned, requires preventive measures and the eu is using the financial resources appropriately to prevent, among other things, mass migration within europe as part of the labour market, i have agreed to this request.
in writing. − this amending budget provides for an increase of eur 150 million in appropriations for 2013. the aim of this appropriation is to combat unemployment in france, italy and spain by increasing the european social fund (esf). the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy. we must therefore now invest in the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and in the fight against social exclusion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of dab no 7 as the amounts of this draft budget refer to a commitment appropriation increase in the mff, financial means mobilised in order to help people in need. these commitments will increase the european social fund (esf) allocations for three member states: france, italy and spain where the financial crisis struck, increasing the unemployment rate considerably. the esf is european union’s main instrument for supporting jobs, helping people get better jobs and ensuring fairer job opportunities for all eu citizens. it works by investing in europe’s human capital – its workers, its young people and all those seeking a job, in fact europe’s citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 8, as i truly believe that, generally speaking, a new financial period should not begin with unpaid bills from previous years, in this case from the last mff period. dab no 8 reflects the outstanding additional payment appropriations required to meet year-end needs across the 2013 budget. parliament and the council reached a political agreement on 11 november 2013 regarding the mff, and dab no 8 goes hand-in-hand with this agreement, which includes an important deal on flexibility which will allow maximum use to be made of funds, after the member states substantially reduced the financial amount for the mff as compared with the original commission proposal. this will, in theory, enable situations like this, where designing dab no 8 was necessary, to be avoided in the future.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the effects of the economic crisis. in recent years, spain has been particularly affected by this, for example in the construction industry, where the global financial and economic crisis has led to a sharp rise in unemployment, particularly in the spanish regions such as the comunidad valenciana. the egf is intended to provide financial resources to member states to provide vocational guidance, business support, support for business start-ups, etc. as measures to reintegrate into the world of work. i welcome this proposal because i think it is important that the eu, especially in times of crisis, sends an important signal by making meaningful investments to combat unemployment, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from spain for the company active in the manufacture of glass and glassware, ceramics and processing of stone and earth was examined, and concerns 630 redundancies in 140 companies. the labour market in the comunidad valenciana has been severely affected by the crisis. the unemployment rate increased significantly from 9,61% in the first quarter of 2008 to 29,19% in the first quarter of 2013. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. the government procurement agreement (gpa) is an international agreement on procurement standards for government procurement. such agreements are always a dangerous wedge between the hoped-for economic benefits and the well-being of their own people. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. environmental aspects may now be taken into account in the award of contracts and the punishment of misconduct by companies by future exclusion from the award of contracts is also allowed. this should not, however, prevent the complexity of the system from increasing, particularly as the scope of the directive is extended to include other public authorities and services for ordinary citizens. in addition, the degree of foreign influence on important areas of national or regional welfare could increase. the extent to which a correct sense of responsibility or sustainability in the actions of foreign investors can be expected here remains questionable. this can also lead to the displacement of small local firms by large international firms. the dangers of this new agreement outweighing the possible benefits, i voted against it.
in writing. − the european exchange programmes, which have been successful for decades and have now been re-classified as 'erasmus+', are also an effective measure in the fight against youth unemployment. the experience gained abroad, mobility and language skills have a demonstrable and significant impact on job opportunities for young people. i am particularly pleased that the education committee of the european parliament has succeeded in pushing through an increased budget for erasmus+ in the financial framework until 2020. at eur 14.8 billion, there is significantly more money available than before. the erasmus for students, comenius for pupils, leonardo da vinci for apprentices, grundtvig for adult education and the new funding opportunities for youth and sports can thus develop their potential even more and offer a european perspective to even more learners. this is a great success for the european parliament. since 1987, erasmus+ has helped to finance some 3 million young people to study abroad. more than 45 000 austrian students have gained experience abroad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. erasmus+ is much more than a traditional mobility programme. for example, for the first time, students, especially those at the master's level, will be able to take out loans for study abroad on favourable terms.
in writing. − i am very pleased that we have been able to achieve an increase in the erasmus+ budget in the context of the negotiations on the financial framework. erasmus is one of the most successful and well-known programmes of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry. for crisis-ridden europe, with record levels of youth unemployment, investing in youth, employment, education and innovation is more important than ever. with erasmus+, we are not only giving young people the chance of a better future, but we are also paving the way for a 'european' generation that is internationally connected. it is therefore all the more important to ensure that support is equally accessible to all and not socially selective. elements such as student loans may be additional measures only and not replace scholarships.
in writing. − the eu's various mobility programmes are very popular, offering the chance to study and work in other countries. the impact on european citizens is many-sided and above all very positive (personal development of young people, foreign languages, mobility, etc.). transnational cooperation between institutions is encouraged. in times of high youth unemployment, investment in the youth sector must be given priority. for this reason, it is essential that the budget for this project be increased. the budget line for youth, as requested by the rapporteur, is also very welcome. the social partners should also be involved in the work of the programme committee.
in writing. − europe needs to invest more in the cultural and creative industries. it continuously generates further growth, employment and innovation and is proven to increase the creative 'social product' of society. the programme aims to preserve europe's cultural and linguistic diversity and to strengthen the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries. in a europe ravaged by economic recession, the creative sector has nonetheless been able to show growth rates in recent years. there is still potential here. the 'creative europe' is the fusion of the two successful 'media' and 'culture' programmes and can help thousands of artists and cultural professionals to open up new audiences, markets and international opportunities. additional financial support is provided for artists wishing to work across borders and for transnational cultural activities. private financing is also to be facilitated by guarantees. the aim is to strengthen europe's competitiveness in the field of culture and cinema. our creative industries are therefore encouraged to apply for the specific project grants and to take advantage of the opportunities available.
in writing. − the promotion of culture and creativity is an important aspect of preserving european identity. the report suggests that this should be done more effectively through support at european level. at the same time, i think it is right to stress that the diversity of european culture is its greatest strength. i therefore cannot understand why the support of central european institutions should be of any benefit here, when it is precisely decentralization that has led to our diverse cultural landscape. i have voted against the report because of this fundamental logical inconsistency.
in writing. − the report on the creative europe programme is particularly welcome with regard to the cross-sectoral fields of action. these create a transition between the cultural sector and the audiovisual sector. in particular, women should also be supported and promoted in the cultural field. transnational cooperation in this field should also be strengthened.
in writing. − the objective of the 'citizens' programme' is to increase citizen participation at eu level. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the citizens' initiative, for example, is not legally obliged to take action. the commission's latest attempt to restrict the decision-making power of the european parliament - the only directly elected eu body - in the so-called 'for the citizens' programme is particularly strange! after that, parliament could only accept or reject the text but not make any amendments! whether through delegated acts or, as in this case, through a change in the legal basis, the commission is constantly seeking to extend its powers. the independence of a central and abstract bureaucracy which is expensive and distant from the citizen! that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - the report is not yet acceptable in the circumstances. article 352 tfeu alone is hardly a sufficient legal basis as it does not allow for amendments. a dual legal basis (in combination with article 167) is desirable insofar as it highlights the common cultural heritage of the european union, while respecting national and regional diversity.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility serves as a tool for the growth and competitiveness of the european union at global level, while also enabling a synergy of energy, transport and telecommunications technologies, offering more opportunities for participation by individual states and, in particular, for more remote areas and regions, better external connections.
in writing. the report on the development of the transeuropean transport networks, the ten-t programme, supports the competitiveness of individual member states in the european internal market and strengthens the infrastructure in the countries concerned. the greatest possible transparency and strong involvement of citizens will drive forward projects with the greatest possible mutual benefit.
in writing. - this commission proposal is very welcome, since it is based on the principle of de-bureaucratisation. the interests of the european parliament are well represented by the rapporteur, particularly in his proposal to limit the duration of the delegation of power to the commission to five years. the report is to be adopted subject to the acceptance of this amendment.
in writing. − the ignalina (lithuania), kosloduj (bulgaria) and bohunice (slovakia) nuclear power plants are nuclear reactors which the international community has concluded are too outdated and cannot be cost-effectively upgraded to meet the minimum safety requirements. since the member states concerned have committed themselves to shutting down these nuclear reactors in the context of the accession negotiations, but premature shutdown would represent a long-term burden for the citizens of those countries, the commission, together with the european parliament, wishes to provide the necessary financial and professional resources to ensure a smooth shutdown. as austria is virtually surrounded by nuclear power stations and i am firmly opposed to both the construction and maintenance of old nuclear power stations in the eu, i welcome this proposal and have therefore voted in favour of it.
that was more of a comment than a question. you still want to answer?
i note that the commissioner has noted the question and may then deal with it in his reply.
ladies and gentlemen, the blue card is not for commenting, it is for asking the speaker a question. i ask you to abide by it.
it's hard for me to say thank you now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i hear that there is a lack of solidarity in europe, i want to ask: who is to blame for the tens of billions of dollars that we have paid in the last decades to certain countries - i am not even counting them all now because i do not have time to speak? and then we have to be accused of lack of solidarity? if in these countries the efficiency of administration cannot be achieved, then it is not the fault of the net contributors who pay the money there, but it is the fault of those governments which the people themselves elected. it is therefore high time that we tried to ensure that those who pay also use the funds properly and do not disappear into mafia channels, misappropriate them or use them in a way that is not targeted, as mr stoyanov has said. what the commissioners are doing now is an attempt to achieve this. we'll see if that works. i am optimistic and will therefore be voting in favour of this proposal. but it is a legitimate attempt to ensure that what the council has been criticizing for years and days is finally implemented and that there is effective control.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a tyrolean, i am particularly pleased that we austrians are so strongly represented here today - with you, mr othmar karas, and with the commissioner responsible, mr johannes hahn - and above all that we have a group of visitors from the övp-tyrol in the visitor's line today. it almost looks like this is all a setup, but it's a coincidence. they're here on a fact-finding mission. i am particularly pleased that this decision on the regional funds, which we are due to adopt tomorrow - there are 325 billion euros available here - includes this macro-regional approach for the first time. we have adopted here in this house a few months ago the macro-regional strategy for the alpine region, which is of course very dear to me and which now guarantees that funds are also available for this. it is also particularly important for tourism that in countries such as my home country of tyrol, tourism has been included as an eligible category. we know that this is a field that is growing very fast and some regions have been very focused on it. thirdly, we have also included mountain regions as eligible categories. this is particularly important for these mountainous regions. fourthly, we are once again increasing the resources for territorial cooperation by 30%. i think that europe is particularly important here. these are the right signals for the future that we can send here from the european parliament together with the member states.
i thank you very much, mr president, but i have not yet taken the time to welcome the group of visitors.
the commission has already done so. the cohesion fund the history of cohesion policy is a success story of the european union. it was created to reduce the wealth gap in europe and has been very successful in many areas. i am afraid that the macroeconomic conditionality now envisaged is contrary to this project in many respects. we have 70% of the funds available for the poorest regions, which is about 25% of the eu territory. we have another 30% for the rest of europe. i would like to take a brief look at the success story of austria, what has happened here in the last decades: since austria's accession in 1995, some eur 200 million has flowed to austria annually through european structural fund projects. we have doubled our export share from about 30% to 58% because in other regions of europe quality of life has been created, because in other regions of europe jobs have been created and thus purchasing power. and this purchasing power has also had a positive effect on austria, a rich member state. i have great hope that this future cohesion and structural programme will continue this success story, if we do not use instruments such as macroeconomic conditionality.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the committee on women's rights and the committee on legal affairs worked closely together after several meetings of shadow rapporteurs and with the involvement of a wide range of stakeholders. we talked to a lot of people involved. we have voted with the committees which have delivered their opinions. so we really talked to a lot of people who were affected. the report we are now presenting is well founded. it is realistic and goes beyond the commission's proposal. firstly, we need a binding regulation to ensure that we have a balanced ratio of men and women on supervisory boards, among non-executive directors. the european countries which have already introduced binding rules are particularly successful - france, for example, or the shining example of norway, which we have repeatedly cited. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union. it has been improved and refined many times since the treaty of rome and is therefore an important basis for us. we also need good european corporate governance and more diversity, gender diversity, if we are to counteract all these bouts of greed that we have seen with the financial crisis. this regulation that we lack, so this element of gender diversity can and should help to change the standard thinking patterns accordingly and to break the old boys' networks. now for the substance: we want to increase the proportion of the underrepresented sex to 40% by 2020. that is what the commission proposal says. we want to do this through a sort of procedural quota, by shedding more light on the issues, by using transparent selection procedures and by applying qualification criteria from the outset. so now, when headhunting firms are employed or commissioned, this principle should be a thread running through the whole process. i mentioned it before: it is about breaking down the old boys' networks, where more or less men who have the same suit tastes, the same socio-cultural background, some of the same corporate ideas, ultimately dominate the action on the supervisory board. that's not good for business. so the point of these procedures is that they are good for women, but they are also good for men - if we apply these objective criteria - so they are good for the quality of the supervisory boards and therefore they are good for companies! the commission's proposal is now being exceeded in its scope. the commission proposal provides that all listed companies should apply the same rules, with the exception of small and medium-sized enterprises and those with a share of less than 10%, where the under-represented sex is concerned, i.e. de facto women. we're going beyond that. small and medium-sized enterprises are still excluded. i regret this personally, because these are enterprises which can be quite large - 250 employees, for example. but that is not politically feasible at the moment. that means we'll leave it at that. we are not going to allow any exceptions. and that's good, because it expands the scope. it is not just a question of whether women can carry cement bags, for example, but whether they can do a good job on supervisory boards, read financial statements, do their job. accordingly, we need not take account of the 10% clause for the criterion of its not being justified in substance. a word about the family businesses. i am very sympathetic to family businesses, but there is no useful definition at european level, not even in the national states. it is therefore not justified to exclude them from the scope of the regulation, especially when one considers that the biggest companies - i am thinking of lego, for example, or many other large companies - are excluded and that the whole scheme cannot be particularly effective in itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. the penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. and so, of course, the member states are cordially invited to go beyond that. there are no limits to the imagination. we have a provision for excluding public procurement and for excluding access to the structural funds. in short, we have remained realistic. we have tried not to reach for the stars - i would very much like to do that - by taking on the boards, for example. but we can do that in a next step. it is now time to appeal to the council in particular - which is unfortunately not here, as i see it - to take this matter much more seriously!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank commissioner reding for her really good proposal. i would like to focus on one aspect, namely the question of the binding nature of the proposals. my experience over the last 30 years is that we've put a lot of faith in commitment. and none of that worked! the growth in the proportion of women on boards is extremely slow. the means we have chosen is, first, transparency to prevent nepotism and, of course, to prevent the dominance of the old boys' networks. this transparency also benefits men outside these networks, and this must be made clear. secondly, fairness. all women need is a chance to show off their skills and walk through the door. if they're in, they'll have to prove themselves anyway. no one's gonna take that away from them. and i trust that they can. those women who have made it have proven that. step three: scientific evidence shows that mixed teams perform significantly better than single-sex teams. we should bear this in mind, because our companies are the ones who essentially decide how our economy functions. the council is now being asked to finally take the decisive step and do what it is called upon to do. we need women's quotas urgently!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask my colleague whether she is not aware that there are a great many golden men on 15 boards, or whether this is a phenomenon that is taking place in countries with which she is not so familiar. because the accumulation of power is ultimately a much more masculine than feminine element. that was my question to her, because i don't see that this is a specifically female phenomenon and an argument against giving women the chance to showcase their talents with this regulation at all.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, permit me just to give a short answer to a specific question because, in general, i do agree with the vast majority of the speakers in this house. one question was asked about what we are doing regarding quotas and equal representation in our administrations. i can only speak here for the administration which is mine, for the european commission. one third of the commissioners, 33 %, are female, which is the best gender balance ever in the commission. we do have quotas in our administration. we have 33 % for middle management and 25 % for top management. the targets had already been met by 2012, so now we are setting the quotas higher. you have to ask the other institutions the same question and you also have to ask your governments and your national parliaments the same question. coming to the conclusions of this debate, we have seen that, despite a few voluntary initiatives at national and european level, the situation has not changed significantly in recent years. tangible progress is the exception, not the rule, and progress only becomes really strongly visible in countries which have had quota laws for some time. and who has to bear the burden? our society and our economies – because gender equality at work is not only a women’s issue: it is a business issue. it is an economic imperative. in these times of economic difficulty when we face the joint challenges of an ageing population, of falling birth rates, of skills shortages, it is more important than ever to ensure that we capitalise on the richness of human talent and skills irrespective of gender. at the heart of the proposal lies a transparent selection process aiming to reach a 40 % representation of the under-represented sex by 2020 based on clear criteria and the candidates’ skills and qualifications. the reasoning is simple. no woman will get a job simply because she is a woman. however, no woman will be denied a job any more simply because she is a woman, as is happening today. this should be a fair deal both for the business world and for women, who have the same right to pursue careers as men. so in your vote tomorrow, dear members, you have this possibility. let us stop the waste of talent and the waste of resources. let us stop denying equal chances to equally-qualified women, and let us finally crack the glass ceiling.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. mrs niebler referred to the legal basis. i would like to refer to it again briefly. it is true that we have had a heated debate on the legal basis, but we have not made it easy for ourselves, but have used existing ec case law. we have reached the same conclusion as the commission. the commission and the european parliament are in agreement on this. obviously some countries do not want the european parliament to have a say in this. i think that, and i think that the decision of the legal affairs committee has made that decision very clear. some meps have stressed the need to give greater priority to reconciling work and family life. there is no doubt that this is necessary. however, there are countries, such as sweden, which have wonderful childcare facilities, and yet access to the supervisory board is too difficult. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mrs yannakoudakis has clearly spoken out against a procedural quota. i'm surprised at you. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. obviously, there are different approaches here, when it is more or less about oneself or the principle. finally, i hope that tomorrow we will have a strong vote in this european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken so much for their commitment. i hope that this cooperation will enable us to achieve a really clear vote in the plenary tomorrow!
in writing. the report clearly describes the problems posed by the three seats of the parliament. in addition to the cost of €200 million, which represents around 10% of the parliament's budget, commuting is a major environmental burden and severely limits the work of members. it would lead to a great increase in the productivity of parliament's work to concentrate its seat in brussels, as other institutions have shown. i have always been in favour of bringing the european parliament together in brussels and i support this report. times have changed. the parliament used to have 78 members, but now there are 766, a large majority of whom want a seat in brussels. i think france must finally realise that it is damaging to the image of the eu to continue to sit in strasbourg. people do not understand that every month 15 million euros are spent because 3000 people have to make the pilgrimage to strasbourg. i am campaigning for reducing the number of seats to one to put an end to this waste of money and pollution. i think it is also our duty, not only as members of this parliament but also as convinced democrats, to call for the strengthening and greater autonomy of parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr fox and mr häfner have presented their reports in very clear, very understandable, very comprehensible terms. so i 'll tell you what . the role of the european parliament has changed considerably since the founding treaties. it started with 78 members, now it's 766 members who commute. the cost of the 435 km journey of 6 000 people once or twice a month is between eur 156 and 204 million, or about 19% of the european parliament's annual budget. and the co2 emissions are 11,000 to 19,000 tons, depending on where you're from. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the european parliament is the only directly elected body which cannot decide its own seat. it is therefore high time that this was changed! i fully support this report and i would like to make a small suggestion to mr tarand: you have not mentioned the beautiful city of vienna, in the heart of europe and easily accessible!
in writing. the report clearly describes the problems posed by the three seats of the parliament. in addition to the cost of €200 million, which represents around 10% of the parliament's budget, commuting is a major environmental burden and severely limits the work of members. it would lead to a great increase in the productivity of parliament's work to concentrate its seat in brussels, as other institutions have shown. i have always been in favour of bringing the european parliament together in brussels and i support this report. times have changed. the parliament used to have 78 members, but now there are 766, a large majority of whom want a seat in brussels. i think france must finally realise that it is damaging to the image of the eu to continue to sit in strasbourg. people do not understand that every month 15 million euros are spent because 3000 people have to make the pilgrimage to strasbourg. i am campaigning for reducing the number of seats to one to put an end to this waste of money and pollution. i think it is also our duty, not only as members of this parliament but also as convinced democrats, to call for the strengthening and greater autonomy of parliament.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr scholz, i have a question about the facilitation of trade for small and mediumsized enterprises. do you see an opportunity here to break the single undertaking and open up opportunities on both sides for small and mediumsized enterprises to enable them to do business in small sizes as well? what are the prospects for the doha round?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the doha negotiations are on the finish line. we are anxiously awaiting the final stage of the long-running doha round. in the past few days, director-general azevêdo has made clear to the member states that it is all or nothing and that we are too close to the goal to fail now. the negotiators at the 9th ministerial conference in bali must finally lay the final rails towards the destination station. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we need a conclusion, and bali and geneva must be the final pieces of the puzzle to complete the wto picture. in the face of global economic challenges, a functioning multilateral trading system is essential. we need a common framework which enables industrialized, emerging and developing countries to develop economically and trade on fair and equal terms. a multilateral trade framework must take precedence over bilateral agreements. the focus must clearly be on the conclusion of the doha negotiations and not on a pooling of bilateral and regional trade agreements. despite the great importance of such agreements as a complementary instrument, this would be a step backwards in the doha process. bali will show whether wto member states have the commitment and courage to take the right steps towards a strong wto. the european parliament is behind this project!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are faced with one of the most important decisions in the next few months. we are concerned with overcoming the crisis in europe and with working to create the conditions in the future which will enable our economy to generate the income necessary to ensure a secure future in europe. the key question is therefore: will it be possible to take multilateral agreements forward and conclude them at international level? or do we want to get stuck in details and not make progress? i think that concludes the doha round. the crucial thing is that we conclude the doha round in december. it doesn't have to be in the single undertaking. i believe that what has been successfully negotiated so far should also be implemented. and if we do fail, then a post-doha agenda is necessary. and that is what we have to define!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not thank you, mrs tiçau. my question is: do you think that the new satellite navigation system will also bring more data security to european data?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is very important that this new technology should also give a chance to small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, first as suppliers to the system and then, of course, in the use of the system. the use concepts for this new system are therefore extremely important, because of course this could also form a strong export component and europe could position itself here as a global supplier of precise precise technology in a completely new quality standard. i congratulate the rapporteur on this new development and, in particular, the commission on having seized these opportunities for the european economy and for new jobs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in the financial crisis, many retail investors suffered financial losses because the financial products offered were too confusing and misleadingly labelled. false labels have often been used to deliberately mislead consumers. complexity is not a quality mark either. taking the opacity out of financial products and bringing them back closer to people is the most important thing people expect from us after the crisis. the possibility of misleading consumers must be prevented in all circumstances. the investment product key information sheets regulation is therefore an urgently needed measure to increase transparency, as it requires providers of financial investment products to provide product information that also allows comparisons. the regulation is the first piece of legislation to protect retail investors since the introduction of a deposit guarantee up to eur 100 000 in 2010. the proposal will protect small investors from risky and opaque investment products and ensure that consumers are better informed in their investment decisions. i hope that an agreement will soon be reached in the trilogue. and i think that people should expect that before the european parliament elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all know that trust in the financial markets among retail investors plummeted a few years ago and has not recovered until now. the european parliament is making a clear commitment to greater consumer protection and information by voting tomorrow. this regulation and the european parliament's proposals will help to increase transparency in this area, to increase information for potential retail investors and thus their readiness to invest again, and to strengthen confidence in the financial markets. it is important to me that we see the whole package and that we keep in mind the coherence of the regulatory framework. consistency with the insurance brokerage directive, with ucits v and with mifid ii, which regulates the conditions for product authorisations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of investors are respected. that is why i understand my predecessor. we are against the overloading of the information sheets with a lot of information that is hard to keep track of. investors must not find themselves in a situation where they can no longer see the forest for the trees. the more bureaucracy, the narrower the framework, the less bureaucracy, the wider the framework! this is the only way to ensure the best possible information for consumers and the greatest possible protection for investors. information, not bureaucracy, is what builds trust!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard some words of praise today and some criticism. of course, what is here is better than what we have at the moment. but it's miles away from what we could have had. when the first proposal was put to us, i was disappointed in the environment committee with what was put forward. i am now doubly disappointed with what is before us today for decision following the negotiations with parliament and the council. why would you do that? we would have had the chance to achieve what the agricultural reform is about, namely to ensure food production in europe, to create the best, highest quality and to allow farmers in all parts of europe to have a biodiversity in their farming. we have not sufficiently exploited all these opportunities. we have the possibilities of subsidies which in reality only promote area, size and mass and not quality, so that what parliament wanted, and what you wanted, namely capping, is not achieved. we have not achieved the priority areas which we really know would be 10% needed to take account of the ecology and, above all, the biodiversity of europe, the biodiversity strategy, and here i am really hurt by the words of my colleague, mr deiss, who said that we would only need 3%. i would ask you to ensure that in the negotiations with the member states, where we have been given a great deal of latitude, these priority areas which remain are not also subject to the use of pesticides.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that rural development programmes are the future programmes of the common agricultural policy. our agri-environment programmes are actually in line with society's desire for more environmental services and they are targeted. they take account of regional conditions and provide an incentive for farmers to implement additional environmental requirements. the same applies to support for organic farming. society is demanding more products from organic farming. the common agricultural policy supports this desire. however, parliament was able to negotiate that those member states with a strong focus on the second pillar programmes should be able to count environmental intermediate consumption on the greening measures. i think this is a very crucial and important point, because it is also a question of avoiding and preventing bureaucracy wherever possible. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of farmers' associations. the common agricultural policy must continue to be a commitment to productive agriculture in all regions. and we've also managed to maintain a strong focus on quality programs. this is where regional information and promotion activities for the products are supported. opportunities for diversification, investment, new risk measures and innovation partnerships round off this comprehensive package of measures. rural development programmes are primarily programmes designed to strengthen the agricultural sector and its upstream and downstream sectors. it is important to exploit the potential of the entire value chain to guarantee supply, safeguard jobs, preserve the cultural landscape and counteract structural change in the countryside. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rural areas need our support, they need investment to be sustainable!
in writing. the most recent reform of the common agricultural policy, which was widely heralded, has not been reduced to a single reform. it should be clear that the subsidies for large landowners must be radically reduced. instead of compensating for the labour and management difficulties, the maxim 'a lot of land, a lot of money' is retained. the continuing mass death of peasants is in turn weakening the rural regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our farmers are not getting any benefit from rising food prices. the cost pressure exerted by the retail chains is constantly increasing. the trend of companies to reduce price margins to organic products is also a cause for concern, as the rise in non-chemically treated products is accelerating. decades of mismanagement have made the eu's agricultural policy simply unreformable. that is why new ways must be found. the need for re-nationalisation of agricultural policy is urgent. the member states are much better placed to assess where the priorities should be, the eu budget could be drastically reduced and, last but not least, an important contribution could be made to the reduction of the central bureaucracy in brussels.
in writing. − the draft general budget of the eu for 2014 provides for investments in the various central and decentralised eu institutions and bodies, which are made under the budgetary procedure. we are not talking about a single currency, but about a single currency. secondly, it promotes agencies and projects which i do not think are of benefit to the eu, and, above all, the expenditure in this budget is being made too rashly in times of economic crisis. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report. i was waiting for the interpretation of the italian chairmen because of a faulty headset and i learned too late that the vote had already been taken.
in writing. − while the budget for 2014 is more than 6% less than this year's, what is very worrying is the fact that it is already clear that the council has once again committed more than it can pay. the planned payments amount to €135.5 billion and the commitments to €142.6 billion. we are not allowed to contract debts the possibility ("risk") that we will need "fresh money" in the summer of next year is unfortunately not to be ruled out today.
in writing. − the flexibility instrument, created in 2006, allows for the financing of eur 200 million each year that cannot otherwise be made available in the respective financial years. if part of the amount is not used, it may be carried over to the following two years. for the financial year 2014, part of the flexibility instrument is to be mobilised to increase the financing of the cypriot structural funds programmes by eur 78 million. i abstained because i think that other options should also be thoroughly examined before the flexibility fund is used.
in writing. − the amending budget provides for a financial allocation of around eur 400 million to the member states austria, germany, the czech republic and romania for the solidarity fund. the reason why these countries have requested support from this fund is that germany, austria and the czech republic experienced severe floods in spring 2013 and that forest fires broke out in romania due to the drought. this has had a major impact on the member states and their regions. i welcome any financial aid to the regions concerned and therefore support the motion.
in writing. − i voted in favor of this report, as it will mobilize funds for people in need. these financial means should be seen as an aid measure and as help for our citizens in times of crisis and after a period of heavy rainfalls and other unforeseen natural disasters. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. − due to the devastating floods in spring 2013 in germany, austria and the czech republic, and the drought and resulting forest fires in romania in summer 2013, the above-mentioned members requested financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund. after careful examination of the applications and the financial resources to be raised from them, an amount of some eur 400 million is to be made available. the regional development committee (regi) should be involved in this process in order to provide constructive support for the investment of this amount. the european union is supposed to be a solidarity partner to other member states, particularly in the event of natural disasters, and these are aid measures which will make it much easier for the regions concerned to rebuild.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it will mobilise funds for people in need. these financial means should be seen as an aid measure and as help for our citizens in times of crisis and after a period of heavy rainfalls and other unforeseen natural disasters. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe.
in writing. − i voted in favor of this report as the funds mobilised will reach our people in need, our european citizens. the use of these funds could be seen as an aid measure for europe’s inhabitants. generally, the european union financing instruments – the european social fund (esf) and the flexibility instruments – are financing instruments that help to balance and amend more efficiently ceilings under the initial financial planning of the european union, for events that could not be foreseen. the esf is europe’s main instrument for supporting jobs, helping people get better jobs and ensuring fairer job opportunities for all eu citizens. it works by investing in europe’s human capital. the flexibility instrument provides funding in a given financial year for clearly identified expenses which could not be covered by one or more budget headings without exceeding their expenditure ceilings.
in writing. − ensure the eu's competitiveness in the global satellite navigation sector. the share of european industry in the world market is small. the basis for this market is provided mainly by simple position and time signals. some 75% of the market shares are in telecommunications services, 20% in intelligent road transport systems and 5% in other applications. in addition, egnos and galileo applications contribute to the creation of quality jobs, growth and the knowledge society, and make the eu independent of us or chinese systems in the long term. if the member states do not act, the market could be taken over by third parties, which would lead to economic problems: an estimated 6% of european gdp depends on gnss applications! a european gnss can be a positive instrument to support external and internal policies. the report has my vote, because it is questionable whether the eu can afford not to participate in this new market. research and innovation are being taken to a new level here. the benefits to citizens are increasing, but so too is the risk of permanent surveillance at eu level.
in writing. − the galileo programme and its system, as well as the egnos system, are two important steps in the european satellite navigation policy. the achievement of the objective of the galileo programme, the establishment of a global satellite navigation system (gnss) under civilian control, which should be independent of other systems, is desirable and to be welcomed. the need for a european navigation system is due to the current dependence on american gps and russian glonass satellite signals. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. in addition, a functioning european satellite navigation system is a prerequisite for many other eu programmes. that is why this programme can be supported without reservations and i have voted accordingly.
in writing. - the objectives set by the rapporteur as priorities are in any case to be welcomed. a satellite navigation system independent of large non-member countries and under civilian control, capable of providing high-quality services throughout europe, will ultimately benefit our citizens. the role these schemes will play for smes is particularly important and the rapporteur intends to pay particular attention to this sector of the economy. in any case, i agree that delays, cost explosions and the loss of potential benefits must be avoided as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - the report is welcome as it supports a country which is in financial difficulty due to various circumstances and can thus provide economic recovery. the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights is equally important.
in writing. − the chemical production of synthetic drugs requires so-called drug precursors, the acquisition and trade of which is perfectly legal. trade within the eu is now to be controlled more closely and a framework for surveillance has been created. legal exports of the 23 drug precursors concerned amounted to at least eur 4.48 million in 2012. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the gulf. cooperation between the two eu and russian contracting parties is based on mutual assistance. it is agreed that the exporting country shall declare the export, whereupon the importing country may object to the import within a period of three weeks. the agreement will be concluded for an initial period of five years. i voted for the report because i agree with the rapporteur that it is also necessary to combat drug trafficking at international level by all means. i believe that only bilateral agreements will be able to bring trade under control in the long term.
in writing. − europol is an eu-wide police organisation whose purpose is to assist member states in preventing and combating serious forms of international crime. this applies only to cases involving organised crime and involving two or more member states. at a practical level, europol's main tasks are to promote the exchange of data between member states and to provide expertise in crime analysis and technical assistance. in order to fulfil its mission, europol works with sensitive personal data and is therefore subject to strict data protection guidelines. in order to carry out its work correctly and well, it is essential that europol maintain relations with third countries. consequently, the list of third countries with which agreements will be concluded will be gradually extended, as has just been done by brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − it is appropriate to start negotiations with third countries or third organisations only after the entry into force of the new europol regulation. it is also essential to be able to ensure an adequate level of data protection, both in terms of privacy and personal data protection.
in writing. − research is an important economic sector that promotes innovation and also creates jobs. ideally, research should not be confined to national borders but should be promoted internationally and also in and with non-european countries.
in writing. - i voted for the compromise on the european funds because it is extremely important that the programmes can actually start at the beginning of next year. unfortunately, the procedure did not allow a vote on the amendment tabled by the socialist group which would have fixed the minimum contribution of the european social fund to the total fund at 25%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it is crucial for those countries most affected by these problems that funds can flow as planned from 2014 and not much later, if a new compromise had been found.
in writing. − i am pleased that we have managed to maintain substantial funding for the regions of the european union with a focus on development projects and equity in decision-making, as well as reducing red tape on the acquisition of funds. i supported the proposal that the five separate funds - the european regional development fund, the social fund, the cohesion fund, the maritime and fisheries fund and the agricultural fund for rural development - be governed by common rules in the new programming period. the new common strategic framework with a single management of the five main eu regional funds simplifies the procedures for raising funds. under the new rules, investments will be concentrated in a small number of sectors directly linked to the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 global growth strategy. the latvian beneficiaries will now be able to focus more on the implementation and impact of programmes and projects, with less worry about administrative formalities. it is also very important that projects will be able to attract funding from several funds at the same time.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to make more effective use of available funding and to encourage innovation. the reforms are designed to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and boost competitiveness.
in writing. − the european social fund (esf) is the european union's main financial instrument to support employment measures in the member states and to promote economic and social cohesion. the esf's expenditure amounts to around 10% of the eu's total budget. the esf is one of the eu's structural funds, which are used to improve social cohesion and economic development in the regions of the union. it is clear that it is essential to take measures to strengthen the labour markets of the individual member states to the extent that they are able to reduce unemployment significantly. nevertheless, i believe that simplified access to the esf could risk misuse of the fund. in my view, even if the rules and procedures are simplified, it must still be possible to ensure that any abuse can be excluded. i have voted against this report because it does not make this clear.
in writing. the report deals specifically with the concept of thematic concentration and the strengthening of urban dimensions. the aim of better channelling the areas of use of financial resources is to achieve more efficient and sustainable support. the simplified investment framework also allows for better coordination of the funds, which creates benefits in many areas: infrastructure, the environment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, the balancing of the level of development of the different regions.
in writing. − the european regional development fund (erdf) will provide significant funding to strengthen crossborder cooperation. this is important from the point of view of latvia, as many problems can be solved by joint efforts with our neighbours - the other countries of the baltic sea region. in the 2007-2013 programming period, latvia has already participated in 10 european territorial cooperation programmes, eight of which were funded directly by the erdf. one such programme is the latvian-lithuanian programme with a total funding of eur 60 million. it has already implemented more than 116 projects involving some 600 project partners in latvia and lithuania. such programmes make a concrete contribution to the development of border regions, making them more competitive and attractive for living and tourism. i voted in favour of this report, which will make it much easier to implement crossborder projects in the future. for the first time, territorial cooperation is given a common framework - a separate regulation that will bring much greater clarity to many inter-country programmes. it will also ensure that the baltic sea region strategy receives support from national and regional programmes. it will help to solve common problems and reduce administrative, legal and physical barriers between the baltic sea states.
in writing. - it appears that some of the european regional development fund's resources will also be used for non-european countries, including initiatives on better regulation and crossborder cooperation. it also emphasises the diversity of actors involved in european territorial cooperation, which is a good insight on the author's part, but would make efficient cooperation at european level difficult.
in writing. − the european union cohesion fund finances projects that make sense, because they are designed to promote both the environment and integration into trans-european transport networks. in many cases, however, non-economic structures are supported by billions of taxpayers' money, thus preventing any sensible restructuring. there is also widespread fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although i am generally in favour of certain things, i voted against this proposal in this case.
in writing. − cohesion fund funds are particularly important for latvia, as they will be used to invest in the construction of the ten-t transport network and environmental protection. unfortunately, the cohesion fund will only receive a total of €68.7 billion over the next seven years, which is less than the current programming period (€71 billion). the connecting europe facility (cef) is allocated eur 10 billion of this amount. although the european parliament had repeatedly stressed that the amounts allocated to cohesion policy should be maintained at least at the same level as in the current financial programming period, negotiations with the eu council failed to achieve this. latvia, together with lithuania, estonia and hungary, at least managed to increase the 'deficits' earmarked for cohesion funding: while for the other member states they were reduced (2,35% 2,5% of gdp), for us they were increased from 2,5% to 2,59% of gdp. in other words, the reduction could have been even greater. however, i voted in favour of this report because it is important to start the collection of funds at the beginning of next year. it is important for latvia that the cohesion fund objective has been extended to include support for energy efficiency measures and renewable energy in the housing sector. similar rules were already in place for public infrastructure and companies. support for high-efficiency district heating and for cogeneration of heat and electricity is also identified as a priority.
in writing. − the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1084/2006 appears to be a significant step forward in the fields of environmental protection and sustainable energy. the report emphasises that improving transport infrastructure in the inner european area is an important component of sustainable urban development. the new provisions are mainly aimed at implementing the europe 2020 strategy: the efforts to promote private sector support for renewable energy and energy efficiency thus put environmental protection at the forefront.
in writing. the report discusses administrative improvements in relation to the european association for territorial cooperation. the authorisation procedures will be simplified considerably. the legal situation of the members will also be reviewed with a view to putting an end to any unlawful or arbitrary interpretation of the legal situation. the role of third countries as members of the european association for territorial cooperation is also explained. finally, the amendment of the regulation leads to an improvement on several levels and to a raising of awareness of the potential of the european association for territorial cooperation as a tool for general territorial cooperation.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a directive on ensuring a better balance between the representation of women and men on the non-executive/supervisory boards of listed companies sets the objective of achieving a minimum of 40% of women and 40% of men on the management boards of listed companies in the eu by 2020. the exception for smes was maintained. the commission had proposed this point and the epp group and i personally strongly support it. however, it is important to urge member states to establish strategies to support and incentivise smes in order to ensure a more balanced representation of women and men at all management levels and on company boards. listed companies in all sectors should meet the target set by the directive because of their importance for the economy and their responsibility for the economy and society. we have therefore voted to abolish the derogation for companies in which the proportion of female employees is less than 10%.
in writing. - there is still a gender imbalance in the labour market. the proportion of women in management positions in listed companies is significantly lower than that of men. the proposed legal framework aims to increase the proportion of women in management positions in listed companies to 40% by 2020. since the mechanisms have varied from one member state to another, a uniform system would be a massive change in national practices. i voted against the report because i believe that a quota system adopted by the legislator is not conducive to the success of companies. i believe that every company should be able to choose not by gender but by qualifications. i am also convinced that we must eliminate much more fundamental inequalities, such as the disparity in pay for equal work between men and women, which is still a problem in most european countries.
in writing. - mandatory quotas to ensure a balanced representation of women and men among the non-executive directors and the supervisory board of listed companies are a correct and important step towards the actual achievement of equal opportunities regardless of gender. the european union is founded on the principle of equality between its citizens and must live up to this vision.
in writing. − i welcome this report as part of the reform package for the common european agricultural policy post-2013. the cap is a framework for european agriculture that guarantees consumers safe food. as a community policy area, it is important to have targeted and uniform management and control mechanisms throughout europe. the aim of reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens was successfully pursued by parliament in the negotiations on this report. many simplifications have been achieved and more restraint will be applied in the future.
in writing. the european union's common agricultural policy (cap) is a testament to the brussels central bureaucracy's bankruptcy through miscalculation and misinvestment. not only because the common agricultural policy promotes the death of farmers in the various regions of the eu through its policies, but also because it sets high standards for farmers but fails to live up to them (see horse meat scandal), it must be rejected. instead of adopting a centralised approach to agricultural policy, the aim is to encourage renationalisation in this area, as this will enable the member states or regions to better assess where the priorities should be in this area. it is for these reasons that i have rejected the proposal.
in writing. − this will ensure a more competitive environment for the farmers within the countries of the european union. we have to encourage and promote a better and more efficient use of our own resources in order to make the european agricultural and farm sector more competitive. the development of agriculture in europe has to be carried out in a balanced manner that will create sustainable jobs and offer more efficient and comprehensive assistance to ‘simple farmers’ about funding tools and instruments that could help them in the future in order to become more competitive.
in writing. − packaged retail investment products (prips) are at the core of the retail investment market. they are products that contain an element of packaging or wrapping to an underlying investment opportunity, including shares, bonds, and other assets. statistics mention that prips make up a market in europe worth up to eur 10 trillion. these are the investment products retail investors would typically be offered by their bank when they want to make an investment, for example to save for retirement or some other target like buying a house or paying for their children’s education. i voted in favour of the amended commission proposal, as i believe that european citizens and consumers should rebuild their trust in the financial markets and at the same time they should be protected when buying financial products (for example insurance products). another important element is the key investor information document (kiid). the kiid should provide the retail investor with an adequate base for making his investment decision. however, before the final investment decision is taken, the investor may need to read the detailed and comprehensive information contained in the prospectus and contractual basis. therefore, it must be possible to have references in the kiid. in the end, the rapporteur asked for a negotiating mandate for a trialogue.
in writing. - the rural development programmes are for me the future programmes of the common european agricultural fund. these programmes allow member states to tailor packages of measures to the needs of their farmers and the demands of their consumers, and agri-environment programmes, for example, respond to the 'social desire for cap reform' to increase environmental performance. they are targeted, take account of regional conditions and encourage farmers to implement additional eco-labels. the bio programmes are a key element of the second pillar. the natura 2000 site or sustainable forest management will preserve valuable recreational areas. parliament was able to negotiate that member states, with a strong focus on the second pillar programmes, should be credited with environmental priorities. parliament also won on many other points: in future, all member states will have to implement these agrienvironment programmes - natura 2000 and bio-measures. the importance of agriculture in less-favoured areas and in mountain areas was overcome. the whole food value chain is being strengthened! i welcome these measures to strengthen rural areas.
in writing. - i supported this report on the common organisation of agricultural markets as the cornerstone of european agricultural policy. parliament was able to highlight the importance of market mechanisms for the competitiveness of european producers and took a clear position in favour of maintaining existing, well-established market mechanisms. the result is a compromise which i support in the interests of continuity and planning certainty.
in writing. - i am voting for this report because it is a clear commitment to the continuation of a strong european agricultural policy. the cap must meet the future challenges facing agriculture and rural areas and the objectives set out in the founding documents of the european union. the cap must guarantee the food supply of the population by increasing agricultural productivity. the objectives of the cap post-2013 remain sustainable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, climate action and a balanced territorial cohesion. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
in writing. − given that it will be impossible for the cap reform to enter into force on 1 january 2014, the commission has put forward a legislative proposal to ensure that the cap measures can be continued in 2014 and that a smooth transition to the new system is ensured. i support the amendments which parliament has made to the commission's proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it also underlines the need to reduce the administrative burden on farmers and local authorities and to allow member states to transfer payments to smaller farms as from 2014.
in writing. − transitional provisions on rural development are highly desirable in view of the new challenges in this area, the flexibility gained and the longer period of adaptation for individual member states and authorities. the european union is not only an economic area but also an agricultural area which must be promoted for cultural, economic and political reasons.
in writing. - i welcome the additional allocation of €150 million to the european social fund (esf) to help france, italy and spain in particular to cope with the challenges and effects of the crisis. the funds provided are also urgently needed because of the insufficient resources in the respective national budgets of the abovementioned member states in order to be able to cushion the relatively high unemployment rate in those countries compared to the eu average and, above all, to absorb some of its effects. unfortunately, the sum is only a drop in the bucket. i do not mean to belittle this short-term help, but rather to emphasise that the problem of high youth unemployment must be tackled, not just its negative effects. the appropriations allocated to this programme are intended to finance measures aimed at integrating or reintegrating the unemployed into the labour market. the reason for the high rate in itself is not removed for the time being.
in writing. − the author explains the apparently worrying situation regarding fishing effort in the central and western pacific. a vessel days system which regulates the number of days of fishing would help small island states to increase their income and would also prevent overfishing. the author therefore opposes the protocol as it only benefits a few large ship owners and does little to improve the sustainable management of fish stocks.
in writing. the 'circus' between the european parliament's working places in brussels and strasbourg must be brought to an end. the european parliament should have only one seat in future, in strasbourg, for several reasons. the european parliament has a duty to protect the citizens of europe. since 1952, european parliamentary assemblies have met in strasbourg, and since 1999 it has been the official and sole seat of the european parliament. that is why, some 15 years ago, a modern parliament building was built at a cost of some 450 million euros. the attempts of the opponents of strasbourg to sell a move to brussels under the guise of a 'single-seat campaign' are therefore a gross electoral deception and a waste of money, since the building in strasbourg is not to be used for anything else. moreover, the alsatian capital, which was for centuries a subject of dispute between germany and france, is a symbol not only of franco-german reconciliation after the second world war but also of peace in europe. all of this must be taken into account, which is why this false paper was rejected.
in writing. − the european parliament's monthly commuting between brussels and strasbourg is economically unjustifiable and must be stopped. however, the right to decide on the location of the parliament is currently reserved to all eu member states by unanimity. however, unlike many of my colleagues, i do not think that brussels is the most appropriate place for the ep to be. this city is badly run, unhealthy and unmanaged. concentrating all the european institutions in one city - brussels - is a very short-sighted policy. the high level of support for the ep's brussels residence is largely due to the fact that many meps have acquired property in the city. strasbourg, which has been at the crossroads of german and french history for many centuries, is a symbol of the reunification of europe. i think it is a very good place to host the european parliament. it was not without reason that in 1949 the nations of europe decided to establish the first international organization, the council of europe, in strasbourg, to promote peace on a war-torn continent. with improved infrastructure, particularly in the area of air transport, strasbourg, which already hosts the ep's main official seat, could become the sole home of the ep. but it would be even better to choose one of the capitals of the new member states as the seat of the european parliament - they still have too few european institutions, but they are a good addition to the city and national income. the latvian capital, riga, for example, could be a great home for the european parliament. the eu's functions and structure are fundamentally different from those of a state, and so its institutions need not be concentrated in a single city. by disrupting the eu institutions, citizens and employees alike will benefit.
in writing. - given the enormous additional cost - not only in financial terms - of the monthly trips to strasbourg, the continuing efforts of all the competent institutions and the massive support for the merger of the ep's seats in several petitions, only advantages can be found in the change in the rules on the ep's self-determination. the independent internal organisation is a key factor in increasing the efficiency of the european parliament's work.
i have to say, madam president, horizon 2020 is designed to create a new funding programme for research and innovation. the positive side is that the research rate is to be increased from 2% to 3% and that innovative smes will have better access to funding. i am critical, however, of the patentability of stem cells for which human embryos have been destroyed. life itself, and human life in particular, should not be the subject of patents. the human body or parts of it may not be monopolized for research and commercial purposes. the same applies to bio-patents, which play into the hands of the gene industry and destroy small farmers' structures. and animal testing in eu research programmes should be reduced to an unavoidable minimum and ideally replaced entirely by alternative methods. the commission has already made a number of proposals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think the answer is relatively simple. it is an ethical approach in which we both differ, and therefore my position.
i have to say, madam president, of the €80 billion budgeted for horizon 2020, €144 million will go to stem cell research alone. and to put it simply, the questioner, mr obermayr, has misunderstood this: it is not a question of banning stem cell research in general, but of banning embryo-killing stem cell research! it is ethically unsustainable and totally unacceptable to me. there are alternatives to this, such as in the area of adult stem cells, cord blood, where stem cells can be extracted, or the so-called induced pluripotent stem cells, which also represent an alternative in which you don't have to kill embryos. so there are alternatives! and that is also the concern of the citizens: 1 896 000 people have signed a petition to this parliament opposing stem cell research which has embryo-killing effects. the european court of justice also said in its judgment of 18 october 2011 in brussels v greenpeace that it is unacceptable to patent processes that require the killing of embryos beforehand. i therefore ask you to take these two sources - the citizens who have expressed their protest with 1 896 000 signatures for the citizens' initiative 'one of us' and the european court of justice - seriously and to stop this embryo-killing stem cell research in favour of the alternatives. it's my ethical concern. if you don't comply, i won't be able to support this!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank ireland and the commissioner very warmly. today was supposed to be a holiday! the adoption of this research programme is, i believe, one of the greatest successes of recent years for us and for your team, because it points to the future, supports new employment accordingly and helps us to make leaps in global competition. i would also like to thank mr ehler in particular for his support of small and medium-sized enterprises and i hereby appoint him as the 'mp for smes of the year 2014', because it has already been recognised that innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises is a key challenge for them to be able to perform as suppliers to the large international leaders. i would also like to thank commission president barroso. he actually had the idea for the european institute of technology. the lisbon agenda, to become the most competitive knowledge-based area in the world, is still alive. and the eit's central challenge is to finally make the knowledge we have developed in all the research programmes up to now available to the public: in kindergartens, in schools, in universities, in companies! that's the real challenge! the new learning and teaching technologies that we see here: how do we get the knowledge that we've generated out of the archives and into the hands of the people? that is the real challenge, and i thank you for it!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr kariņš! my question is this: the european parliament would have originally asked for 100 billion euros, because we know, of course, that the greatest leverage is in research expenditure for employment and competitiveness. do you think it is possible to negotiate with the heads of state and government in the midterm review, that is in two years' time, to actually increase this research budget to 100 billion euros?
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank commissioner tajani in particular for taking up the suggestion of the european parliament that entrepreneurship is a key challenge for our future, that in europe we have unfortunately only 45% more citizens who would be willing to become entrepreneurs themselves, whereas in china, for example, there are 71%. in our country, entrepreneurship is also associated with greater risk, and this willingness to take risks is often also associated with a certain degree of criminalization. so we're about taking entrepreneurship out of criminalization. if you look at the number of selfemployed people in europe who are active, who are then thinking very carefully about the big leap to become their first employee or their first worker, because they have to read practically a ton of laws to be able to take on the first worker. we have to improve that! i think that entrepreneurship 2020 is the challenge. only if we get self-employed smes to start up, smes to want to become leading companies, and we support the fast-growing companies accordingly, can we meet this central challenge. therefore, entrepreneurs need freedom, and this is the key challenge! how can we de-bureaucratize, de-criminalize? and how can we get children to actually start from kindergarten, from early adolescence, to be confronted with independence, to be prepared to learn, to work independently and then to see accordingly that it is possible to implement the programmes that we have now created? we know that two thirds of jobs are in smes, that 80% of new jobs have been created in companies less than five years old - that is, spin-offs from universities and companies. the promotion of this spirit is one of the key challenges. if i think of our social policy, 80% of the taxes are paid by small and mediumsized enterprises. the big multinational corporations are going to tax havens, offshore companies, shifting their profits back and forth as they need to, paying an average of 4% in taxes. but it cannot be that this is limited to small and mediumsized enterprises. i also congratulate you on erasmus for young entrepreneurs! erasmus for young entrepreneurs is the commission's success story because it is aimed at young people who want to take on responsibility in the future, at those who are willing to perform, who are above average and who also take on responsibility. the environment for entrepreneurship will play a very special role in the future and we must of course also try to create programmes that we can use to create leverage. the leverage is given in the cosme programme and i thank mr creutzmann very warmly for recognising that this leverage is of particular importance. we are not just providing eur 2 billion here, but it is above all about setting an example. we say, "okay, we'll take a risk share in your operation. of course, you have to take some risks yourself, do some oversized work, and hopefully you'll get some of your capital invested refinanced. but we - the community - are supporting you so that you can expand your business, so that you can grow, and so that you can get into the export business. if we consider that only 13% of our companies export to countries outside the european union, we must seize an additional opportunity here. in turn, we can also learn from start-ups what is happening outside europe. they should be able to cross borders freely - to brazil, china, japan - and establish new business contacts there - or to africa, the continent of the future. here too, in the environmental sector, there is a huge opportunity for us to contribute to a clean continent, and that is why we should give young, strong entrepreneurs the chance to succeed there, to make profits and then to have the equity to also get the loans for the necessary growth in the future. i am not sure that this is the case. this is a historic achievement you've made here. you'll be in the history books of the entrepreneurial spirit!
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is why it is important in terms of revenue that we support small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. a sme package for 2020 would be a nice challenge. we could develop a package together with the small business act smes 2020, where is the journey going? and try to develop a new direction with the european investment bank, the european investment fund, structural funds and development aid. i think we have agreed on this in the committee on budgets. we want programmes with the greatest possible leverage. so where are the approaches in a benchmark? perhaps we should look at the world in which the funds are being used and, above all, how to relieve the burden on the farms. we also raise taxes where we want to prevent the consumption of tobacco or alcohol, for example. why don't we cut taxes where we want jobs and growth? i think that the commissioner responsible for taxation should set an example here. how can we increase the risk capital in the companies in such a way that new employment is possible?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank mr bendtsen and ask him: we have penalties in the european union for infringements of competition laws. could you imagine that these fines, which are levied on large companies for infringements of competition rules, would be used for the cosme programme or the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, for example? are you advocating a commitment to own resources?
i have to say, madam president, the 23 million smes make a major contribution to strengthening the european economy and creating and, above all, safeguarding jobs, as we all know. it is also smes that are among the reliable taxpayers and thus form the backbone of public finances. this justifies targeted and sustainable support for smes, which should be implemented under the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes. but i think this one should be more highly endowed. 2.5 billion for seven years is probably just too little. in any event, it is positive that smes operating locally and regionally, but not with cross-border activities, are now included in the area of support. i think that the tourism sector should be given special attention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mr őry what opportunities he sees for small and mediumsized enterprises in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has also proposed that the number of tenderers should be reduced so that smaller firms can participate. what do you think?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the current situation in defence policy and in the industrial sector is unfortunately still characterised by nationalist attitudes, as was recently shown in libya, mali and in relation to syria. it is only when a genuine common security and defence policy has been established that the idea of a european defence market can be pursued in a meaningful way. at the moment, it can be concluded that further intervention in the defence market, including increased certification and tendering procedures, will only lead to increased effort and bureaucracy related to the tendering and award of contracts. this aspect already accounts for a significant proportion of the cost of product development. smes in particular are unable to cope with this extra effort and will therefore suffer the most from the senseless extra bureaucracy. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the programme. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the more complex armaments are designed and ordered for specific non-standard situations, partly unfortunately also to give preference to national tenderers. i therefore think that the eu's intervention is wrong, because it does not prevent national preferences in the award of contracts, but it makes life more difficult for smes by adding bureaucracy.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr liem hoang ngoc, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics (com (2012) 0167 c7-0101/2012 2012/0084 (cod)) (a7-0436/2012).
ladies and gentlemen, i shall now explain the rules of procedure very broadly. mr liberadzki did not raise a blue card, but signed up for catch the eye. but he did ask a question to mrs gáll-pelcz. i am not allowed to give her the floor to answer because it was not a blue card, but i ask you to forgive me if i give her the floor after i have addressed her personally so that she can answer briefly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by jutta steinruck, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union programme for social change and innovation (com ((2011) 0609 c7-0318/2011 2011/0270 ((cod)) (a7-0241/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu) by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000122/2013 b7-0524/2013) (2013/2841 ((rsp)).
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the commission's communication of 2 december on strengthening the social dimension in economic and monetary union was widely publicized. in the end, this communication represents progress, but unfortunately only a very small step in the right direction. in the resolution adopted today, we members of parliament are calling for more than just greater consideration of statistics in the context of the european semester. social considerations must be at the heart of all legislation and action at eu level. i welcome the new scoreboard, which will be introduced in the next european semester. but i cannot approve of it being so non-binding. for the first time, social indicators are being taken more into account in this framework. both the choice of indicators and the possible consequences are to be criticized: on the one hand, clearer indicators need to be defined. this should include, for example, a differentiated view of unemployment rates or disposable household income. on the other hand, there are no binding or even automatic consequences if a member state has poor results in these indicators. in contrast, there are very well automatic sanctions if a member state breaks the deficit rules. i am convinced that the european social partners must be much more closely involved in the european semester.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very pleased that we have here, with the life programme, a genuine instrument to support environmental projects and, more recently, climate protection projects. this is the main instrument of support, although not very large compared with the large structural funds, but i believe, as the past has shown, very effective. since 1992, when this programme was launched, we have supported 3 700 environmental projects to a considerable extent and now have over 3 billion euro available for this programming period. the most encouraging thing is that we have a 42 per cent increase here. we have had to make cuts everywhere, but we have had an increase of 42% in the environment, as i said, and a tripling of the budget for climate action! i think this is europe's commitment to do something about climate change and adaptation. the new programmes with these integrated projects are really important so that we too can gain experience in the practical implementation of the environmental protection programme and, above all, in the further implementation of the policy. here you can really see on the ground, so to speak, how different things can work. we can draw conclusions from this and then act accordingly and introduce new regulations where they are needed. but very often, as we know, it is really only a matter of implementing the environmental regulations we have created, and also of cooperation. that's why i agree with jutta haug. the important thing here is not so much to look at the national side, but to look at the bigger picture, that is to say, to promote the community and these transnational projects accordingly. so these national quotas are not very helpful. i would like to take a quick look at austria. since joining the eu in 1995, we have supported 46 projects in my member state with over eur 150 million, with a very high co-financing rate of 45%. i am particularly pleased that we have focused on the rivers, specifically the natural habitats along the river courses, and i am particularly concerned that we now have the means to continue here!
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank jutta haug for her efforts. i think that in the last few days we have had to suffer setbacks in terms of conservation of species and nature, if we think of the common agricultural policy, where we have only achieved 5% of ecological preferential areas. we have here at last a very clear commitment from the european parliament to greater protection of nature and species. i'm glad we were able to at least make a small increase in the budget. i was responsible for some of these life projects as a member of the government in my home state of lower austria, and i am so grateful that we have these european funds and have been able to implement projects such as the protection of the grand staircase, the revitalization of the ybbs, the largest water area in austria that we have on the traisen river. these are projects where we can not only promote the conservation of species and nature, but also really show europeans how their money is used and how the money we send to brussels, as is so often said, comes home and is filled with life and protection. i would like to thank you very much and i would naturally like these budget increases to be even greater in the future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are at a point where we have not only the opportunity but also the duty to make the current tax system and thus the internal market more uniform and efficient. the protection of financial interests can be ensured in particular by combating tax evasion, distortions of competition and unnecessary burdens on public authorities and taxpayers . it also provides for the possibility of cooperating with third countries. fiscalis 2020 will positively enhance existing industrial networks and also the exchange of information between national authorities. the commission's amendment proposal to continue the measures of the predecessor programme must therefore logically be accepted. i am opposed to a merger of the zoll 2013 and fiscalis 2013 programmes because of the lack of necessity!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm charging you with political manipulation and misuse of taxpayer funds. the error rate in the internal debate - you know that - was not 4.8%, but it could well have been over 5%. the elections were politically manipulated to make the result look worse! the misuse of taxpayers' money is that, despite the fact that the court of auditors is being treated as something very grand, you are investing between 50 and 70% of your total budget of 130 million euros in this exercise of duty, which is essentially always about mistakes, without it being quite clear what those mistakes are. i ask you to do at last what so many millions of european citizens want, namely to promote a strong court of auditors with the appropriate backing, as it used to be, and not to bow down to the political pressure that you are subjected to because you earn more than the chancellors and heads of government in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the court of auditors should have been more courageous, but the court of auditors' staff, especially those in the second and third rows, should have been more courageous, and we should have been more grateful to them for their efforts to shed light on the situation. the commission should take the warnings very seriously and not have a petty discussion about the basis of calculation of error detection. the fact is that the increase from 3.9% to 4.8% is not a success story. and the demand for more budgetary resources should be met more with resources made available by avoiding errors. six countries are responsible for 90% of the errors that is literally screaming for sanctions! another shocking fact is that even if the errors are corrected, there is little chance of a refund. that's sad too! the court of auditors should therefore have more courage to draw up country reports, to identify the polluters and then to clearly state the reasons behind them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 1 896 852 citizens of the member states of this union have clearly expressed their opposition to embryonic stem cell research, that is to say stem cell research which involves the killing of embryos, in a citizens' initiative. i have already pointed out in my debate yesterday that there are alternatives to this in stem cell research, where embryos do not have to be killed. unlike my colleague mr kelly, i do not think that today's vote will make embryonic stem cell research impossible. that's not the case! if the requests of mrs záborská had been accepted, this would have been possible. this citizens' initiative one of us, the most successful citizens' initiative we have had so far - in particular the first very successful citizens' initiative since the lisbon treaty - should be respected by us. and that's not happening today! i hear that there are already attempts to wipe out this citizens' initiative one of us on other levels too especially when it comes to protecting unborn life in general. i think that is an unacceptable way of dealing with the citizens! i would like to stress once again that for ethical reasons i could not agree to this resolution.
in writing. - the new motto for supporting research and small businesses is: more money, less bureaucracy. the eu is thus providing more than ever before. the support programmes will enable smes in particular to boost research, innovation and competitiveness even more in the future. the horizon 2020 programme is designed to support research and innovation within the eu with some €70 billion. this means that in future european scientists will receive between 70 and 100 per cent of their direct costs and that funding applications will be processed more quickly. another new feature is the 'sme instrument' within research funding, which is specifically tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the research sector. in future, there will also be calls for tenders directed only to smes. the cosme programme is designed to boost the competitiveness of smes with some eur 2 billion. in addition to financial support, policy measures such as reducing red tape and facilitating access to finance are also to be promoted. at the same time, there are special grants for women, migrants, internationalisation measures and business start-ups. we will also develop the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' exchange programme under cosme.
in writing. − high hopes are placed on the bundling of the eu's existing research and innovation-related programmes in horizon 2020. with over eur 70 billion, the programme will cover the entire innovation chain from basic research to applied research and development, application and market maturity. the european commission has also been working on a new programme for the european union. finally, the use of new technologies in border control is essential. but even the extensive use of radar, surveillance aircraft, satellite images and countless databases will not be enough if the border guards, and frontex in particular, are being beaten up in the media for containing the flow of refugees and if we do not close loopholes in asylum legislation and ensure that they are returned. i think it is a mistake to concentrate on a mega-grant programme. i cannot therefore give my approval to this report.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is designed to create a new funding programme for research and innovation. the positive aspect is that the research rate is to be increased from 2% to 3% and that innovative smes will have better and easier access to funding. unfortunately, little new approaches have been developed to improve the criteria for the decision on funding. this is regrettable, because government research support is often subject to the problem of, firstly, selecting objectively meaningful projects and, secondly, cancelling or adjusting funds in time in the event of foreseeable failure. i am also critical of the patentability of stem cells for which human embryos have been destroyed. life itself, and human life in particular, should not be the subject of patents. the human body or parts thereof may not be monopolized for research or commercial purposes. the same applies to bio-patents, which only serve the gene industry and destroy small farming structures. in addition, animal testing in eu research programmes should be reduced to an unavoidable minimum and ideally replaced entirely by alternative methods. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have voted against the report because of these concerns.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has endorsed horizon 2020, which will replace the current seventh framework programme for research. at €79.9 billion, it will become the largest research and innovation support programme in the world, with its share of the budget increased from 5% to 7% (from around €57 billion for the previous programme). it is crucial that horizon 2020 brings together all eu research and innovation funding in a single programme for the first time, which will help reduce red tape. for example, one of the important objectives is to reduce the average time to receipt of funding by 100 days after the project application is received. horizon 2020 includes many innovations, one of the most important of which is the specific support mechanism for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). 3 billion euros have been diverted to this. in addition, the ep also decided that at least 11% of the total funding for the programme should be directed to projects involving smes. the 'about 2020' programme provides latvian researchers with the opportunity to implement research projects of international scope, to attract significant financial resources, and to increase their competitiveness. however, funding will be awarded only on the basis of the results of the tender, without any geographical breakdown being taken into account. latvia's research and innovation capacity needs to be strengthened through the eu structural funds.
in writing. − the 'horizon 2020' programme brings together all european research and innovation programmes for the first time. the final report on this is a compromise between the two parties with the council, which i think is very reasonable. as a university professor, it has always been important to me that science should serve the people and be accessible to the general public. i therefore particularly welcome the fact that all scientific publications (co-) financed under this programme must be made freely available to all. i hope that this will also help to spread open access to individual universities in the member states.
in writing. - it is essential for me to abstain from voting on this report, particularly because of my position as an austrian member of parliament, but also because of the need to preserve our environment. the overall structure of horizon 2020 for research and innovation is very welcome to a large extent. unfortunately, this report also assumes that nuclear power will be retained as a 'clean energy'.
in writing. - simplified rules and procedures are needed. whether this is the case and whether smes will really have easier access to european funding in the future remains to be seen. but in this respect, small and mediumsized enterprises have been promised a great deal, which has turned out to be nothing but paper tigers. there is also a concern that the framework programme is so large and complex that potential applicants have difficulty in finding their way around. at the same time, a balance must be struck to avoid opening the door to possible fraud. in this sense, the present proposal seems to be a compromise. my voting behaviour takes these considerations into account.
in writing. - in the light of recent events, such as the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, it is difficult to assess the adequacy of the approaches proposed by the rapporteur. as horizon 2020 has been allocated more overall funding from 2014-2020 compared to its predecessor, it is quite possible that there is still room for improvement in the situation of smes. nevertheless, the report is balanced and the rapporteur's proposals can make a significant contribution to the clarity of the award procedure and the simplification of the award criteria.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology (also known as the european institute of innovation and technology (eit)) aims to strengthen cooperation between the most efficient institutes, universities and industrial research centres. the eit works closely with the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), but sees itself as more than just a manager, coordinator and facilitator of the kics. the report says that the eit will become an education, technology and innovation institute, a major centre for scientific and technological research, focusing on exchanges in this field. the european parliament in strasbourg is proposed as the eit's new seat, in order to send a clear signal to the outside world. i have abstained because the report does not make it clear where the additional funds that the eit budget will need will come from and how much they will actually be.
in writing. - the establishment of this prestigious and important institution in strasbourg would be an adequate compensation for the city and the country for the loss of plenary sessions. the building has a meaningful function and the european parliament can finally reasonably follow the principle of a single seat. in principle, the structure and the actions that the eit is to take in the future will follow a rigorous approach and a well-thought-out overall approach that will be an enrichment for the european research and innovation landscape.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology (also known as the european institute of innovation and technology (eit)) aims to strengthen cooperation between the most efficient institutes, universities and industrial research centres. the eit also has close links with the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), but not least it bridges the gap between research, education and entrepreneurship. i abstained because i agree with the rapporteur that the scope and number of kics submitted should not be prescribed. i also believe that an open and above all transparent procedure for the selection of kics would be preferable.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology has proved to be a promising project in the years since its creation. unfortunately, it has received little attention, but has developed promising structures in the background that can make a major contribution to europe's innovation potential. communication and networks between science and research actors need to be further developed and the eit provides a suitable platform for this. the present approach to the continuation of the eit is a positive one.
in writing. − european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are one of the eu's most important drivers of economic growth and jobs. the proposal for a programme for the competitiveness of smes is certainly a step in the right direction to help smes, especially in times of crisis. however, their equity capital is still lower than that of larger companies and access to external sources of finance remains difficult for smes. i have abstained on this point because i am sure that there is still a lot that could be done to improve the situation of smes.
in writing. - i can only support the rapporteur's approach to continue with even greater ambition successful programmes which have actually benefited or helped smes. the main areas of support for smes remain access to finance and markets and the problem of high administrative burdens. i agree with the rapporteur's report, which highlights these problems and suggests sensible approaches to support.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is an eu funding programme for research. the timetable for the programme is planned from 2014-2020. horizon 2020 will combine the existing research framework programmes with the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip) and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the three priorities of the programme are also aligned with the europe 2020 strategy: scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges. i abstained because i believe there is a risk that horizon 2020 could become a purely financial programme.
in writing. - policy decisions are often based on statistical data. however, it has long been known that statistics can be misleading and deceptive. public confidence in statistics is undermined mainly by the tangible inflation associated with the euro. even if the eu establishment does not take the concerns of citizens seriously. the calculation of unemployment rates alone shows great differences due to national legislation, which in turn reflects the underlying socio-political developments. of course, a certain degree of comparability is helpful. however, i do not think that the project in the form it is intended is appropriate and i have voted accordingly.
in writing. − the author explains the importance of the european statistical system and the fact that european citizens' confidence in statistics and their credibility has been seriously shaken. the present regulation is therefore timely and the arrangements for function, activity and responsibility are very welcome. the commission has also proposed the creation of a european statistical system to monitor the implementation of the community's statistical system.
in writing. − the areas of employment, social protection and social inclusion and working conditions are typically national matters, where a certain degree of cooperation is useful, but where the fundamental decisions, in the sense of the principle of subsidiarity, should very well remain with the member states. the present measures would only further the progressive trend towards centralisation in brussels. i think it is highly unlikely that social change can be achieved at eu level, for example. that is why i reject the project as it stands.
in writing. − the programme is a combination of three older programmes which aim to coordinate and promote a range of social aspects in eu policy. the commission intends to reduce the administrative burden in this way. at the same time, there is no aggregation of content, but a separate categorization into subprogrammes. the possibility of clearly assigning the programme to one of the three subprogrammes, which have different objectives, remains. the report considers this to be insufficient and calls for a summary of the contents. i think that is absurd, because it would be a social misrepresentation of the programme's objectives. this would support correspondingly vaguely formulated projects and funding objectives. clear objectives and separation of social projects are important in order to avoid confusion and unclear objectives. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − the social change and innovation programme is an essential building block of a social europe. i therefore naturally voted in favour of the report by mrs jutta steinruck. during the crisis years, both unemployment, especially among young people, and the number of people affected by poverty increased dramatically. on the other hand, it has become very difficult for companies - especially small and micro-enterprises - to obtain the necessary financing. this is precisely the problem that this programme is addressing. from january, €920 million will be available for the next seven years. it's supposed to create good jobs. the aim is to provide better conditions for mobile workers. finally, more money should be made available for microfinance, which supports micro enterprises in particular, but also social enterprises. so today was a good day for the people of europe.
in writing. - i can support the report by parliament. it improves the commission proposal considerably and adds important elements to it. the focus is now on social protection and social inclusion, working conditions, anti-discrimination and gender equality. the increase of the total budget by 5% from the initial figure of just under one billion euro ensures that the social and employment programmes will continue to develop sustainably. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area. i am therefore pleased to see that the rapporteur has set a target of 10% for youth unemployment alone, without neglecting the areas of social inclusion and poverty reduction. the increasing complexity of the issue also calls for the establishment of a strategic advisory body, with the involvement of the social partners and non-governmental organisations. in conclusion, the initial scepticism about the commission's proposal was dispelled by the rapporteur's substantial amendments, which is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − taking into account the increased support for smes and the increased promotion of gender equality in the programmes, especially in the microfinance programme, the combination of the three programmes under one single programme represents a significant administrative facilitation and simplifies the achievability of the objectives of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − the main objectives of the environment and climate action programme life are: climate protection, adaptation to climate change as a cross-cutting eu priority, and administrative practice and awareness-raising. the new life programme, which will run from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020, is intended to contribute to sustainable development and to the achievement of the objectives and targets of the europe 2020 strategy. in particular, this programme aims to contribute to the transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient economy, to the protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, and to the reduction and reversal of biodiversity loss. i voted against the report because i believe that climate action in its current form makes little sense unless the 'global players' such as the us, china and russia are involved and also show a willingness to make changes. moreover, as studies and scientific reports have repeatedly shown, the extent to which man is actually to blame for the also purported climate change has not yet been proven. for these reasons i am also against an increase in the financial envelope for the life programme.
in writing. − climate and environmental protection is one of the most important issues of our time. networks such as natura 2000 in particular are an essential part of the work to protect our climate and environment. the report is therefore in any case to be welcomed, and the appropriations for this area should be increased in the future if we are to achieve any significant results.
in writing. - vat fraud, which involves the collection of taxes amounting to at least 2-2,5 per cent of economic output, continues to pose a major problem for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the area of fraud in particular, we have some member states which are particularly prone to fraud and lax controls, while at the same time there is unacceptable laissez-faire in the recovery process. the commission notes that the tax authorities have not provided any evidence that the tax authorities have been able to obtain a profit margin for the taxpayer. i do not see the need for support for other areas of cooperation between the authorities. this should be possible within the normal framework of professional activity, especially in the light of today's communication technologies. that is why i did not approve the report.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to establish an action programme for taxation in the european union for the period 2014-2020. this so-called fiscalis 2020 programme has already received very positive feedback in the past (fiscalis 2013) and is intended, among other things, to contribute to the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. this is a welcome development.
in writing. - the fight against fraud is particularly important in the customs sector. it is important to protect citizens from the risks to their safety posed by international trade in goods. the it systems mentioned in the report can only be used effectively in the face of the ever-growing volume of data if they are continuously maintained and upgraded. a certain degree of flexibility is necessary to maintain a reserve for changing policy priorities. a functioning customs protection system is essential for the effective protection of the eu's external borders. however, there is a lot of room for improvement, which i have taken into account in my voting behaviour.
in writing. - on the one hand, in view of the potential savings, it is also appropriate to pool programmes or competences at european level. however, in the present case, the two programmes are successful and well-functioning, with different objectives in the area of customs and taxation, and therefore a merger is totally unjustified. the critical report of parliament is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − the agreement of the european parliament, the european council and the european commission on the details of the so-called omnibus ii directive clarifies important points of solvency ii on the regulation of the insurance sector. the historical low-interest rate period exacerbated by the financial crisis and the volatility of financial markets have led to the absurdity of the previous valuation methods and parameters for technical provisions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i have agreed to this proposal in order to adapt the practical cooperation between the supervisory authorities and the insurance industry to the new circumstances.
in writing. − the proposed amendment to the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) appears to be intended to clarify an uncertain legal situation for supervisory authorities, undertakings and member states. the aim is to avoid the discrepancy between the voting deadlines, since solvency ii cannot take full effect until the omnibus ii vote has been taken. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the main drivers of economic growth, innovation, employment and social inclusion 23 million smes account for 99% of all enterprises in the eu, providing 67% of all jobs. improvements in the sme support system are urgently needed. i am pleased that we have managed to secure an increase in support for smes from the eu budget of €2.3 billion. the eu budget allocated to smes through the enterprise competitiveness and small and medium-sized enterprises programmes will focus on three key areas: reducing administrative burdens, access to finance and markets. in practice, this means that access to finance will be made easier smes, including innovative and venture capital firms, will be able to receive loan guarantees of up to eur 150 000. it is expected that 330 000 enterprises will benefit from this aid scheme. sme's in latvia often face problems expanding their market beyond national borders. the reasons are various lack of knowledge of the functioning of the market, administrative system obstacles such as lack of knowledge. i am pleased that the new programme has managed to include support options for improving the competitiveness of smes, including training and partnership building measures.
in writing. − according to the rapporteur, the business support under the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan should be provided at national as well as european level. the obstacles to date have been the complexity and complexity of financing, the disadvantage to smes and the administrative burden of setting up a business. the rapporteur calls for a compromise by the member states to avoid or eliminate these obstacles. this action plan is very welcome as it also puts the spotlight on sustainable entrepreneurship and links it to social components, including consideration of young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and migrants.
in writing. − strategic independence in defence and security policy is one of the eu's greatest challenges, especially after the us intelligence-spying affair in europe. the eu's objective must therefore be to emancipate itself from the us, especially in terms of defence policy, and to act independently also in matters of security and defence policy. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. i have voted in favour of this motion on these grounds.
in writing. − the report on the european defence technological and industrial base calls for the eu to step up its work on defence technology and to provide the appropriate financial resources for its development. but unlike china, india or russia, the corresponding defence spending is being cut. this has resulted in european defence companies exporting sensitive technologies to third countries and also shifting their production to countries outside the eu. since the eu must act more independently, particularly in its defence policy, and should therefore also have technology for defence purposes that operates independently of third countries, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − there is a lot of talk about the inefficiency of the european union's spending. this is often due to unnecessary duplication of expenditure at member state level. a clear example of this is the area of defence, where many member states are still pursuing the development of uniform equipment in parallel. the defence equipment industry is currently extremely fragmented and competition between member states is only worsening europe's position. do several member states really need to invest huge resources at the same time, for example in the development of a new helicopter? the main competitors are, however, producers elsewhere in the world. i am pleased that the european parliament has supported the report on the technological and industrial base for european defence, which makes concrete proposals to make member states' spending more efficient. strengthening industrial cooperation between eu member states could provide greater strategic autonomy, develop modern technologies to strengthen the defence capabilities of member states. it should be noted that the defence industry is also an important economic sector, with some 400 000 jobs in the eu as a whole. cooperation at eu level is clearly an essential prerequisite for ensuring the safety of citizens. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to coordinate their defence budgets in the eu in order to avoid duplication and to strengthen joint research programmes. joint projects would reduce costs and allow for long-term investments.
in writing. michael gahler argues in favour of the european defence technological and industrial base (edtib). he said it would help promote security in the eu and the protection of values and interests. in addition, he claims that the edtib will bring considerable technological advancement, not only for the defence sector but also for civilians, in case civilian and military funding are merged. he calls for more transparency concerning the allocation of sales and for synergies to avoid duplication and ineffectiveness when it comes to production, as well as research and development.
in writing. the resolution explicitly calls for the establishment of a social union which is supposedly the result of european integration. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of social policy, with a view to promoting the exchange of information and good practice between the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the correct conclusion is that the rescue policy did not solve the basic economic problems in the countries concerned, but rather brought a solution. in addition, the 'aid programmes' have effectively redistributed huge amounts of money across europe through 'bailouts'. the commission's proposal to move europe towards a transfer union, also in a legislative sense, ignores the simple reality that the eu is not the united states of europe. to make a comparison that is understandable, sharing the money requires a real 'marriage' of the states in europe: joint action, joint risks, joint responsibility. but since this is not the case, the 'friendship' of nation states which the eu is at the moment cannot be seen as the basis for a sharing of all the money and risks, since there is no one-sided approach (fiscal policy!). i therefore voted decisively against this stupid motion for a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. on 22 october, the house referred the estrela report back to the committee on women's rights and gender equality. that report was discussed there, and what is coming to the vote tomorrow is a new report. but the committee has denied members of parliament the opportunity to table amendments. this was protested. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has not yet responded to this protest, although it has itself stated that amendments must be admissible. several members of parliament also requested that the legal service and the afco committee should provide an opinion on the procedure. that was not allowed either. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this procedure for the estrela report is totally against the rules of procedure! my opinion is in line with the opinion of the legal service as expressed in committee, and i emphasize my explicit protest against this procedure, particularly as this is a sensitive matter, since hundreds of citizens are demonstrating outside this house against this report and since the house has expressed that this is a matter of trying to undermine a citizens' initiative, one of the most successful citizens' initiatives with over a million signatures of support, the citizens' initiative one of us. i would like to express my absolute and strong protest against this unlawful and unregulatory procedure of the committee.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 december, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr kriton arsenis, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down special conditions governing fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and the rules governing fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing regulation (ec) no 2347/2002 (com (2012) 0371 - c7-0196/2012 - 2012/0179 (cod)) (a7-0395/2013) and the request for an oral answer to the commission on the state of play of the mackerel fishery in the north-east atlantic by mr pat the cope gallagher, mr alain cadec and mr gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (http://www.europa.eu.int/ocarl/docs/docs/reference-type-of-fisheries-type-of-fisheries-in-the-northeast-atlantic/).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we austrians are not a nation of deep-sea fishermen, but the ecological situation of the world's oceans is something that concerns us. so let me make a few comments. deep-sea trawl fishing is known to destroy sensitive habitats and the species that live there. however, a recent report published by the european commission highlights the potential for deep-sea species to be fished using alternative fishing methods. these cause little damage to deep-sea ecosystems. the damage caused by bottom trawling is disproportionate to the yield. in the north-east atlantic, only about 0.75% of european fisheries are harvested in this way. in addition, trawl fishing is one of the fishing methods which provides the least number of jobs in relation to the quantity of fish caught. alternative methods such as longline fishing create six times as many jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not subject to any unfair competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the issue must be seen from the perspective of the people concerned - the roma on the one hand, but also the affected inhabitants of western european municipalities who are on the verge of despair because of immigration. with the rhetoric i hear today, about xenophobia and racism, if someone dares to criticize, you cannot have a factual discussion. it is a fact that there is a strong internal migration into our social systems in a form that has not been known in the eu before. the british, german and austrian municipalities certainly suffer from this burden in every respect. we must also say today that on the one hand the roma are very poor, but on the other hand there are the pompous heads of the clans who live like kings in castles in romania and bulgaria. if we want to help, money alone will not be enough. we must therefore take the roma clans on board. we must demand their willingness to cooperate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president read out a question under the 'blue card' procedure, as provided for in rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i think that this cannot be seen as simple and undifferentiated. of course, free movement is a major achievement. but there are certainly limits to free movement where it becomes a burden on the indigenous population. you have to find a balance here. the compensation is not achieved by talk, by the perpetuation of racism and xenophobic accusations, but by clever structures, where, as i have already said, the responsible, the backers, the clan chiefs are held to account.
in writing. naturally, the continuing economic crisis has increased social tensions. better education is widely seen as the key to better roma inclusion. in reality, however, the school situation of roma children is often more problematic than that of other pupils with a migrant background, despite the fact that there are hardly any language barriers. in many cases, it is the traditions of these groups that are hindering the improvement of living conditions. in typical good-manner, attempts have been made over the years to socialize them, and they all fail because they are not accepted by the majority of this nomadic people. this has led to the consolidation of behaviours which are seen as opposed to the cultural identity of the dominant groups' culture. the eu still has no patent recipe for the unresolved issues of establishment and possession of personnel documents, etc. once again, it must be made clear that there is no right to social security. the eu can no longer ignore the calls for help from municipalities and cities whose social budgets are overburdened by a veritable onslaught of roma, leading to financial collapse.
in writing. there are about 12 million roma in europe. nearly 20 percent of them report having been physically assaulted. policy makers in the eu member states must therefore act more decisively against widespread prejudices. it is urgent that measures be taken to integrate this population. sunday speeches are not enough. it requires information, education and active action. the european level, in cooperation with the member states, has the responsibility for implementing an effective integration process. in june 2011, the commission adopted an 'eu framework for national roma integration strategies by 2020' as called for by the european parliament in 2008, which calls on member states to set national integration targets in the areas of education, employment, healthcare and housing for roma. eu support for roma amounts to around eur 350 billion for the period 2007-13. many member states do not take advantage of these subsidies. there is a lack of political will to really promote the social inclusion of roma. the national own contributions to such projects are often not raised for domestic political reasons. the european commission too often fails to condemn discrimination against roma in a clear and unequivocal way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the motto of the european union is: united in diversity. but if i look at the specific policies in this particular area, firstly, there is a great deal of diversity and secondly, it is defended with teeth and claws. this is one of the major obstacles to the practical implementation of the rights enshrined in both the charter of fundamental rights and european legislation, so that they can be felt by the citizens. we must observe that while we are setting standards, we are not giving enough attention to the implementation of these standards and the consistent application of these standards. we must create the conditions for this, and that is the programme. we must create confidence-building measures, as is the case in the international arena. the users of law in the nation states must know each other, they must also know the specificities of certain legal systems in order to develop the confidence to realize fundamental rights jointly and across borders. we must also, and this is a particular concern of mine, finally bring all the important and fundamental consumer protection standards we have adopted to the point where they are applied. we can only do this - and this is shown by the many controversies about specific laws - if we create education and training and meeting places for those who use the law, if we create the necessary transparency in all areas - national, regional, etc. - and if we check whether the application is working. it would take more money than there is at present.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the citizens can see the added value of europe very clearly in this civil protection mechanism. whenever there's a crisis, you need help. europe must be given a face here, and europe must help along with the member states. it was important for us in the group of the european people's party that this original competence and also the obligation of the member states to be primarily responsible when natural or man-made disasters occur on their territory should be preserved. but there are always situations of greater magnitude where it is important that we stand together. we have already had experience in europe of this kind of cooperation, of this kind of improved coordination, and we can build on that. it is now necessary to take the next step and also to provide concrete financial resources, which we have now done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important that we learn from the experience we have gained so far. it has been shown that there is a very great added value if europe can help quickly and if the individual member states can also contribute with their strengths. this system of modules we have created also makes sense because it is the member states that can say: here is my area of expertise, i am making this available. but then the coordination has to be done directly from europe. the safety mechanism that is in place, allowing member states to decide for themselves whether this use of modules is really going to be applied now, also alleviates any subsidiarity concerns that member states may have. i think it is a right, logical step that we are taking in this area now, and i hope the mechanism works well. we have already had some experience with the typhoon in the philippines.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i therefore welcome the proposal to leave the responsibility solely to the member states and simply improve coordination through the eu. it is also worthwhile to focus on prevention, that is, prevention rather than prevention. efficient risk management plans are being replaced by a learning process, which is also welcome. this is exactly the kind of approach i would like to see more often in the eu: learning from success rather than from coercion. the approaches to pooling need to be considered more closely. the number of disaster flows must be sufficient to meet the needs of several simultaneous flows. in particular, national reservations about the human resources available, which i in itself support, could otherwise lead to dangerous bottlenecks. so pooling is a proven way to reduce the cost of expensive instruments while maintaining efficiency. we can only hope that we will have to use these instruments as little as possible.
in writing. − the proposal for the 2014-2020 justice programme aims at simplification and rationalisation, while combining the key elements of promoting an effective and comprehensive civil and criminal justice system, facilitating access to justice and drug prevention, and reducing drug demand and supply. the committee is concerned that better measurable indicators should be developed to assess crossborder cooperation. the proposal can therefore be regarded as positive.
in writing. − eu citizens can only use rights they know. all citizens of the union enjoy additional rights and benefits. the right to reside and vote in all eu countries, diplomatic protection by all eu countries around the world, europe-wide access to education or cross-border consumer rights are just a few examples. we need large-scale information campaigns by the eu institutions, the media and, above all, by the member states themselves. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i am therefore pleased that the rights and citizenship programme has provided a funding opportunity for projects that, among other things, contribute to better communication and implementation of the rights of citizens of the union. at the same time, i regret that the final legislative text did not include some of the suggestions i made in the committee on petitions. this includes in particular the involvement of organised civil society, the role of public media in communicating eu law and the fight against any form of age discrimination in the application of union citizenship rights, and in this context the promotion of actions to strengthen generational solidarity.
in writing. − the rapporteur argues in favour of the establishment of the 'rights and citizenship' programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme focuses on the protection and promotion of groups in society known to suffer from discrimination and systematic disadvantage, such as children, the elderly, people who are discriminated against on the grounds of their sex, origin, belief, sexual orientation or possible disability. the proposed regulation is very welcome and can only be seen as positive, since it is the weakest in society that need to be protected and the financial framework is therefore quite adequate.
in writing. - i voted against the european union's fisheries agreement with morocco because it would also affect the marine areas of western sahara. this is also a de facto acceptance of the illegal occupation of the territories. the fact that morocco has to submit regular reports on the use of funds is not enough for me. the revenue from the agreement will go exclusively to the moroccan state budget, and will not benefit the saharawi population. the eu must not support morocco's plundering of the natural resources of western sahara.
in writing. − many activities involve the handling of hazardous chemicals. in the handling of these substances, the employer has the duty to identify and assess the extent, type and duration of inhalation exposure. the determination and assessment of the concentration of dangerous substances in the air of the work area shall be carried out in accordance with the technical regulation for dangerous substances. of course, convention 170 is still important. the protection of workers is, however, a matter for the member states. i therefore abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. − the ilo convention 170 is a contribution to the protection of workers who may be exposed to chemicals at work. the convention is intended to help reduce and prevent chemical-related illnesses in the workplace. i have agreed to the jutta steinruck report because safety and health at work is of enormous importance to me as a trade unionist. unfortunately, this is the area which is currently under pressure at eu level. this is evident, for example, from the fact that the european commission has not submitted the social partners' agreement on the health protection of hairdressers to the council of ministers. this is also a break with the european social dialogue. i therefore feel that it is good that ilo conventions promote the protection of workers. i would also like to ask the commission to do more to promote safety and health at work.
in writing. − the report presented by jutta steinruck can be seen as an important step towards workplace safety. the security measures that need to be implemented in connection with work with chemicals are very serious ones because the consequences of accidents, misuse or abuse are most dangerous and lasting ones: they often result in death or permanent health damage. this is the reason why this recommendation is most welcomed and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the illegal manufacture and trafficking of firearms is a major security threat. there is ample evidence that the illicit trade in firearms is one of the main sources of financing for organised crime. europol is doing important work in this area and is playing a key role in curbing trafficking. the conclusion of the protocol is an important step in the fight against illicit firearms. i welcome the fact that the ratification of the protocol will now bring about legal binding for all member states and on this basis a common pan-european action against the illicit manufacture and proliferation of firearms will become possible. the unification of labelling requirements and retention periods provides the basis for rapid identification and effective control. an intensive exchange of information and closer cooperation with europol is an excellent starting point. such measures are the basis for a higher level of safety.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. since the illicit trade in firearms is also a major source of income for criminal organisations, it is essential to promote greater cooperation between european member states on the tracing and identification of firearms in order to ensure public security in europe.
in writing. − in china, there are still many issues that urgently need to be changed, including respect for human rights, freedom of the press and environmental protection. however, this report is concerned with formal amendments and adaptations to existing agreements which are within the framework of the wto and therefore specifically affect trade and the economy. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. the eu is also working on a new strategy to combat the spread of the disease. since 1988, the eu has banned the import of meat produced from these products. the eu is also considering relaxing its rules on us beef imports, after the americans announced they would import more food from the eu. this is a prelude to the us-eu free trade agreement. however, the use of hormones is now more discreet than it was years ago. it is also unclear whether the eu is planning to introduce any elaborate controls in this respect. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from finland for nokia, a company active in the mobile telephony sector, was examined. it concerns 4509 redundancies, of which 3 719 were to be co-financed by the egf. the finnish authorities claim that the main reason for the massive redundancies is the relocation of tasks within the mobile phone industry to non-european countries. mobile phone manufacturing has been shifted from salo (fi) and cluj (ro) to asia (china, south korea, india and vietnam where a new nokia plant is soon to open). the manufacture of components and the production outsourced to subcontractors is no longer in europe. nokia is losing ground in the key markets of china and india, where other low-cost phone manufacturers are increasing their market shares. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from germany for first solar manufacturing gmbh, a company producing solar modules, was examined and concerns 959 redundancies, 875 of which were to benefit from the egf. the german company had big expansion plans, but due to the sudden changes in the market (price crash and global decline in demand) it had to re-evaluate the investments in germany and decided in july 2012 not to expand further but to close both plants. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. - the egf is designed to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the effects of globalisation and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the application from denmark for the company vestas, which manufactured wind turbines, was examined, it concerns 611 redundancies, all workers should be supported by the egf. the vestas group's situation has deteriorated due to the far-reaching structural changes in the world trade pattern; in particular, the stagnation of demand for wind turbines in europe and a growing market in asia, the penetration of the european market by chinese wind turbine manufacturers at more competitive prices and a significant decrease in the eu market share of total capacity from 66% in 2006 to 27,5% in 2012. the application met all the requirements and the report was therefore approved.
in writing. − canada is undoubtedly a longstanding and important partner of the european union. the strategic partnership agreement is designed to further deepen political cooperation between europe and canada. it should ideally be signed at the same time as the proposed eu-canada free trade agreement (ceta) in order to provide a political back-up for the mutual opening of markets. the most recent controversial issue of the mutual termination clause in the case of serious human rights violations is, in my view, important as a model for other eu agreements with third countries. the main points of closer cooperation with canada, in my view, include the intensification of political contacts and improved cooperation in foreign and security policy, including the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. it concludes that the agreement should be concluded as soon as possible and that human rights should in any event remain a binding clause for the suspension of the agreement. it is clear that the suspension of the negotiations cannot be terminated as long as the european convention on human rights is not respected. this is a demand made by all the european union's negotiating partners, whether they are highly developed or developing countries. i believe that these basic conditions should apply equally to all the negotiating partners and should be binding.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of safeguarding the individual systems that are important to the financial market. the interconnectedness of the market is so strong that the failure of a single subsystem could trigger a chain reaction, which is why it is of the utmost importance to provide protection through recovery and resolution plans. the report is approved.
in writing. − countless services depend on space-based technology, and space can also be a driver of growth and innovation, allowing many non-space industries to benefit from the technical achievements of the space industry. china and india have made massive efforts in recent years to push ahead in the space sector. this sector certainly has a lot of potential. whether the impact is as strong as the report describes, however, remains to be seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i voted in that direction.
in writing. − cloud computing offers a range of services from across the spectrum of information technology. the applications and data are then no longer on the local computer. the commission has proposed a strategy for cloud computing, as these changes will create a number of new requirements (including data protection). for example, the right to be forgotten and the right to portability are introduced - this is particularly important in the context of cloud computing. in the field of cloud computing, work has begun on the development of voluntary certification schemes at european level. unfortunately, the user cannot rely on security certificates at the moment. data outsourced to the cloud is usually distributed across many servers, so the user often does not know where the respective server is located and what data protection rules apply. nor is there any law governing who can search the data. i have therefore rejected this report.
in writing. − more than a quarter of german companies are now avoiding us cloud providers for data protection reasons. more than half of all internet users are afraid of being intercepted by the state. the commission's strategy to strengthen cloud computing in europe is therefore of great importance. to restore lost trust, legal requirements are needed to eliminate unfair contract terms, create more consumer friendliness and transparency, and ensure a high level of data protection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. european clouds contribute to the security of the european economic area and, especially when a high level of data protection is ensured, also represent a competitive advantage.
in writing. − the report on the expansion of the cloud computing network in europe, this new area of data exchange, contains a lot of untapped potential which, taking into account the data protection directives, can and should be unlocked to provide the eu with more than just an economic advantage.
in writing. − the decision to establish a body of european regulators for electronic communications (gerec) in 2009 laid the foundations for a functioning european internal market in electronic communications. the body responsible for monitoring compliance with european law in the telecommunications sector has done a considerable amount of work in its very short history and has cooperated well with national regulators. although no major changes are therefore necessary, it should be noted that the legal basis of the smallest agency of the european union also has room for improvement. for example, strengthening berec's independence from eu institutions and national regulatory authorities could address inefficiencies and thus allow for a more economical use of the budget allocated. the responsibility should also be strengthened internally and vis-à-vis the european parliament.
in writing. the report on the common fisheries policy is to be welcomed, as a successful fisheries policy can only be achieved if the rules are respected. greater transparency creates more comprehensive control possibilities, which in turn should prevent overfishing and the resulting environmental impact.
in writing. - as i have already said in my speech on this subject, the protection of the world's oceans is also a major concern for us austrians. deep-sea trawl fishing is destroying sensitive marine habitats and the species that live there, and this is out of all proportion to the yield. only about 0.75% of european catch in the north-east atlantic is collected in this way. it is true that a total ban will affect jobs in the short term. but by switching to more environmentally friendly fishing methods, much more jobs can be created, by some estimates, about six times as many. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the withdrawal of subsidies for deep-sea trawl fishing is therefore right for economic, social and environmental reasons, which is why i voted in favour of the respective amendments.
in writing. - deep-sea fishing is a major intervention in very fragile and sensitive ecosystems, which was greatly underestimated when this fishery was launched. strict rules ensuring the conservation of species and the protection of sensitive ecosystems, while keeping market economy aspects and sustainability in mind, are urgently needed in this sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report, although i am in principle in favour of the report and the motion. the only problem is that - and i have seen this repeatedly - there is always a military aspect to such reports. these attempts to deploy military bases or even foreign military forces in the member states must be firmly rejected by a representative of a neutral state. i would like to support such reports in the future and i support this in principle, but i cannot support them for the reasons i have already described, namely because they are always accompanied by subcutaneous military aspects.
in writing. − in recent years and decades, a large number of natural disasters with devastating consequences have been recorded, and this is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future in view of climate change. the number and scale of the destruction is likely to increase. the existing legal framework on union civil protection procedures is to be revised. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in principle, each member state is responsible for its own civil protection. the extent and approach of the programme will naturally vary from one member state to another, based on national and historical developments and regional circumstances. better coordination in this area on the understanding that civil protection remains a competence of the member states is desirable. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the current ad hoc system should be converted into a pre-planned disaster management system. the member states are given the lead in the field of disaster prevention and intervention at european level is limited to coordination and support. it is also very positive that the emphasis is increasingly on prevention and preparedness. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the european social fund, which is a very important instrument for the development of the european economy.
in writing. − the increasing integration of the european union also requires more uniform rules in the field of residential property loan contracts. the protection of consumers and specific guidelines on how to deal with price fluctuations or other problems that may arise are welcome. in any case, we must prevent the emergence of another major housing bubble, which could again become the cause of a crisis in the european and world economies.
in writing. the report aims to update the current legislation and simplify import conditions, and to eliminate regulations which have become obsolete. this regulation also contains a reference to sustainable management and to fair working conditions for workers. the report was referred back to committee before the legislative vote.
in writing. − the eu-wide system, introduced in 2005, is designed to reduce emissions from production. the money raised from the sale of rights will be invested in research and development of less polluting technologies. since relatively little has been done in the field of renewable energy since the introduction of the emission allowances, and at the same time there has been an imbalance, with some countries complying with the requirements, but others still having very high co2 emissions, i voted against. it should also be noted that the certificate system is a threat to jobs in europe if only europeans adhere to climate protection standards.
in writing. − the crisis of the emissions trading system has been and remains a serious threat to the fight against climate change. i welcome the agreement of government representatives at the beginning of november to give the european commission a mandate for urgently needed reform of the carbon trading system. the idea behind the emissions trading system is the basis for a good way to effectively tackle climate change, which is why i agree with this report.
in writing. the report by mrs de keyser on the development of south sudan highlights the already positive trend. international support, particularly from the european union, has been instrumental in promoting south sudan's independence. however, it is also stressed that south sudan still faces significant challenges in terms of the political and economic situation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that the estrela report, which i consider to be scandalous, has been rejected today with the amendment. i voted for the amendment because the estrela report was a very shameful attempt to undermine the successful citizens' initiative one of us, which has 1.9 million signatures and is aimed at protecting life. that is also cynical towards the citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the right of the individual member to table amendments has therefore also been infringed. the title itself is a euphemism. it's not about sexual or reproductive health. it's about the killing of the unborn human! it's not about health. that is naked cynicism. instead of offering help to expectant mothers, they are offered abortion. this is the wrong way. that is the wrong signal, and i am glad that today we have succeeded in rejecting the incredible attempt to present abortion as a human right and thereby undermine the human right to life. i am grateful to all the members who voted against this scandalous report today. i am glad that all those who joined in prayer for this cause were able to succeed today. it is a very short one, but it has managed to send this scandalous report to where it belongs: the wastepaper basket.
in writing. - the eu has no competence in matters of abortion, family planning and sex education. this is and remains the exclusive responsibility of the member states. that is why i voted against this resolution as a whole. this is also why the peco delegation did not propose any substantive changes to the controversial text. it would be better if the european parliament did not speak at all on these questions. it is neither desirable nor sensible that the eu should have a competence in these matters. i am therefore glad that a majority of the house voted in favour of an alternative resolution by the european people's party which states that these matters are the responsibility of the member states. this is a victory of reason. in addition, substantial changes to the text were omitted after referral back to the women's committee!
in writing. - the present resolution represents the european union's politically correct regulatory mania and illustrates once again the eu's desire to intervene in all areas of people's lives. the eu has no powers under current law to legislate in this area at all. abortion, and this is veiled in the report with 'reproductive health', clearly falls within the competence of the nation states. the estrela report is intended to downplay and force abortion. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of health and safety at work. we are firmly opposed to this view, which equates abortion with the use of contraceptives. i am very clear about my opposition to this politically correct nonsense and have therefore rejected the estrela report again.
in writing. - i voted against the two alternative resolutions by the efd and epp because i think the estrela report deserves the attention of the house. i am surprised at the opposition to the report of the committee on women, which is based on a very rational basis, and which is presented with arguments that are partly obscure. it is mainly a call for measures which are already the subject of consensus in most member states. access to sexual and reproductive health services should be open to all people. of course, women must have the right to control their own bodies. educational sex education in schools is also useful. studies have shown that sex education and easy access to contraception reduce both the rate of teenage pregnancy and the tendency to terminate a pregnancy.
in writing. - volunteering is the glue that holds our society together. we need to provide the right legal framework and recognition to enable young people to become more involved, alongside the strong volunteering of older generations. accident and liability insurance and other legal requirements should be minimum standards. it pays off for society. in the spirit of the european year of volunteering 2011, austria is taking a leading role in this area. 44 per cent of all austrians are volunteers, compared with an eu average of only around 23 per cent. for young and old alike, volunteering has a very high personal added value. it broadens the individual's horizon, sharpens social skills and mutual understanding, and gives the satisfaction of helping to shape society.
in writing. - one thing is certain: many things cannot be done without volunteering. if not for the many greeks who have joined together and started self-help initiatives to provide medical treatment or simply food to people in need, there would surely have been a massive humanitarian crisis. however, it is strange that while the eu has emphasised the importance and value of volunteering, it has also introduced a number of regulations which have made life difficult for volunteer organisations - such as the fire brigade - and explicitly for events organised by these organisations to raise funds. i do not see any such relief in the present report, and therefore i cannot agree with it.
in writing. − voluntary or voluntary activities are an essential part of social life. the report calls for a better framework for these activities. in particular, there is a need to increase social acceptance, strengthen funding opportunities and find a reasonable legal framework. the european year of volunteering was a success and has brought many improvements beyond this one year. it has shown how important it is that the european union gives this issue the attention it deserves. this initiative is a step in the right direction and i hope that the commission and the council will see the signal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. whether and to what extent they accept the offer of modernisation is, without doubt, entirely up to our eastern neighbours. but no one should want to embark on a geopolitical confrontation with russia on their backs. it is understandable that the ukrainian leadership, which was in trouble, did not want to be bankrupted by russia with export sanctions. the choice between many billions from moscow and several hundred million from the eu, including rather vague promises from the imf, was probably relatively easy. it was foreseeable that the kremlin would not tolerate deep penetration into its historical spheres of influence, especially by an eu that is increasingly turning away from russia and demonstrating an increasing dependence on the us. i believe that the european union should put a stop to this overly one-sided orientation towards the west and improve relations with russia. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. but we have a certain credibility problem in the union.
i have to say, madam president, in this form the proposal for the re-extension of the pre-accession aid cannot be accepted. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the reason for this is the reduction in administrative burden. it is a self-deception to think that by reducing controls, we can save more money. it is irresponsible to have enlargement plans for the economically weak balkan countries without taking the copenhagen criteria into account. as you can see, the accession of bulgaria and romania was premature and did not lead to a stabilisation of the european situation. the continuation of pre-accession aid to turkey is also unsustainable. it would be more honest and more respectful to turkey to pour pure wine, to abandon the accession negotiations and to offer a privileged partnership, whereas in this case too - and this must be said - respect for fundamental european values such as freedom of assembly and freedom of expression - as we can see in the events in the famous park in istanbul - must be guaranteed and respected in all negotiations and in all solutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr kukan, with all due respect, i do not think this report is balanced. i'll give you three examples, but i could give you ten more. i will just mention the three most striking. the chapter 'death penalty and its execution' mentions belarus, but the leading country, our partner country, which has a sad leadership in the execution of the death penalty, the united states of america, is not mentioned with a syllable! another example: on the next page, under the heading "religious freedom", there is a general reference to the blasphemy laws in certain countries. but where thousands and tens of thousands of christians are facing the extinction of their ancient christian communities - in iraq, turkey, nigeria and syria - this is not mentioned even by a syllable. christians are one of the most vulnerable religious minorities in islamic countries, and that doesn't even matter in the slightest. the third point i would like to make is to recall the debate on the estrela report today, particularly paragraph 118, where in reality even abortion is being covertly called for, and the human right to life of the unborn child is not even mentioned. these are just three examples of the one-sidedness of this report. i could name ten more right now. i shall reject this report.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, marian harkin, for the constructive approach to this proposal. following fruitful negotiations between the three institutions, i believe that we have reached a common objective with the adoption of this proposal. convincing some of the reluctant member states has not been easy, and i wish to express the commission’s deep appreciation for the constant support of the european parliament throughout the negotiation process. the legislative proposal is very timely, coming as it does while a majority of our member states continue to experience the repercussions of the global financial and economic crisis. in addition, besides all the positive things that globalisation brings, we shall inevitably continue to also address the periodic adjustments it entails when it forces companies to close or relocate. the new design of the egf, i believe, will serve the purpose of providing relief and support to the affected workers. we now have a fund which has a wider scope – it can be called upon in cases of both globalisation and the crisis. the fund has a larger group of potential beneficiaries, in that self-employed, temporary and part-time workers have been added to the redundant workers who can currently be taken care of. even if not explicitly, farmers are also included among the potential beneficiaries in their capacity as self-employed. the agreed co-funding rate – although not our preferred option – now set at 60 %, is still more beneficial for all member states than the current one. last but not least, under special conditions, young unemployed can also be supported to find their place in the labour market. this is a provision which adds to the other options that member states will have in the very near future to combat youth unemployment in the most affected regions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the egf was originally an instrument that made it possible to support workers who had lost their jobs as a result of globalisation, to give them a real boost, as i say. the economic crisis came and the fund had to be extended to those workers who lost their jobs directly or as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. it was certainly a much-needed help to those affected. the present proposal is certainly outside the eu budget and, in principle, illusory in my view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have to say that the egf will now have a much smaller budget, namely eur 150 million per year, which represents a total volume of eur 1 billion for the payment period 2014-2020.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would also like to start with ukraine. we appeal to all the forces in the country to restrain their activities and not to use violence. it is good that mr yanukovych met cathy ashton and former presidents but it is not acceptable that, having met these people and talked about a round table, he then lets the police drag down the demonstrations. this is not acceptable for us and we will fight for the freedom of the people who are demonstrating in the country of ukraine for european values, because that is what they are fighting for. (applause) turning to defence, it is absolutely correct that we need more european defence efforts. the usa is engaging increasingly in the pacific region and less in europe, so we have to shoulder our task. we cannot be the old forgotten continent. we have to fight together, against terrorism for example. terrorism will stay in our neighbourhood for a long time. as the commission vice-president said, synergies and better cooperation in the defence sector can also help us to save money in our national budgets but at the same time increase our defence efforts. i must say very clearly that if nearly 6 000 jobs are now in danger with eads, it is partly because the national governments do not cooperate and do not enforce and enhance european defence structures and european defence industries. that is scandalous. so we need more defence efforts, but of course we also need more social cohesion and economic development in order to have the support of european citizens. with that i come to the economic situation. we have had marvellous news in recent days. the estimated annual growth rate had to be revised up from 2.8% to 3.6%. the unemployment rate fell from 7.3% to 7%, the lowest since november 2008. this is without doubt great news – only that these are the figures for the united states of america and not for europe. in europe it is not as rosy as the commission and the council described it today. we still have many difficulties and we have shown that another policy is possible with the independent annual growth surveys which we presented. but unfortunately there is no change in the policy of the commission and of many of the council. i must say, having been in southern countries in crisis, that the more mr rehn speaks and the more he gives interviews, the more anti-european feelings rise in these countries. i do not want to interfere in the beauty contest between mr verhofstadt and mr rehn. that is their business. but we have to change the policies. from mr rehn’s department in the commission come figures that cumulative loss of output is equal to 18% for greece, and 9% for spain and france. this is what the commission experts say. what do mr rehn, the commission and the council say? that spain will approach the average european unemployment rate in 2033. that is the reality. do not only cite ireland, but mention the others as well. how can we live with this social devastation in some of the countries, from greece to portugal, highlighted not by us or by political forces but by independent organisations like caritas? how can the commission support the troika when in greece they are saying that people should be thrown out of their houses if they cannot pay their rent or pay back their credit? and what was the answer from one of the troika members to criticism of this position? he said: build shelters for the people who have to be thrown out of their houses. this is the reality in some of the countries like greece and this reality is not acceptable for us. there are a lot of better ideas. for example i do not know how the commission would react to this proposal: if we now sanction the banks with a fine of eur 1.7 billion, why not use that in the fight against unemployment? rather than just put it in our pockets, use it for the fight against unemployment and raise the youth guarantee. that would be a better idea. we have much better ideas for common european policy than the contractual agreements the commission vice-president mentioned. with the banking union again, nationalism and intergovernmentalism come into play instead of having a common european economic and monetary policy. let me also look at the social aspects of the situation in europe today. it was more than 40 years ago – it was exactly 40 years ago on 13 november – when the german chancellor, willy brandt, spoke to the european parliament. he appealed, 40 years ago, in a very visionary speech, for the creation of the social union. he pleaded for equality of social rights and economic growth. yet still today we have to struggle with the commission, and with a majority in the council, to have that social union implemented and to have strong social criteria in the economic and monetary union of the european union. instead of establishing a social union, some of the member countries – and i look, for example to the british government, but not only the british government – want to restrict freedom of movement within the european union and to create new divisions so that you can only travel if you have a high income. but what are we doing to achieve higher income in the poor countries? instead of having a common strategy to fight against poverty, we fight against citizens from our member countries. so today nationalism again triumphs over social concerns. instead of creating jobs for all and reducing the gaps between rich and poor with regard to income and wealth, we again draw these kinds of divisions between nationals and foreigners. again we speak about foreigners when we mean our co-citizens inside the european union. member states again – britain and others – demand more power and more rights for themselves but instead they should use the rights they have. if there is social benefit tourism and if there is abuse – and it is very small, the commission showed that – legislate at a national level but do not destroy what we have reached at european union level, namely the freedom of movement. there are two concepts of the european union. one is that it should be restricted to the common market for goods and services, maybe also for the common market in defence goods. but there is another vision of the european union which includes the freedom of labour and the freedom of movement for everybody. there is another concept of the european union which says we should fight against poverty and the rising income gap in the european union. it is true that there is mistrust in the european union, but the mistrust is here because economic and social problems are not being tackled by the european union. if we had a stronger common economic policy and a common social union, the people would also enhance the freedom of movement and the freedom of labour. let us not destroy the europe we have. let us change it, let us improve it, but let us create a social union as a basis for trust and confidence inside the european union. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll try it quietly for once, because then maybe someone will listen. it is not a stupid speech to say that we are faced with a choice of direction. it is not wrong to say that we are in danger of having the next parliament be brought about by an extreme far-right group. the alarm bells should be ringing for all those responsible in the european union! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are you completely point, point, point , many voters wonder. the council, the commission and the members of the european parliament are all very much concerned. and if we continue to act like this, dot, dot, dot, we will have a very terrible awakening on may 26th. but it's not too late.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as part of the social investment package, the commission presented the theme 'investing in health' in february this year. if we look at the figures in the member states, we see that investment in health, in health care, is falling everywhere. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we can only do that with a strong, meaningful health system. do you not agree that this investment in the workforce and in the health of europeans would also be an investment in the european economy? the lithuanian presidency has actually committed itself to taking action on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. firstly, on the european security architecture: a year ago the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize. it has made it clear to us that the european peace project is a success. we have made cooperation, consideration, understanding, problem-solving, a concept. who are we defending ourselves from? from ourselves? we are now in the process of ensuring that we pool our defence efforts and our forces so that we can jointly solve our tasks outside europe and within europe. the european parliament's study on the costs of non-europe shows that pooling efforts in this area can lead to a saving potential of up to eur 130 billion, a minimum of eur 26 billion, and thus to increased efficiency. i call on the heads of state and government to implement this efficiency increase of cost reduction and take the next step. the second point is that monetary union requires economic and social union not based on bilateral treaties but on the basis of community law, democratically legitimized by the european parliament, democratically controlled by the european parliament. the banking union is a prerequisite for the successful operation of banking supervision. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. we will then be sending a clear signal that we are serious about responding to the crisis.
in writing. the next council meeting will deal with the common foreign and security policy, economic and monetary union, enlargement and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. each country has its own particular strengths in terms of multiple (cost) efficiencies, it makes sense to start thinking about this now. i think it is essential to analyse the economic situation in the euro area, but it is impossible to impose more financial burdens on our citizens - we already have more than enough people to 'get by' by the end of the month. let us first give them prospects and give a great many of them a job! it should also be noted that the current eu is not in a position to think realistically about further enlargements for economic and financial reasons.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. this report is about women with disabilities. as you can all imagine, women with disabilities very often experience multiple discrimination. there are 80 million people in the european union who are disabled, 46 million of them women and girls. this represents 16% of the total female population in europe. i am very sorry that we did not have a short debate or a short presentation and i hope that the report will be voted on positively.
in writing. − pericles 2020 is an exchange, support and training action programme to protect the euro against counterfeiting both in europe and worldwide. the pericles programme promotes cooperation between national, european and international authorities involved in the fight against euro counterfeiting. the support measures shall include information exchange measures (seminars, workshops, meetings and conferences), traineeships, personnel exchanges and technical, scientific and operational support measures. some €500 million of damage has been caused by counterfeiters since the introduction of the euro in 2002, despite the euro being one of the rarest of counterfeit currencies. the pericles programme has made a major contribution to this. i voted for the report because we must not give counterfeiters the opportunity to succeed in criminal activities. the significant increase in penalties has certainly done its part, but the eu must nevertheless continue to intensify its close cooperation with non-eu countries in the area of counterfeiting.
in writing. - counterfeiting is always a problem with currencies, but fortunately it is still limited in the case of the euro. this is due in particular to the fact that the design is quite secure and the control structures are defined at national level with cooperation at union level. however, the co-financing rates for the control programme are currently too high. this puts a significant cost burden on the eu funds allocated to this purpose. it is therefore proposed to reduce these funding rates and to make member states more financially responsible for protecting their currency (reduced from 80% to 70% by the eu fund). since states have a valid self-interest in keeping their currency safe, this proposal seems reasonable. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − counterfeiting has a negative impact on the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. pericles makes an important contribution to effectively combating counterfeiting, for example by maximising the use of the funds provided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. the report presented here is an opinion on the european statistical programme. the importance of statistics is underlined, and the rapporteur points out that accurate and professionally produced statistics are of unprecedented importance as they influence political events and policy decisions. it is also noted that the available financial resources must be allocated in a very cost-effective manner. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the eu's policies on the environment. the report can therefore be regarded as positive.
in writing. − the international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers is an important step towards guaranteeing basic principles of domestic workers' rights and respect for their human and legal rights. i think it is crucial that the european parliament should make its position clear on this!
in writing. the international labour organisation convention deals with the rights and decent working conditions of domestic workers. their appreciation is the main objective of the convention. it clearly states that they are an important part of the economy, that their work has been legally undervalued in the past, and it provides a clear definition of these activities. they should be granted basic labour rights such as freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the right to join a trade union, the abolition of all forms of compulsory labour or child labour, the right to privacy, the right to education for those under 18 years of age, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − domestic workers are among the least protected occupations in the world. the problems range from illegal work, exploitative working conditions, to child labour and violence. the main victims are mostly women, especially migrant women. ilo convention 189 is an important cornerstone for improving the working conditions of domestic workers. it obliges ilo member states to guarantee basic labour rights for domestic workers. the commission will also be taking targeted action against violence and child labour. i therefore naturally voted in favour of mrs zuber's report. human and workers' rights must be equally applied to all.
in writing. - domestic workers are one of the least protected but also least visible occupational groups. the special protection needs of these workers, who are often women with a migrant background or children, require increased public attention. the international labour organisation's convention on decent work for domestic workers, which was preceded by a wide-ranging global debate, is a major step towards fair treatment of this group of people. many countries, especially countries of origin, have already signed the convention. with today's vote, the european parliament has paved the way for ratification by the member states. it is important to sign this convention as soon as possible in order to combat child labour effectively and to protect domestic workers as a whole.
in writing. - the rapporteur's recommendation is aimed at the very weakest members of society, and the protection of domestic workers is a key issue. since people with a migrant background are very often affected, it is particularly important to provide comprehensible and appropriate information. the report also aims to combat human trafficking and the abuse of domestic workers and should therefore be welcomed and supported.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as it stands for the application of the european union legislation in all territories that ‘belong’ to europe. the agreement between the european union and the french republic concerning the application of union legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation to the collectivity of saint-barthélemy stands for the steps that france has undertaken in order to clarify the status of the ‘territorial issue’ of the region of saint-barthélemy so that the interests of the union are preserved and the legislation is ‘the same’ and will be applied for ‘everybody’.
in writing. − the report dealt with an extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec and thus the continuation of a total or at least partial exemption from taxes on products produced in the canary islands. since the global economic crisis has also affected tourism and, consequently, the canary islands economy, and more than a quarter of the population has been unemployed as a result, i could only vote in favour of extending the period of application of the abovementioned decision, also in order to avoid further strain on the already heavily burdened spanish economy.
in writing. - in view of the current economic situation in spain, the report and therefore the extension of the period are to be strongly supported. this measure will not only stimulate economic activity but also stabilise employment in the canary islands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − eu development aid has proved to be highly ineffective, especially in recent years, due to, among other things, far too high costs, uncoordinated spending and immense bureaucratic burdens. the aim of european development aid is to focus on specific countries and to limit aid efforts to specific countries. moreover, better cooperation in the form of a coordinated approach by the eu and its institutions and by the member states is very welcome and would also provide financial relief. i have voted in favour of this motion on these grounds.
in writing. − to make the most efficient use of the creation of a common european foreign policy, it is also necessary to define precisely how its instruments can be used in the future. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i believe that the eu's external action and its instruments are important components of a europe which acts independently in its external policy, and i therefore agreed to this proposal.
in writing. − while humanitarian aid and help should always be a concern of eu politics because human rights are an important element of eu policies, the planned funding should be carefully reconsidered. the planned increase by 42% will amount to total funding allocated to the instrument for stability of eur 2 828 900 000. the instrument for stability can be theoretically planned and implemented within a week, so extra precautions and guidelines regarding the allocations need to be found because of the enormous amounts of money that can be mobilised very quickly. this is the reason why one should think and vote carefully with regard to this instrument for stability, last but not least to avoid misuse and abuse of a programme meant for humanitarian help.
in writing. − peace at europe's doorstep is undoubtedly more important to the eu than peace in distant afghanistan. the european union must therefore concentrate its efforts once again on the unresolved conflicts in europe and on our borders. in addition to peace efforts in the balkans, it is important to improve relations with russia, a country which has not been included in the european neighbourhood strategy, although it is an important strategic partner for europe not only in terms of energy supply. the european perspective for the eastern european countries is, however, only possible if russia is included. the present approach is at least a step in the right direction. that is why i voted for it.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this draft regulation, which mr rouček has presented with his report, simply because billions are going to flow to turkey. i think it is irresponsible to continue to consider turkey as a candidate country and then to give financial support to it. i'll give you just one example of how this works. after a new negotiating chapter with turkey was opened, turkish prime minister erdoğan immediately indicated the following week that he was not prepared to resolve the open problem of the turkish-occupied northern part of the island of cyprus. it does not even want to recognize the republic of cyprus as a member state which has already joined the european union! what do we want with a country like that? why are we financing a country like this with billions of credits, which the cypriots could use much more urgently? i am therefore deeply convinced that the negotiations with turkey must be stopped and that turkey must not be financed any further.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) is the fund that provides the means to provide funds for the restructuring process in countries that are expected to join the eu in the future. unfortunately, it was particularly in this fund that the pre-accession aid was massively abused. either it is completely unclear how countries such as turkey use these funds, or they support policies/economic practices that are prohibited in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. nations that have vague intentions but make little or no effort to actually push the accession chapters forward are funded to a significant extent at the expense of eu taxpayers. not to mention the logic behind the selection of certain countries to join the eu. keyword: turkey as a small asian country. the whole idea, or at least the mode of eu pre-accession assistance, should be massively revised in my view. we owe it to the citizens of the eu to ensure clear accountability and responsibility for the use of eu funds. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − the 'new partnership instrument' is an important step towards europe 2020. new partners such as china, russia and south america will help to solve not only global problems but also european-level interests. in addition to economic benefits, particularly in the european market, europe and its partners are better equipped to implement much-needed climate action and to adapt economic standards. i voted for the proposal for these reasons.
in writing. − since europe can be seen as elemental instrument in furthering and supporting human rights, the report presented by alexander graf lambsdorff is clearly in favour of establishing new financial parameters. this can only be welcomed because democracy is one of the fundamental human right and we should argue in favour of making it possible for other countries and regions to enjoy the same freedom than we do in the centre of europe.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this report for the same reasons i have already mentioned in connection with the rouček report. i would like to add one more thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not see this at all as a country which, for example, - because armenia is on the same list - still denies the genocide of the armenian people, the first terrible genocide of the 20th century. i also do not see how we can support a country where protesters are beaten, where some people were killed in gezi park and we were practically silent. we'll reward this turkey with billions! i do not see that at all, especially in the light of the reactions that have been sent from this parliament in connection with the events in kiev and ukraine. this is where the disparity becomes very clear. and that is also how we tend to be very lenient with regard to human rights and respect for human rights and also with regard to turkey's historical responsibility for the genocide. so this is a wrong signal to turkey as a whole.
in writing. −development aid is always expensive, often ineffective and sometimes even harmful, because the specific problems of a country are often, or all too often, not addressed. there is a lack of sustainability and coordination of activities. in development cooperation, budgeted resources too often fail to reach the local institutions for which they are intended, or only partially. this is partly due to weak institutions in the recipient countries, but also to incorrect incentive structures and lack of accountability. it is doubtful whether an eu-wide development finance instrument will change this, especially if the eu's voting is not coherent. so when we give money to small farmers in africa, but at the same time ruin them with subsidized agricultural products, we end up throwing billions out the window. it is also important that development funding be made conditional on cooperation on refugee issues, for example through return agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i voted against it in that sense.
in writing. - i am glad that the egf will continue in the new eu budget period! however, the decision by the member states to reduce the egf's budget from eur 500 million per year to eur 150 million per year is 'double-talking'. there's nothing left but a drop on the hot rock. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new framework programme. we need the right structures for sustainable employability and active labour market policies. there is nothing like the dual education system in austria. the eu globalisation fund has already provided a total of eur 27 million to austrian workers. this makes austria the country that has received the highest per capita allocations from the eu globalisation adjustment fund to date. the unemployed in the federal states of lower austria, upper austria and styria in particular have benefited massively from the egf.
in writing. the egf is endowed with eur 500 million annually and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35 000 and 50 000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. the report shows that 95 percent of humanitarian aid funds are spent on disaster response and follow-up. i believe that it is the fastest way of providing targeted aid to the affected regions and to the victims. since the report does not specify what the aid for disaster prevention should be, i am convinced that the 5% that has been allocated so far is sufficient. i have abstained because, as the rapporteur has said, i too believe that the fund is often too late. i do not think it is right to ask the member states to introduce more cost-effective measures first, which may then be uneconomical, because of a lack of money.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because it has been one of the eu's most important instruments, especially in recent years, to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis. it is important that the scope of the fund has been extended to include temporary workers, temporary workers and self-employed workers, who can receive funds when they need them. the possibility of support for young people who are neither in employment nor in education or training (neets) is particularly important. i am firmly convinced that it is essential to continue the fund and secure the funding. however, given the rapid rise in unemployment in the eu, especially among young people, the fund's resources would need to be significantly increased. i believe that today's vote has sent a clear signal to the council and the member states that the fight against (youth) unemployment is a top priority for the european parliament.
in writing. − as a result of the economic and financial crisis, many european companies were forced to reduce their workforce, resulting in a dramatic increase in unemployment across europe. in 2009, the number of unemployed persons in latvia increased by 2.3 times compared to the previous year. although statistics show that the unemployment rate in latvia has decreased slightly since 2009, both due to the improvement of the economic situation and the increase in emigration, it is still above the 10% threshold, and among young people even above 19%. the european union now urgently needs to boost employment growth to restore economic growth. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important support mechanism to help people who have lost their jobs to acquire new skills to help them re-enter the labour market, and i therefore voted in favour of continuing the fund for the next programming period 2014-2020. it should be noted that unemployment is a problem faced by people in different employment sectors, both private and public. it is important for latvia that the funds of the fund will be available not only to employees but also to self-employed persons who at a given moment do not have an income. unlike in the previous programming period, the egf will be able to be used to support young people in regions affected by unemployment. the fund is an important instrument to help the economy adapt to changing global trade conditions.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the rapporteur is concerned about the more efficient use of egf funds and also talks about the co-financing, which is to be increased from 50% to 65% and in particularly affected countries to 75%. the only negative point the rapporteur mentions is the insufficient funding in the agricultural sector, which amounts to eur 2.5 billion. although this is a negative factor, the report is positive in that it aims to reduce unemployment and to reintegrate workers into working life, and it is financially supported.
in writing. the proposal for an obligation to exchange information automatically in the field of taxation is a step forward in cooperation between member states of the european union. the aim is to prevent tax evasion as much as possible and to provide financial relief to eu citizens, who otherwise compensate for the outstanding/missing money by raising taxes. it is therefore in the public interest to support this step towards eliminating tax evasion. however, particular attention should be paid to data protection, as privacy protection must be safeguarded in all circumstances and comply with the applicable eu legislation.
in writing. − the transport of radioactive material is a high-risk activity for man and the environment. there are laws to protect all those who have to deal with the materials, and they must be respected. these apply to all european internal transport. in order to comply with the directives for carriers of radioactive materials at european level, each member state has developed its own systems optimized for it. however, as these are high-risk dangerous goods, it makes sense to introduce a uniform system to be followed by each eu country. the mere fact that it is based on existing legislation such as the transport sector of the tfeu, radiation protection, the provisions for the protection of the health of workers and the general public and the euratom treaty makes uniformity necessary. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − radioactive waste is a serious danger and environmental burden for our children and grandchildren. careful handling is of the utmost importance. profitability and thrift are not appropriate here. to prevent this, member states have developed a number of national solutions for the registration and transport of radioactive material, including nuclear waste. the problem is that the marked differences have made transport operations even more complex and thus, in fact, more opaque at european level. the proposal now provides for a common procedure at european level. this is to ensure that administrative burden is reduced, bureaucratic costs are reduced and the safety standard is further improved. i have voted in favour of the proposal because we all want a community solution.
in writing. − in principle, the rapporteur's approach to cost-effectiveness and simplification of the registration system is to be welcomed, but the transport and storage of radioactive materials always involves considerable risks to health. nor is there any distinction made between the transport of radioactive material for medical purposes and the transport of radioactive material for the production of nuclear energy. public safety must not be compromised under any circumstances. although simplification of the registration system may at first sight appear to be the most economical solution, the risks are immeasurable.
i have to say, madam president, i already announced yesterday in the debate that i would reject mr kukan's report. i did that today. i would like to point out once again that this report is not balanced but one-sided. like when you compare the numbers 100 and 101. in 101 there are two dramatic, deplorable executions in belarus, but the largest number of executions in the western hemisphere, which takes place in the united states, is not mentioned at all, not even with a syllable. this is a testament to the one-sidedness of this report. the same applies to what i said yesterday in connection with abortion or the extermination and eradication of christian communities in countries with which the european union even has quite friendly relations. i would add today that mr kukan's attempt to add these additions to the saharawi problem was a poor one. it does not in any way address the problems of western sahara. the palestinian problem, which should be more than necessary prominently featured in a human rights report, is also not addressed. i also disagree with my colleague campbell bannerman, who says that snowden is a hero. with civil courage, with decency and with a sense of responsibility, he has made known the human rights problem of the nsa spying on millions of people in their private, intimate and family spheres, which is not mentioned in this report. the report is therefore one-sided. it is directed against russia, it is directed against ukraine, it is directed against belarus, it is permeated by a certain phobia of russia. and so i rejected him out of deep conviction.
in writing. − the annual report on human rights in the world is an important tool for capturing the eu's contribution in this area. this report shows once again that the protection of democracy and human rights plays a major role in the work of the european parliament. it is particularly important to note that respect for human rights must be an integral part of all eu interactions with third countries. it is gratifying to note that many of the socialist group's motions have found a majority. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's gender equality strategy. sadly, homosexuality is still a crime in 76 countries. the call to mps in these countries to resist pressure from populists and conservative religious leaders is an important step towards much-needed change.
in writing. − the human rights report 2012 provides a comprehensive overview of the global human rights situation, one of the most important issues for protecting the most vulnerable and disadvantaged people. the report is very positive about the eu and its efforts in this area, but it is also very critical. the council also called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the european union's human rights instruments are fully implemented. the report is therefore generally positive and can be applauded for its critical nature.
in writing. −although the report does correctly point out where the problem lies in some respects, for example in subsidising banks with public money while cutting social benefits without the banks first selling shares to other companies they own, it does not provide any meaningful solutions. the only tenor postulated is that the eu should more regulate, whether in consumer protection or in the credit situation for smes. the central administration in brussels cannot, nor should it, in my view, become the absurd 'planning office of europe'. it doesn't work. we should have learned so much from history. the more powers brussels takes over, the worse things seem to be for the european economy. it seems to have drifted further away from its europe 2020 goals every year since 2010, and a de facto, if unofficial, funeral should be in sight. it 's too symptomatic . the problem is sometimes correctly identified, but the solution should be mainly achieved by a central organization in brussels. so we cannot agree with that.
in writing. − the report is without doubt to be welcomed, as there is an urgent need to open up competition in the eu and to establish a regulatory authority in this sector. i can only emphasize the view that the burden on taxpayers should be kept to a minimum and that a solution to the credit problem should be found as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − natural and man-made disasters are increasingly common. the un office for disaster prevention reports that between 1992 and 2012, 64 percent of the world's population was affected by natural disasters. the total death toll was 1.3 million, and the total damage was about $2 trillion. the report shows that 95 percent of humanitarian aid funds are spent on disaster response and follow-up. i believe that it is the fastest way of providing targeted aid to the affected regions and to the victims. since the report does not specify what the aid for disaster prevention should be, i am convinced that the 5% that has been allocated so far is sufficient.
in writing. − 80 million people with disabilities live in the european union and are in dire need of a physical, mental and social environment free of barriers and prejudice, free from stereotypes that prevent them from fully enjoying their fundamental human rights and citizenship of the union. in view of this fact and considering that 46 million of these 80 million are women and girls, representing 16% of the total female population, i fully support the european parliament's report on women with disabilities. the full participation of women with disabilities in the economy and society is fundamental to the success of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the unemployment rate of disabled people is still unacceptably high and this will be countered by the creation of jobs adapted to their special needs, which will also be conducive to integration. the report provides a balanced overview of further possible actions at national and eu level to improve the situation of those affected and to further eliminate inequalities and prejudices.
in writing. − we are now reading about accessibility, equal opportunities and the like, and yet we are still light years away from making life easier for people with disabilities or, even more, from fully integrating them. this includes, for example, equal opportunities in employment. women with disabilities are particularly at risk in society and are frequently the victims of violence. this takes many forms, such as sexual abuse, forced sterilization, confinement, forced confinement and the like. it is also necessary to integrate people with disabilities into society from an early age. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to enable women and all disabled people to live a life which fully integrates them into society. these include adequate remuneration in the professional world and the opportunity to pursue appropriate occupations. the care sector also needs to change, because it cannot be that young people can be admitted almost exclusively to geriatric centres, as is still the case in austria, where there is no possibility of personal development.
in writing. - i voted for this own-initiative report because it deals with an important subject which is usually not given enough space in public discourse. people with disabilities face many obstacles, and women with disabilities often face multiple discrimination in the labour market, in education and in the media. it needs better inclusion and barrier-free access for all people in our society. this is a long way off.
in writing. - women with disabilities are often the victims of multiple discrimination. of the 80 million disabled people in the eu, 46 million are women and girls with disabilities, representing 16% of the total female population in europe. women with disabilities have the same rights in every respect to a life determined by personal choices and ideas as anyone else. social barriers must be broken down here. women with disabilities often experience violence and exclusion let's open our eyes and ears and be courageous in our fight for equality!
in writing. - this report is very important: retail accounts for at least 11% of european gdp and 15% of european employment. i would like to say, however, that i regret the lack of focus in the report on labour and social rights in the retail trade and on consumer protection, as requested by my group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a little bizarre that we are now philosophizing about how to design a genuine economic and monetary union, in order to be legitimate and democratic. we know that the union itself is already lacking in democracy. this is not going to get any better if it now becomes more and more a european liability union, in contravention of the treaty. the lack of parliamentary control over the troika, the efsf and the esm is now being lamented. too little too late, in my opinion. a cry of alarm would have been necessary when the eu treaties were first broken. the brussels mania to regulate everything has already cost us billions, and this is the best way to inflict lasting damage on the union. with this centralization mania, the creation of ever new eu agencies is accompanied by an annual increase in financial requirements and by many duplications whose usefulness we simply have to question. the eu is also clearly incapable of stopping the large-scale subsidy fraud. instead of constantly demanding more money and calling for its own resources, brussels should instead put its own pen to the wheel and take advantage of the enormous savings potential that exists. i believe that the subsidy jungle must be cleared, responsibilities must be transferred back to the member states and controls must be improved. that would be a solution.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. the lisbon treaty has been in force for four years and i think the report is excellent. it shows clearly where we all have to learn from each other as a european institution. how do you see it? why do you want a treaty and why do you not want to show the european union in concrete terms that we can still do a lot better and that we must all work together towards cooperation?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the crisis that is raging has shown us what effects it can have and has had on our way of working, and in particular on the european council. he's been on a few solo trips, so to speak, to the bank. it was less pleasant for all of us. but it has also shown that the european parliament needs to be given much more consideration and above all to be involved. i would like to remind all of us of that. i would like to say to the european heads of government present: i am very concerned that we cannot really have these discussions, that they do not show up here, that they do not discuss them with all of us here in the ep. last, but by no means least, i would like to say a few words about the upcoming elections. it is a true sign of democracy and of active citizen participation when the president of the commission is elected by our citizens. in this sense, we all hope for a strong turnout. thank you to the rapporteur!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i can only return the compliment to mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, it was a very pleasant work on both reports. thank you very much. i would also like to thank the other colleagues who have worked on this dossier and especially those who are never mentioned, namely the staff of the inta secretariat, who have of course done the main work here, and in particular mrs mraziková and mrs o'keeffe, who have been really very helpful here. the lisbon treaty has led to the european parliament becoming the legislator in foreign trade matters. not just legislators, but also signers of international trade agreements. it was the lisbon treaty - and this is much underestimated - that has ensured that, through our participation, the european union is now pursuing a different trade policy. those who opposed the lisbon treaty opposed the democratization and parliamentarisation of trade policy, and that was wrong. if you haven't figured that out by now, you probably can't help it. but now back to the omnibus ii dossier. the aim was to convert the old comitology procedure under the lisbon treaty into a modern form, where the european parliament can also have a decisive say. it's taken long enough, it's taken four years. i think that is far too long, but unfortunately it could not be done any faster. what was important to us in this negotiation and in this confrontation with the council? it was important to us that there should be reasonable time limits for the european parliament to reject delegated acts. we have taken care - and this was particularly important to me - that the european parliament is not only involved in the content of the final rejection, but also in the creation of the delegated act. that was also hotly debated. i know that the commission had some reservations on this, i know that the council had some reservations. but those concerns were wrong. if you are involved in advance, if you know the arguments in advance, if you are involved in the creation of delegated acts, then of course it is also easier to say yes in the end, and the whole thing becomes less complicated. we also felt - and we agreed with the council - that certain urgent options for the commission are necessary, but that others can be questioned. in the end, a good result will be found here too. i also hope - and i can join my colleague in this - that this report, this law, will find a good and large majority in the plenary tomorrow. if we succeed in doing so, we will have taken a major step forward in european legislation. these are the things that may not be so interesting on the outside. but they do create an incredible amount of work. it is a difficult task to deal with, but it is necessary. we need these laws also for the european parliament to function, for european legislation to function and for the end result to be that we can make some sensible decisions in many, many areas of trade policy. so it's good that we came to this conclusion.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. since the treaty of lisbon, the european union's trade policy has been moving towards new horizons: democratic, parliamentary. the commission is now better looked after. the commissioner said they could move faster now. yeah, but we can also turn it off faster if it doesn't match our intentions. we have created the instruments to ensure that trade policy at european level is now also social policy, human rights policy and environmental policy. we are now responsible for this and we are making sure that european trade policy is a little different from what it was before. that's good. this is the way forward to a somewhat different commercial future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european union's banking regulation is one of the largest consumer protection projects in europe. never before has an entire economic sector been so extensively re-regulated in various aspects. the european parliament is now sending two further signals to strengthen consumer protection in the banking sector. first signal: 58 million eu citizens who do not have their own bank account will finally have access to basic payment functions. this is socially desirable, it stimulates the eu's internal market and makes a part of the economy that has been in the shadows transparent. it is also important that all institutions offering retail accounts must now offer a basic account. but i am glad that we have created a few exceptions, namely for non-profit institutions and for institutions that depend on certain criteria such as profession. i am interested in the non-profit institutions, such as the second savings bank in austria, which offers accounts for the poorest of the poor and where the employees work de facto without pay. i want to thank these people. the second signal is the improvement of the transparency of account fees, the facilitation of account switching within the union, in addition to the introduction of a legal right to a basic account. both are logical consequences of the planned banking union. i thank the house for the two signals to the consumer protection of the banking sector.
the debate was closed by two motions for resolutions tabled under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 december at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the relatively high population density in the eu 117 people per square kilometre means that large parts of the land available to us are intensively used. this is accompanied by pressure on the remaining natural areas and the risk of their fragmentation. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is speaking out across the political groups in favour of further developing green infrastructure in the eu. where it makes environmental and economic sense, the concept of green infrastructure needs to be implemented more systematically. clean air, clean water, flood protection green infrastructure can often deliver more cost-effective and sustainable environmental, economic and social benefits than conventional solutions. this makes it all the more important to attract private sector investment in green infrastructure projects and to facilitate access to finance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you certainly have one of the most exciting jobs on the planet today, one that involves extreme responsibility. i had the opportunity to speak in more detail with someone very close to you, who has described the basic situation of the ecb in such a way that you have to imagine it as a huge tanker, where you are the captain, but there is no logbook and there is still a lot of fog. nevertheless, in recent years, this giant tanker has managed - as far as we can tell now - not to hit an iceberg. in this context, in the context of what is now being done to you - because you have to try to bring on board many people whose boats are already shipwrecked, and this has very little to do with your role as captain in the sense of the original definition - i would still like to give you a warning: it is not only the great germany, where there is still great concern and anxiety about the instability of the euro and your do's and don'ts, but also the small austria from which i come. there are red lines. you are well advised if you are aware that neither in austria nor in germany will there be anything politically called eurobonds, that there will be no transfer union and that the attempt to use the deposit insurance of austrian, german savings banks, cooperative banks as a springboard for the big banking problem, will also be doomed to failure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we know, for conventional currencies to work, there needs to be a lot of trust - trust that banks will hold our money and manage it well. the financial and economic crisis, which was and is in fact a banking crisis, has revealed the speculation that is rampant. all the changes in financial market and banking supervision have not changed this. the new stress tests on banks are not likely to restore public confidence, as many banks that did well in the last test fell into difficulties shortly afterwards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. after all, it is often the only thing that works in crisis-ridden countries. similarly, the acquisition of portfolios, of sovereign bonds of the euro member states would only cause immense economic and legal problems. to prevent a new financial crisis, systemic failures such as the mixing of investment banking and traditional banking must be eliminated. if banks continue to speculate freely, it is only a matter of time before credit institutions are once again on the verge of bankruptcy, and they will not want that.
in writing. the ecb's statute commits the ecb to a social market economy. in a market economy, the market through supply and demand determines prices and thus the distribution of goods. money has a price, too: interest. but now, since the ecb does not like the interest rates that the crisis countries have to pay on the market, it intervenes. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. so a central authority enforces on prosperity and ruin the prices for money that it deems appropriate. mr draghi, you have turned the ecb into a planned economy which sends money around europe at will. who is surprised that the transmission mechanism in crisis countries no longer works? it is no wonder that the private capital market was frightened by this. no capital market is going to go after a money-printing machine. no one knows what the ecb's next trick will be. nothing is fixed, nothing is certain! the only certainty is that your jobs at the ecb have been secured until further notice.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. in times of economic crisis, high unemployment, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is essential for social cohesion. innovation is a key element in achieving this objective and should therefore be promoted. the eco-innovation approach, which combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation, offers a way to do this. environmentally friendly innovation is fundamental to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, using resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, increasing the use of recycled materials and producing higher quality products with lower environmental impact, to name a few. such innovations are also very important for the development of more environmentally friendly production methods. the manifestations of eco-innovation are many. the current focus areas of the eco-innovation 2012 call are: recycling of materials, sustainable construction products, food and beverage industry, water management and green enterprises. future calls for proposals should consider extending to all sectors and business activities, as eco-innovation is a cross-cutting policy area and all sectors and business activities should be eligible for support. the commission is currently promoting eco-innovation through demonstration and market-launch projects, market-based financial instruments and public-private partnerships under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip). these instruments have also been included in the proposals of the horizon 2020 framework programme to ensure continuity between the cip and horizon 2020 programmes. the growth of the green technology sector - also known as green-tech or clean-tech industries - in recent years has shown that investing in green growth offers a huge opportunity for the economy. while almost every other sector of the economy has suffered significant losses as a result of the recession, the environmentally friendly economy is still expanding despite some slowdown in growth. the european organic sector generates an estimated annual turnover of eur 319 billion which is equivalent to approximately 2.5% of eu gdp and currently employs 3.4 million people. this potential is far from being exploited. these are complex challenges, including food security, climate change, soil quality, raw material scarcity, the transition to renewable energy systems, energy efficiency and more. such a transition requires a holistic approach, covering education and training, higher education, research and development, private and public investment and infrastructure development. a new, sustainable eu economy must ensure balanced economic and social development that benefits all markets and business models. it can give new impetus to traditional industries and existing jobs by adapting to sustainable, resource-efficient production and working methods. this requires the creation of new tools and the simplification of procedures so that they can also be used by smes. the inclusion of eco-innovation in the member states' strategy papers for the period 2014-2020 as a tool for building and expanding an environmentally friendly economy could strengthen cooperation between education, business and science. our report 'eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy' addresses the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a more resource-efficient and lower-carbon economy. it identifies solutions and possible solutions and focuses on the framework conditions that need to be created at european level, but also at member state level, in order to exploit the growth potential of eco-innovation to the full. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. audy, you don't have to worry. we are taking up the proposal by mrs podimata and mr giannakou and changing the order of voting.
i thank you for this regrettable communication, which only shows how much the situation in ukraine is escalating and how important the further action, including by parliament, and the adoption of the resolution today is.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. − the proposal to increase the number of judges at the european court of justice is very welcome, as the court must be able to rule on cases within a reasonable period of time. the additional costs should therefore not be dissuasive but should be considered necessary. the main problem is the appointment of judges, and the proposed rotation systems offer only limited practical solutions. judges should be able to apply directly to the committee.
in writing. − after a thorough examination of the legal basis by the legal affairs committee and a thorough examination of the new legal basis, the report is now to be adopted. the use of the right legal basis is the key to correct procedure and legislation in the european union.
in writing. − the report presented by ms berès sets out the committeeʼs favourable position regarding council directive 2010/18/eu. the council directive concerns itself with the matter of parental leave. it pursues the goal of improving opportunities to go on parental leave and also offers new possibilities in context with family-related leave, paternity leave, adoption leave and leave to care for a family member. the amendment of the council directive can be seen as a positive step towards improving the opportunities available for working parents to reconcile work and family responsibilities and should be welcomed. the family is, after all, the core of our society, its foundation, and should be supported.
in writing. − investing in eco-innovation is in any case welcome. environmentally friendly technologies not only create sustainable economic opportunities, they also create many jobs and provide the basis for more environmentally friendly production processes and services. especially in times of increased greenhouse gases and resource scarcity, such innovations need to be encouraged.
in writing. − a seamless pan-european provision of payment services is an advantage of the internal market that must be promoted. to date, the different modalities have made it impossible for both traders and consumers to compare charges. the commission has also been working on a number of other proposals. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur that these developments can only be accompanied by a change in the financial sector in the community which is in the interests of businesses on the one hand and consumers on the other. it must also be possible for all parties to make comparisons in order to obtain the greatest benefit for each party.
in writing. - life without a bank account is difficult for most people to imagine nowadays. a bank account is necessary for a person to participate fully in social and economic life, such as receiving a salary, paying bills, shopping online. without access to basic banking services, daily life is more difficult and expensive. the benefits of transparent cash transactions are becoming increasingly visible and provide tangible benefits to both citizens and public administrations. according to world bank estimates, some 58 million eu citizens do not have a payment account. many people have difficulty opening a payment account. the problems of opening a bank account are well known to latvians studying or working in other eu countries, as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been prevented by banks from opening accounts if they do not have a permanent address in the member state concerned. in many parts of europe, including latvia, comprehensive access to bank branches and even atms is still not guaranteed, especially in rural areas. i therefore supported the amendment to the existing directive establishing access to a bank account as a universal right for all citizens. the right to change bank account providers without difficulty and to receive comprehensive information on the structure of the tariff and to compare it with other offers is also important.
in writing. − this directive is welcome as it aims to give all citizens access to a payment account. the commission also proposes to make banks more transparent about account fees. the directive is to be implemented in the member states as soon as possible, so that bank customers enjoy more rights and can more easily switch accounts. all people should have access to a payment account with basic features, regardless of their financial situation, employment or residence in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it gives a clear and transparent overview of the ‘payment accountsʼ that european citizens are able to use throughout the eu. by voting in favour of this report we vote for direct access to a basic payment bank account for everyone residing legally in one of the eu member states. secondly we voted for the ‘right to informationʼ, meaning that all bank customers should and will be informed clearly by their banks about all fees and interest rates charged. this is a simplified way of using banking sector services which should also be to the advantage of the financial services industry, because they will benefit from increased mobility and number of customers. the final vote on this report was postponed.
in writing. − the report is welcome, as maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management are a topic of relevance to all member states. it is important to keep sustainable development in mind in this area and to support blue growth in the maritime sector in the long term.
in writing. − the request for a transitional period for mayotte in respect of the new eu legislation is in any case to be accepted. in any event, the island should be given sufficient time to adapt to the existing eu rules. a hasty implementation would do no one any good.
in writing. the rapporteur deals with the essential points of fisheries policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial fishing' to cover the whole of the eu, with the exception of certain member states. the report is generally agreed as a european maritime and fisheries fund is needed, but the precise provisions on sustainability should be reviewed and revised if necessary. the final vote has been postponed.
in writing. − the 'european capitals of culture' initiative makes a significant contribution to promoting the identity of citizens as europeans and also promotes the formation of an international identity. cultural cooperation across borders is encouraged and the added value of the initiative is visible at all levels. in addition, the 'european capitals of culture' initiative has proved to be a great success in recent years and should be continued in any case. the changes envisaged in the report are positive developments. the commission is also proposing to extend the european capital of culture initiative to include the following cities:
in writing. − for the mayotte territory, and in any case for the ecosystems and wildlife therein, the change in status from 'overseas territory' to 'outermost region' has some positive consequences. various fisheries and animal health regulations will now also be valid for this area, a process which i support.
in writing. − it is necessary to examine each application by a developing country applying for special treatment under the gsp+ not only in depth but also individually. the consolidation of several applications in a single act constitutes a significant disadvantage for all applicant countries, since a single non-approval would have to reject the entire application for all countries.
in writing. - better education is widely seen as a key to better roma inclusion. in reality, however, the school situation of roma children is often more problematic than that of other pupils with a migrant background, despite the fact that there are hardly any language barriers. in many cases, it is the traditions of these groups that are hindering the improvement of living conditions. in typical good-manner, attempts have been made over the years to socialize them, and they all fail because they are not accepted by the majority of this nomadic people. this has led to the consolidation of behaviours which are seen as opposed to the cultural identity of the dominant groups' culture. the eu still has no patent recipe for the unresolved issues of establishment and possession of personnel documents, etc. the present strategy only continues this aberration. it also fails to take account of the financial burden on local authorities which arises from the free movement of persons. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the national roma integration strategies addressed and examined by mr aguilar represent the first positive steps towards efforts on roma integration. the rapporteur highlights the betterment of the general roma situation that has been achieved but he also stresses that there is still much room for improvement. issues that need to be addressed are the following: access to education, housing, healthcare, prevention of discrimination on ethnic grounds and the effective spending of eu funding earmarked for roma. the motion for a resolution sets out a picture of the current status of national roma integration strategies.
in writing. − the events in ukraine demonstrate the willingness of the various national societies to integrate into the european union. in the russian customs union, however, countries are being lured by blackmail, secret deals, and false promises. this action must be countered by our opposition. the european union must stand firm on its values and lend a helping hand at this historic juncture. 65% of ukrainians support closer cooperation with the eu and feel that the government is taking them into account. the people who walked through the streets did not think that the association agreement with the eu would change their lives overnight, they are ready to work hard to build a strong, orderly, rule-based ukraine that is in line with european democratic norms. all they ask is that they not be disturbed by corruption, theft of state property, secret dealings. ukrainian politicians, media and society need to know what the eu will do next if the association and free trade agreements are signed. the european commission must therefore develop concrete steps to speed up the implementation of the agreements. a new eu strategy for relations with ukraine and an emergency plan are needed. the previously proposed 600 million is not enough, considering the economic sanctions against russia. our response to russian policy must be appropriate. we must do everything possible to fulfil the aspirations of the ukrainian people!
in writing. − to create functioning and politically well-legitimated agreements, the full agreement of both parties is essential. the situation in ukraine, which is highlighted in this resolution, is a good example of this. the negotiations with azerbaijan have shown that inadequate or hesitant policies can also put potential partner countries in difficult situations. the geopolitical and economic considerations must be taken into account in a very profound way.
in writing. - the recognition of kosovo is a kind of dress rehearsal for serbia. some even want to make the european union the protector of the kosovo albanians, without taking into account the legitimate interests of the serbs. the declaration of independence by the kosovo albanians is, as is well known, clearly contrary to international law. it is in violation of un resolution 1244. it is apparently part of eu policy to legitimize this breach of international law, although some eu countries do not recognise kosovo's independence for good reasons. brussels has repeatedly stressed that it does not interfere in internal affairs. but then the recognition of kosovo must not be dictated to the serbs. i agree with the points made in the resolution concerning the continuing problems of corruption and the like. the peace process in the balkans, that is, on the doorstep of the eu, is much more important than the missions in distant countries. i have voted in favour of the resolution on these grounds.
in writing. - the rapporteur highlights the positive steps albania has taken on its aspirational path towards europe, but he also remains critical, highlighting the weaknesses in its efforts and areas where there is still room for improvement. although albania's efforts are very welcome and should not be undermined, it should be considered whether the immediate granting of candidate status would not be too hasty, especially since the violations of human rights and the discrimination against individual minorities are very serious and have a negative impact because they are not compatible with european directives.
in writing. - this package of motions for resolutions contains many different aspects, as the authors express some opposing views. it is also important to note that some of the issues raised in the motions for resolutions are highly controversial and complex. we have not yet overcome the financial and economic crisis and we still need to find more appropriate measures to help us get out of the debt crisis. as a member of the alde group, i am of the view that humanitarian and civilian foreign policy objectives should be pursued. this is how the union should present itself, above all at international level.
in writing. - the differentiated integration which is being sought is in itself very welcome; however, you must be careful not to set yourself greater goals than are realistically attainable. the present report is in principle to be regarded as positive.
in writing. − in any event, closer cooperation between the eu institutions is to be encouraged. the sooner the institutions communicate with each other, the more productive all those involved can be in their work for the citizens of the eu. small and large problems and obstacles are thus addressed at the earliest possible stage. cooperation within the eu institutions and transparent communication with citizens should be encouraged.
in writing. − it is the responsibility of man to take care of his environment and ecosystems so that they can be passed on to succeeding generations in a functioning way. in the area of infrastructure in particular, care must be taken to ensure that projects are compatible with ecosystems and do not threaten or even destroy them. this could lead to irreparable damage in the long term, which could also have a massive impact on humans. i also believe that sustainable infrastructure and its long-term planning will be necessary to maintain the quality of life of people, especially in the urban centres. however, it is to be feared that the present proposal is once again about meeting quotas from various international agreements without taking account of national circumstances. that is why i abstained.
in writing. the resolution on green infrastructure is very welcome, as unfortunately far too little attention is still paid to environmental protection and the preservation of our habitat. the natural capital of the european union must be protected, preserved and developed under all circumstances, and the measures mentioned in the field of political and economic work as well as in terms of public awareness must not be neglected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the new stress tests on banks are not designed to restore public confidence. after all, many banks that had scored well in the last test soon afterward ran into trouble. similarly, the acquisition of portfolios of euro-member states' government bonds would only cause immense economic and legal problems. to prevent a new financial crisis, systemic failures such as the mixing of investment banking and traditional banking must be eliminated. if banks continue to speculate unhindered, it is only a matter of time before credit institutions are once again on the verge of bankruptcy and have to be bailed out with taxpayers' money.
in writing. − the report is very positive in its open criticism of the economic situation and its clear statement that the monetary policy transmission mechanism i.e. the effectiveness of the ecb's monetary policy on the real commodity market is no longer functioning. the report then foolishly focuses on making recommendations on how monetary policy could be better managed. it can't control anything if the transmission mechanism isn't working at the moment and monetary policy remains ineffective on the rest of the economy. the report also has some schizophrenic features. the omt programme for the purchase of government bonds is praised on the one hand, but condemned on the other. the ecb's monetary policy is also lax, and concerns are expressed about inflation, while it is also mentioned that medium-term inflation expectations encourage the ecb to continue to pump money into the money supply. the report is a symbol of the fact that the fronts are not along the political groups but along the national borders. representatives of the southern countries are in favour of continuing the ecb's policy, while representatives of the 'fiscal north' of europe, including austria, are against the ecb's continued inflationary policy, especially as it has no effect on the real economy anyway, but greatly increases the risk of inflation. i could not agree to such a chaotic report without a half-clear position.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european central bank (ecb) annual report for 2012 as it gives a very clear overview of the ecbʼs work in 2012 and the steps still to be followed up during 2013. in my opinion, the economic situation of europe generally, and that of european banking systems in particular, is still fragile and needs efficient and responsible monitoring and supervision. even though ecb measures and action taken last year as an emergency method to deal with the effects of the financial crisis and to stabilise the euro area had positive results, we should bear in mind that the policy measures were ‘intended to be transitoryʼ. the instruments used to stimulate economic growth and improve the labour market situation ‘revealed their limitsʼ and we should be aware that the euro area needs further support and new measures.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is well known that the lack of financial resources caused by tax evasion and avoidance is offset by the additional financial burden on european citizens. this fact alone should be convincing enough to favour this motion for a resolution. the proposal also provides for an increase in corporate taxation and the promotion of crossborder cooperation between member states to combat tax evasion and avoidance.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. china's organ procurement policy is inhuman and cruel. ngos accuse china of taking valuable organs from death row prisoners for the market, even against the will of the victims. it is estimated that about 3,000 people are sentenced to death in china each year. according to former chinese transplant doctors, the organs are also harvested from living people so that they can continue to circulate as long as possible. i'll spare you the details. the case of the falun gong faith community, whose followers are being targeted and persecuted, is also dramatic for me. they are thus made available to the market as organ donors against their will. these organ harvesting operations are shocking and contradict every notion of human dignity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is good that you are addressing this issue today, and unfortunately you are only addressing it, because with a major trading partner like china, the eu is happy to refrain from taking any firm action. i hope that this time there will be an exception and that the union will take the same firm action against the great economic power china. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking, but i couldn't make out the real question. it was a co-authored paper by you, in which you endorse me. and if you ask the question, is there a market? yes, of course, obviously not everything is free, and of course there is a demand, there are many sick people, and i guess it's not going to be all voluntary and free. so naturally these organs are traded and passed on in a market. that's the answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 26 years of civil war saw the most serious violations of human rights and the geneva convention. this on both sides. however, since 2009, the situation in sri lanka should have stabilized. the de facto rule of the separatist tamil north is over. the government is currently accused of numerous human rights violations - it is estimated that 30,000 people, including many journalists, have been killed or disappeared. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the european union must of course call on the government to clarify this and to stop human rights violations. the union will do the same. it is much easier to beat the small sri lanka on the table than, for example, the great power of china. i will, however, personally take a picture on the spot. i'm going to go to sri lanka, travel the country with my eyes open, make my own picture. i'm very optimistic about the future of this country.
