mr president, we are all concerned at the moment with strengthening our industrial fabric, both to keep businesses in business and to develop new stable jobs in europe. it is therefore important to have european-level tools to minimise the negative impacts of restructuring on the industrial fabric and thus on employment, but also to prepare for the future of our industry. that is why we must support initiatives such as those of our rapporteur and, in particular, give the social dialogue its rightful place in anticipation of restructuring. it is through this concertation that enterprises and sectors will be able to anticipate and adapt to changes in industrial structure in the future. but beyond this recommendation for legislation, which i hope the commission will accept, in the same spirit of fighting restructuring, the union must also support effective and well-equipped european budgetary instruments to support restructuring, such as the esf or the globalisation adjustment fund, which could be given an anticipatory aspect to support restructuring. it would also be necessary to ensure that a competition policy is in place which prevents a company from preferring the destruction of local know-how to the sale of a site to a potential competitor. finally, in the current context of rising unemployment, but also of citizens' scepticism towards the union, this legislative initiative by our colleague mr cercas is, i am sure, likely to give confidence to a project of a europe of solidarity.
in writing. the crisis that we have been experiencing since 2008 has accelerated the change in the practices of our companies. while restructuring and relocation have existed before, it is undeniable that the negative economic environment of recent years has contributed to the proliferation of such practices on our continent. it is therefore urgent that we act now to save our industry and the millions of jobs it creates! it is already too late to worry about the situation of our companies when layoffs are being considered. we must anticipate and establish a permanent social dialogue between workers, management and public authorities. the example of arcelormittal, whose restructuring is affecting hundreds of european families, seems to me to be an encouraging one. the closure of the hot-rolling mill in the liège steelworks, my home town, is particularly moving. i therefore call on the commission to take up the recommendations contained in this report as soon as possible and to translate them into concrete proposals, applicable at eu level, for the well-being of our workers and our economies. thank you.
in writing. the closure of the ford plant in genk will result in the loss of 10,000 jobs by the beginning of next year. this implies that the opportunities for vulnerable young people in the industrial labour market in my region are also being reduced. we need to take initiatives to give young people a new perspective. the youth guarantee is a powerful instrument. of course, we make young people more resilient in the labour market if they can get an education, an internship or a job. but this model also offers a lot of opportunities for the companies themselves to give new talent a chance. new talent that companies can fully draw on once the economy recovers. it is perfectly in line with the proposals in the cercas report. already today, forward-looking enterprises are involving the workers and their representatives in the management of their enterprises. continuing training is an essential part of this. ford has shown us in genk how not to do it. if restructuring is necessary, start the operation much earlier, in close consultation with the employees, so that in cooperation with the government additional training opportunities are created for the affected employees. it's the only way to find another job quickly, inside or outside the company.
in writing. with youth unemployment in the eu at 21% and with peaks in spain and greece of 55%, it is high time for a hard-hitting approach. the problem with the commission's proposal is that the drawing up of a youth guarantee scheme is a matter for the member states and is also non-binding because it is only a recommendation. this is a problem, because advice alone will not solve youth unemployment! what we need is a genuine european approach. and that also means that the youth guarantee must be financed mainly from european funds. i would therefore like to hear from the committee how it intends to use the european social fund for this purpose. and of the member states how they will ensure that the european social fund will also have sufficient resources for the next seven years. in 2011, 7.5 million young people in the eu aged 15-24 were not in employment, training or further education. this costs the economy €150 billion each year, while the total cost of a youth guarantee in the eurozone would be €21 billion. i'm pretty sure i'm just a quick calculator, you know?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i visited cyprus in spring last year, and i wondered how the country would deal with the eu presidency. a small island with so much diversity looks like europe in a nutshell. there are greek cypriots, turkish cypriots, and next to them there are russians, british, lebanese and many other people running around in your country. i admit that i was also sceptical because you, mr christofias, are a long-standing communist. you were trained at the party school in moscow in the 1970s. that sounds scary to european conservatives. you are in fact the first, and i presume the last, communist rotating president of the eu. but you are also the only communist i know who is against the financial transaction tax, so please convince your comrades over there. they are very close to you. at the end of your presidency – i want to be honest mr president – i think you, your government and your officials did very well. let me address you in the language of vladimir ilyich lenin: (the speaker spoke in russian)since russian, madam president, is not yet an official language of the eu, i can say that i thanked the president for the good work and wished him a blossoming cyprus. unfortunately cyprus is not blossoming now; in fact, it is in need of a bail-out. mr president, you are going from the rouble to the rubble. if there is a bail-out, the debt of cyprus will jump to 150% of gdp, so whom are we bailing out: you or the russian billionaires? cyprus established a good record as rotating president. there is a budget for this year. progress has been made on banking supervision. the single european patent was agreed after 30 years. one dossier remains stuck, however: the two-pack to assure fiscal discipline in the eurozone. that is not your fault, mr president; it is our fault. the parliament should approve this piece of legislation soon. but, oddly enough, it is held to ransom by the leader of the liberal group mr verhofstadt. he demands mutualisation of debt like redemption funds and eurobonds in return. now i have known mr verhofstadt for about 20 years and mostly it has been a pleasure, because life would be boring without him, would it not, mr barroso? but it struck me that he always wants to jump from a to z whereas he is not able to get from a to b. to get proper underpinning for the euro, we need the two-pack. we need to progress step by step from a to b to c and so on. so i appeal to the liberal group to approve this two-pack. sir graham watson, you are listening to me i presume? practise what you preach, please. so, mr president, ... (the speaker spoke in russian)(the speaker agreed to take a blue card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i was just trying to be kind to the president. the president studied in moscow at the party school, so i am sure that he speaks and understands russian. i should be allowed to use just a few phrases, for hospitality’s sake. i do not understand the question. i was not insulting or invasive in any way. i also spoke within my speaking time, by the way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not a member of the efd. the chair of the efd, mr farage, should be here but is not. i am a member of the ecr and i am very constructive with regard to the six-pack. i have always been and i voted in favour of the six-pack unlike some people on the other side of this house. i am also in favour of the two-pack and i agree with the president here that the two-pack is needed. it is needed now.
in writing. in voting this resolution, parliament expressed its ambitions for urban redevelopment as they should be developed in the next cohesion policy programming for 2014-2020 (a minimum of 5% of european regional development fund funding will now be devoted to sustainable urban development). i welcome this because attention to urban development is essential when we know that cities are home to two thirds of the european population and that the problems of unemployment, poverty, discrimination and ageing are rife in them! the resolution aims to present a european plan for cities through the intelligent use of the new resources of cohesion policy and the structural funds. the development of such a plan would provide a legal basis defining common long-term objectives and optimise the use of these funds. it emphasises, among other things, better energy efficiency in buildings and the renovation of suburbs. the resolution also calls for action to rebuild the fabric of existing urban areas, including marginalised areas, and to promote the functional reconversion of derelict sites and conversion areas.
in writing. currently, 80% of european citizens live in urban areas and this trend is growing. cities are the main focus of the effects of the economic crisis, the challenges of combating climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life. while cities are the engines of the economy, production and employment, they are the context in which the problems of suburbanisation and, more generally, social exclusion and segregation, as well as environmental pollution, are manifested. i am therefore convinced that this important issue must be dealt with at european level, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that urban areas should develop medium- or long-term action plans in the fields of economic, social and territorial cohesion. 80% of european citizens live in urban areas. this number is growing, given the acceleration of migration from rural to urban areas. cities are the main focus of the effects of the economic crisis and the challenges of combating climate change, creating jobs, well-being and quality of life. to ensure the social and economic recovery of cities, it is therefore necessary to rethink the methodologies of the urban and spatial planning sector, by comparing planning methods and intervention instruments. this can enrich environmental, spatial planning, trade, transport and traffic policies through a mixed use of land that integrates physical infrastructure and intangible networks.
in writing. - have we not learned our lesson yet? the cozzolino report is a pile of good intentions that lead straight to hell or something like it, for example the generous european studies for street scenes depicting flying gorillas. not a joke, but a sad reality, by the way. of course, "europe" does not have a monopoly on ill-considered or foolish subsidies or on taxpayer money that is wasted. but cities and municipalities, local authorities and even national governments have a more or less efficient control mechanism and are also held accountable for their policies. europe, on the other hand, is a far-from-my-bed show and the commission is dismissing all questions with a shrug or an arrogant answer of 'it is within the rules so it is allowed'. that's not a democracy anymore. more subsidiarity, please, also in action now.
in writing. territorial development plays a key role in cohesion policy in encouraging the creation of new sustainable jobs by smes and in the development of vocational training programmes. in addition, better territorial cooperation and the development of better adapted macro-regional strategies could prove to be effective tools for addressing regional disparities, such as unequal access to education and employment. however, despite many efforts by the european union, these disparities persist and widen the gap between regions. therefore, it is important to maintain the budget for cohesion policy at its current level after 2013 in order to ensure continued support for regions in need of social and economic recovery throughout the union. to achieve this, a fully integrated approach to project implementation instruments, such as local development strategies led by local actors, integrated territorial investments and joint action plans, would be appropriate.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mr derek vaughan. the report focuses on finding effective mechanisms to create synergies between the union's funding programmes under the commission's common strategic framework. it seems to me clear that the complementarity between funding programmes will improve the efficiency of union funding at local and regional level. this document therefore provides examples of mechanisms currently in place, or planned to be implemented, in the regions of the union.
in writing. the eusf is the main instrument of the union's solidarity and financial support to member states or regions affected by major disasters. however, changes are needed to make it as efficient as possible and to make union assistance on the ground more visible and effective. to achieve this, it is imperative that the fund-raising and administrative procedures are significantly speeded up. in other words, the time between the time when the disaster occurs and the time when the member state (or region) receives the aid must be reduced. i think that prepayments are a good solution. however, due to the financial crisis, the proposed amendment should not entail any additional financial burden for the union budget and the member states' budgets. the commission must also be more flexible in accepting aid applications: it rejected 66% of them, as the majority of them were presented as regional disasters. it is also essential to clarify the scope and coverage of the fund, removing any legal uncertainty.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur that the fund must be able to intervene in exceptional circumstances, even if the disaster does not reach the eligibility threshold. but i am also well aware that, in view of the instruments currently available, it is very difficult to respond adequately to major crises of non-natural origin. following the devastating floods in central europe in 2002, the union, lacking the means to respond to the affected population and to assist the member state affected by a disaster, created a new instrument: the european union solidarity fund. since then, the regulation, which was designed at the time, has not been modified in any way to adapt it to new needs and to correct certain shortcomings in its functioning which have been observed in the ten years of its existence. in recent years, the commission has received an increasing number of applications, which is due to the increase in the number of disasters and the current regulations, the lack of which makes it impossible to eliminate uncertainties as to the possible coverage and admissibility of applications related to disasters and submitted under the exceptional standards for so-called 'extraordinary regional disasters'.
in writing. - i had some doubts before i adopted this report. i am not opposed to a european solidarity fund in principle, and the report contains some proposals to make a significant improvement in the way the fund operates, all the better. we must nevertheless continue to ask ourselves how effective the excessive use of euro-bureaucratization is. i 'll stick to it . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the midst of the crisis, we are also deciding to keep the fund's resources at the same level for the coming years. that's not wise. i fear that the reality of the economic crisis will soon overtake us.
in writing. the european union is now increasingly developing its powers, which are bringing its citizens into contact with its administration. however, they still do not have procedural rights to defend themselves against the union. as one of the cornerstones of my policy, european justice should be able to be legitimately used by the citizens of the member states and their regions. i therefore supported the vote for a codification of the principle of service and the granting of european administrative procedural law. in doing so, the union and its citizens will both benefit: the union will benefit from a more efficient administration; and they'll be able to trust the latter.
in writing. why did i vote in favour of this text? with the development of the union's powers, citizens are increasingly confronted directly with the european administration, without always having the corresponding procedural rights which they could exercise against it in cases where this would prove necessary. in my view, citizens are entitled to the same level of transparency, efficiency, speed of implementation and responsiveness from the union administration, whether they are lodging a formal complaint or exercising their right to petition under the treaty; and the commission should ensure that information is provided to complainants or petitioners about the possibility of taking further action in the case concerning them. the existing union rules and principles on good administration are dispersed in a variety of sources: primary law, case law of the court of justice of the european union, secondary law, non-binding legislation and unilateral commitments of the union institutions. the union does not have a coherent and complete set of codified rules of administrative law and must remedy this!
in writing. − it is time to work on a european framework for a contemporary approach to business restructuring. we are not advocating a pathetic initiative to impose all kinds of extra rules on entrepreneurs. - no, it's the opposite. employers and employees should anticipate restructuring much more closely. this includes in particular: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given greater attention to the training of employees to improve their opportunities inside or outside the company in the event of restructuring. the brutal closure of the ford plant in genk is certainly not of this era. the car assembly industry has been warning for years about overcapacity. we need to sit down much earlier in such cases, the employers, the employees and the government, to determine how, through additional training, the impact of such a dramatic closure can be mitigated. that is in the interests of all concerned. these proposals are already clearly set out in the 2010 social agenda. it's time to turn them into action now. it is also a prerequisite for giving the 'new industrial revolution' that the european commission wants to launch a chance of success.
restructuring is a phenomenon which is tending to spread due to the economic crisis. it is usually considered too late. anticipation is the key to stability and competitiveness. companies must be encouraged to anticipate the restructuring required by modernisation, excess capacity and structural adjustment. this is the only way for restructuring to be successful not only economically but above all socially, since human resources must remain at the heart of the strategic development of enterprises.
in writing. corporate restructuring is one of the most significant phenomena of globalisation, responsible for the loss of almost six and a half million jobs in the struggling construction and manufacturing sectors between 2008 and 2011. it is with seriousness, but also with a sense of responsibility, that the european parliament adopted the cercas report this afternoon. in general, it agrees with the diagnosis made by the commission in its october 2010 communication on industrial policy: 'improving the anticipation and management of restructuring would help workers and businesses to adapt to transitions ...'. but, as is often the case, the remedies are lacking, as is the inability in many member states to bring about the sacred union between intermediary bodies when social circumstances so require. the european union would do well to adopt the german model of 'co-management', which gives employees' representatives a recognised and important place on company management boards. the industrial health of germany largely validates the value of its model of social relations which should become one of the tools of the "highly competitive social market economy", piously cited in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − a strong social dialogue based on mutual trust and shared responsibility is the best instrument for anticipating, preventing and managing enterprise restructuring processes. i agree with mr cercas on this. the european commission must now present a legislative proposal on the provision of information and consultation to employees, and the prevention and management of restructuring. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. extensive training rights for workers and a quality reintegration policy must become the standard in europe. at the same time, the eu must also give workers the rights and opportunities to face changes in the business world with confidence. employers and employees may agree on this in collective agreements. but even if that does not happen, a european directive should guarantee minimum rights for workers. the reintegration of workers should not start at the moment of their dismissal. they should be given the opportunity to train throughout their careers so that they can move more easily from job to job. the european commission must now respond to the european parliament's request and then make a proposal together with the social partners.
in writing. i am a strong supporter of a strong social dialogue, based on mutual trust and shared responsibility, as the best way to find consensual solutions and common approaches to anticipate, prevent and manage restructuring. these practices are becoming more and more common, owing to economic difficulties, and have become more widespread in recent years, taking various forms, intensifying in certain sectors and gaining new ones, and are having unforeseeable consequences for the economic and social fabric of the member states. they often have dramatic consequences for individuals and are too often downplayed by the industrial and financial sectors, whereas without man there is no production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to congratulate mr tannock on his thorough and interesting report on eu policy on the horn of africa. it is a good report and it is interesting, for example, that the danger of the advance of islamism and islamic terrorism in africa is mentioned in this report. it is equally good, and this is a strange thing, that it is explicitly stated that developing countries should not be given blank cheques, millions of euros in unconditional development aid, because in the end it is the european taxpayer who has to pay for it and that this must also be accounted for, for example in the form of an adequate food strategy for those countries. but i always say: not words, but deeds! i remember that ethiopia, for example, received no less than 400 million dollars in development aid from the european union in the period 2004-08, and that all the parliamentary questions i asked about the misuse and inadequate use of these funds were ignored by the commission. i am afraid that some scepticism about the practical consequences of this report is justified.
in writing. the resolution is unbalanced and does not reflect the situation with regard to the 'considerations' and articles relating to ethiopia. it shows a relative knowledge of the reality in the horn of africa. it deliberately ignores the challenges facing ethiopia. it also ignores the role that this country has played and still plays in promoting stability in the region. it is not acceptable, in the name of ethics, to use the death of prime minister meles zenawi as a working basis for a constructive dialogue and to present oneself as a trusted partner. that's certainly not a good approach. prime minister meles zenawi was considered a national and international leader, even by ethiopians who did not share his views and did not agree with his policies. in addition, the transition process towards the appointment of a southern, protestant prime minister from a party other than that of the former prime minister was conducted in a remarkable manner. ethiopia deserves praise for the way it handled this difficult period. there is no reason not to give the new prime minister credit.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the european union strategy for the horn of africa, which was adopted by the european parliament this afternoon. this unbalanced text does not reflect the reality on a number of important points, notably ethiopia. the resolution deliberately ignores the challenges facing the country. it also ignores the role that ethiopia has played and is still playing in promoting stability in the region. it is also not acceptable in the name of ethics to use the death of prime minister méles zenawi as a working basis for a constructive dialogue and to present oneself as a trusted partner. prime minister meles zenawi was considered a national and international leader, even by ethiopians who did not share his ideas or actions. in addition, the transition process towards the appointment of a southern, protestant prime minister from a party other than that of the former prime minister was conducted in a remarkable manner. ethiopia deserves credit for the way it has handled this difficult period, and i see no reason not to give credit to the new prime minister.
in writing. the horn of africa is one of the most food insecure regions in the world. millions of people in the region suffer from malnutrition and are threatened by famine. this geographical region includes some of the countries with the lowest sanitation standards and is also one of the regions of the world where poverty and lack of governance are most pronounced. the insecurity of the population and food insecurity in particular are leading to serious humanitarian crises. it is clear that the international community has failed to take preventive measures to deal with the problems of the security of the population, drought and famine on the ground. the text does not seek to promote european neo-colonialism, but to provide adequate support while respecting the values of this continent.
in writing. the european parliament believes that the eu should help developing countries to benefit from their genetic resources and traditional knowledge and, in its resolution adopted today, set out the measures it recommends to combat biopiracy (i.e. the lucrative use by multinational companies of medicinal substances and traditional remedies from developing countries without the permission of the latter and without the benefit of the populations who discovered these active ingredients). the challenge is significant because, despite the existence of international agreements to protect the rights of indigenous peoples to their genetic resources and traditional knowledge, there is no mechanism to enforce them. however, 90% of the world's biological heritage is in developing countries, while the vast majority of patents are held by developed countries and 70% of the world's poor depend directly on biological diversity for their survival and well-being.
in writing. biopiracy is a subject that is close to my heart. the protection and conservation of genetic diversity are key elements in the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources are particularly crucial for sustainable agriculture and food security. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important aspects for the survival of species and the resilience of the ecosystem. as a result, the depletion of genetic diversity, which is an integral part of the process of erosion of biological diversity, is a fundamental issue for humanity. despite its crucial importance for the survival of humanity, genetic diversity is being depleted at a very worrying rate. such erosion of diversity poses new challenges to both holders and users of genetic resources, the former being most often in developing countries rich in biological diversity, and the latter in developed countries. the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger and the promotion of biodiversity and healthy ecosystems for agriculture, forestry and fisheries in a sustainable development perspective are therefore very important issues.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the chancellor for his inspiring speech. i think this is a good time to talk about the future of europe and to hear a net contributor giving some good arguments against another net contributor from the other side of the channel. you can see that one net contributor is not the same as another. i have to say – and, mr faymann, i think you mentioned this in an interview a few days ago – that i can also see a lot of confusion about the future of europe across the channel. this is not because of the traditional fog but because apparently mr cameron is having difficulty in agreeing with himself on the content. but he has already made an agreement with himself on the date and the place for his ‘historic’ speech. it has to be a historic speech on friday on the future of europe, ‘better’ than margaret thatcher’s speech in bruges. nevertheless i read once again the speech margaret thatcher gave in bruges in 1988. i have to tell you that it was a very pro-european speech. she said and i quote, ‘we have to do more together’. that is exactly the opposite of what mr cameron wants to do on friday. let me, in this debate and in the presence of mr faymann, reply to mr cameron because we already know what he will say on friday. i think that i can say in the name of the majority in this house that there can be no question about an individual renegotiation by a single member state, not by britain and not by any other country in the european union. there is a simple reason for that. we need one european union, a single european union, and not a european union à la carte as we have today with the opt-ins, opt-outs, derogations, exceptions and rebates. believe me, i think that what is killing the union today is that union à la carte. you have a union of the six, that is the founding fathers. you have the union of the 12, that is the minimum number required to start with the fiscal compact. you have the union of the 15 and you have the union of the 17, that is the euro area. you also have the union of the 25, which is the european patent and schengen, and we have the ‘normal’ union, the union of the 27. you have to recognise that the union is a strange animal. some member states are not obliged to participate in union policies, whereas other countries, outside the union, are invited and allowed to participate in our policies. take schengen as an example. switzerland is part of schengen but britain, part of the union, is not part of schengen. how can you explain that to citizens? a europe à la carte where you pick and choose. well, i can tell you that a renegotiation by the uk and by any other country can only make this worse. moreover, i think that a european union à la carte, as mr cameron will tell us on friday, can only kill the single market. if you can pick and choose, what will be left of the single market? for example if the french say that they like industrial policy and that they do not like the competition rules or the germans say that they like the single market in goods but not the single market in services, what will be left of the single market? let us be honest and let mr cameron be honest about it. a renegotiation of the kind he wants means in fact either a ‘brexit’ or the end of the single market and in fact the end of the european union. colleagues, this is not in the interests of our citizens and certainly not in the interests of british citizens because it can only lead to the disappearance of the single market or to second-class membership for britain, something between mr cameron and norway and switzerland, countries that pay but have no say. i think that this is stupidity for a country with 53% of its exports going to the continent and to the rest of europe. it is so stupid that britain’s best friend, the us, has not been able to understand it at all in recent days and weeks. let me conclude. we do not need an individual renegotiation to reduce what we have in common. what we need is exactly the opposite of what mr cameron will tell us on friday. we need a common effort to establish a more integrated europe because, if we want to face all the challenges which mr faymann rightly mentioned in his speech, only with a more integrated europe can we face these challenges, and not with individual renegotiations by one or other member state of the union. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam high representative, thank you for your information. it is more than a year since our friends in mali have been calling for help at the acp meetings in which i am taking part. actually, since the fall of colonel gaddafi. i would not say, as my colleague salafranca does, that this is a side effect of the arab spring. it's a side effect of the war in libya where, at some point, criminal gangs not all islamists are criminal gangs and terrorists; they are fundamentalists, but they are not terrorists, but here we are dealing with criminal gangs like al qaeda, who profit from kidnapping, drug trafficking and human trafficking. we knew this during the libyan war, and our friends in mali said, "but why don't you stop them? why don't you stop them from crossing the border?" they crossed the border, they allied themselves with the tuaregs - the latter having received promises, not fulfilled, of development - and we know the rest. but the follow-up has been, for the last six months now, to say that there will be an african force, that there will be a european union mission; and then finally, the rebels came forward and france did what it had to do... i commend the courage of france and the french government, because they were the first and the only ones to take action! they are not alone today, fortunately, and i hope that the psd mission will be set up. i hope the african union will be there. but in any case, in this band that goes from somalia to burkina faso, which is a band of terrorists if i may say so, mr salafranca, and not of islamists, but of terrorists and criminals, if we do not put an end to what is happening, if we do not restore the rule of law, we will create a blood-curdling situation throughout africa. i therefore thank france for the courage it has shown and i thank you, madam high representative, for the support we can give it. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, like all the speakers who have spoken so far, i welcome the french intervention. i would like to stress that my country, belgium, is one of those supporting this initiative, both materially and in terms of manpower, even though it is not combat troops. a military initiative is never easy, and i believe that those who seem to imply that it is sometimes easy are giving an overly optimistic interpretation of reality. military intervention is never easy, but sometimes it has to be done. and it is certain that we cannot tolerate an extremist, terrorist threat so close to our own territories. the lives of malians themselves, of course, and of all the people in the region are also at stake. i think we can still dream. it would also be welcome if muslim voices were raised to condemn the use of religion for political purposes.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr domenici, for his excellent work and for the good result. the credit rating agencies were at the root of the financial crisis, first because for years they promoted junk credit as a safe investment and then because the markets followed the advice of the credit rating agencies almost blindly, which devalued government bonds at the drop of a hat, with the result of course a huge increase in interest costs for a significant number of member states, borne by the ordinary taxpayer. that also contributed to the euro crisis. in other words, we must stop depending on these rating agencies. i am glad to see that in the coming years the reference to ratings in legislation we ourselves make will be deleted, because we have actually made those rating agencies themselves more important over the years by requiring institutions, banks and insurance companies to buy products with a certain rating. the rating agencies must not be allowed to come out with their ratings and with changes at any time - that is also important - to avoid interference with the political debate. they will be held accountable. conflicts of interest are addressed and competition is encouraged. the creation of the european agency is also envisaged. all things we should support.
mr president, at the risk of playing the "piss-a-vinegar" game in this matter, i am not shouting for joy at the adoption of this legislation. i would simply like to put to you, commissioner, three points which we feel are not sufficiently addressed by this legislation. firstly, the rating agencies are still very much paid by the issuers of the ratings, and so we are clearly in a conflict of interest situation, in the sense that it is the students who pay the teachers who are responsible for rating them. it's not really healthy. secondly, we are still in an oligopoly situation, with three agencies controlling 95% of the rating market. thirdly, we have not, so far, succeeded in sufficiently reducing the quasi-legislative or regulatory role of the ratings provided by these private agencies. from this point of view, i look forward to cra4, but it is true that these are difficult problems to solve and i would have liked to hear from you about the avenues you intend to explore to solve them once and for all.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january 2013, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. this is a text that is going in the right direction. the three existing rating agencies are acting like gods before whom the member states tremble. with each prediction, governments fill the altar with offerings often involving the destinies of many of their citizens. we can no longer be held hostage by these agencies, by such opaque private companies. they have only the power that is given to them, a power based on the fear they cause. i am a strong advocate of healthier, fairer, more transparent and above all more independent ratings that would become indicators rather than threats. at present, when a credit agency downgrades a country's debt rating, that country has to borrow at higher interest rates. the resulting budget cuts to offset high borrowing rates hit ordinary citizens hardest. the downgrade of the credit rating of nine euro area countries by standard & poor's in january 2012 led markets to speculate on the break-up of the euro area. the new rules are designed to prevent this scenario from happening again.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by sylvie goulard, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds (com (2011) 0818 - 2012/2028 (ini)) (a7-0402/2012)
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, happy new year to you. you're still a master of the understatement. frankly, when you say that growth is a little soft, i feel that growth is a little non-existent, mostly. but i can see the usual optimistic in you. i'll tell you this: there is no solution for a monetary union like the euro zone without sharing sovereignty and without sharing financial resources, without, in some way, sharing things, taking risks, including financial ones, for each other. the commission understood this very quickly, because we know very well that you were among the first to put forward proposals for debt mutualisation and we find these proposals again in the roadmap, in the blue print, which the commission has recently released. parliament, as this report shows, has also understood this. so there is a thief missing from the fair, and that is the council, and the thief is not even there, which is not surprising. the council does not consider that there is any question of financial pooling. the answer is often given in one word, "no". the answer to the question of debt mutualisation, eurobonds, eurobills, redemption funds is "no, no, no". mr van rompuy understood this well and so he took another proposal out of his pocket: "let's make a budget for the euro zone, let's have a common financial instrument at the euro zone level, which is another form of financial mutualisation", saying "if it doesn't work through the door of eurobonds, let's do it through the budget window". the answer was "no". so herman said, "i'm putting my proposal back in my pocket". the third proposal, the one put forward by the council in june, has therefore been retained. well, let us allow the recapitalisation, at least the direct recapitalisation, of the banks in difficulty through a common european rescue fund. the answer was 'yes, but only if each member state remains responsible for its part'. in other words, we're in your corner, but as long as it doesn't cost us anything. and so, obviously, we've, i think, gotten off on the wrong foot. i hope that the council will hear the combined voice of parliament and the commission, but i admit that i have my doubts about that.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. langen, how i love you. you may be a caricature at times, but at least you are adding to the atmosphere of this house. mr langen, you are completely caricaturing mrs goulard's report and, of course, i am not going to answer you because it would be a waste of my time. i'm just going to ask you one thing - and i'm not even sure we need an answer - do you think germany will be prosperous for long if the eurozone and the member states of the european union collapse economically one after the other? it's never good for a supplier to strangle his customers. that is what germany is doing. i wish you luck.
it has the merit of being clear.
madam president, if we follow the road map of ms goulard, the eu will be in the same position as belgium now: a transfer economy whose political foundations are crumbling because solidarity became a one-way street. the rapporteur talks about stability bonds, which bring instability. i call them ‘goulard bonds’. why am i against ‘goulard bonds’? first, mutualisation of debt cannot cure the loss of competitiveness. on the contrary, it is a sleeping pill. secondly, ‘goulard bonds’ are the highway to a transfer economy in the eurozone. we need a rule-based eurozone, not a transfer zone. thirdly, the issue of democracy to which the rapporteur attaches most importance: voters of the eurozone member states should have the final say on a possible introduction of ‘goulard bonds’. they should be subject to referenda. and fourthly, i appeal to ms goulard and her group to approve the two-pack instead of holding it to ransom for ‘goulard bonds’. the victim of this blackmail is the eurozone and its much needed fiscal discipline.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january 2013, at noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr alfredo pallone, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the report on public finances in the emu in 2011 and 2012 [2011/2274 (ini) ] - (a7-0425/2012).
madam president, let me first stress that i support the overall tone of mr pallone’s report. most eurozone member states urgently need credible strategies for budgetary consolidation. high levels of public debt do not provide scope for more fiscal stimulus. consolidation should be based on cutting government over-spending rather than on increasing taxes. consolidation should also go hand in hand with structural reform, like more flexible labour markets. even france is taking the first small steps towards reforming the labour market, but more is needed. i congratulate the french employers association medef on its leading role. unfortunately there are some weaker points in the report, probably as a result of too much compromising to the left. these include a role for the eu budget to reduce macroeconomic and social imbalances and, more importantly, the european youth guarantee, which would only introduce more rigidities in the labour market and more thresholds. it is very difficult to promise jobs that do not exist. it will produce a counterproductive impact. it is a typical unintended consequence of a good intention and therefore my group prefers to abstain.
on behalf of the s&d group, i must say that i cannot tell from the commissioner's answer whether the new interpretation is valid or not. that's not entirely clear to me. my group has two reasons for being concerned about this issue. the first is procedural and the second is substantive. as regards procedure, we are still surprised that the commission has apparently unilaterally changed its own interpretation on a point which is nonetheless crucial, namely whether or not those gigaliners, those monster trucks, those large lorries, which clearly do not comply with the restrictions imposed by the measures and weights directive, should be allowed to cross internal borders. after you yourself had first made it clear in a number of answers to questions from colleagues that this was not the case, you have now switched sides. we believe that this is not a matter of detail and that the legislator should have a say in this. we understand that we will be able to do this, but in the meantime it is not clear what the status of the current legislation, or at least the new interpretation, is. we want to await the democratic debate on this and ask you to put your idea into a legislative amendment. secondly, of course, there is the content. we believe that encouraging larger trucks is contrary to the objectives of the white paper which calls for a modal shift from road transport to more sustainable means of transport over longer distances. this will be more beneficial to the road transport sector and will require heavy investment in infrastructure and may also compromise road safety. for all these reasons, we ask you to abandon your plans and concentrate on other, more important matters.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group very much welcome ireland’s presidency and its experience. after all, it is not the first time that ireland has undertaken it and i can tell you will need all your skill to make progress. why? because i think the most important task that we have now is to fight what i call complacency in the union for the moment. the fight against complacency should be your first and most important task because that is what threatens the union today. there are many member states and there are many national political leaders who think they can escape this crisis by doing nothing at all. they wonder if it is really necessary to do more and have greater integration of the european union to solve this crisis. is it not simpler to follow the miracle man, mr draghi? is that not enough? i think that they are wrong and that we need structural solutions and that you, mr kenny, as the leader of a country that has suffered strongly because of the crisis, must remind your colleagues in the council of the importance of establishing permanent solutions, structural solutions, a more integrated europe, a fiscal union, a banking union, an economic union and finally also a political union. so i think that would be an enormous achievement in the next six months instead of them thinking, that the crisis is over and that it is not necessary to go further in the direction of a more integrated europe; you have to say: stop, no, it is wrong. the experience of ireland is i think a good experience to show to them. i want to come in on three specific issues: the further strengthening of the stability pact (the two-pack). a proposal was carried out by a majority in this house and it was sent in december of last year to the commission, so we wait for a response. i think we can find a solution if the commission can take over what we have sent to them. secondly, the single supervisory mechanisms; we have to be sure at the end that it is a genuinely european mechanism and not an amalgamation of national supervisors and also in that area, mr kenny, i think that you can show – with the irish experience – how a good european single supervisor should have solved problems in advance which ireland is facing today. finally, the most important thing in the next six months is work from the commission that can be influenced by you and your experience: i refer to the resolution mechanism. i have to tell you that we will have no banking union if we do not have a serious resolution fund; we all agree on that. i do not think that there is a misunderstanding about that but what i see as a first draft reported by the ft worries me deeply. it may interest our british colleagues to hear something about the resolution mechanism. mr president of the commission, what i have seen in the ft is not a real european mechanism. it has to be a european mechanism and not member states who are still responsible for their banking debt. it has to split banking debt from sovereigns. my conclusion is to apply your experience, mr kenny. i think what is good for ireland can be good for europe.
madam president, welcome to the prime minister. you yourself said that external relations are not exactly the domain of the rotating presidency, but you mentioned your historical experience in mediation. you have succeeded in making peace between separate communities and in bringing groups, formerly called terrorists, into politics and into quite peaceful relations. this is extremely valuable for the european union. it's valuable in the conflicts we face, and especially in the middle east. i know that your country, together with malta and luxembourg, was one of the first to support mahmoud abbas in his appeal to the un. this is an important point. let me tell you a word, though, about savita halappavanar. we haven't talked about it. this is the young indian woman who died of a miscarriage in ireland after agonizing for three days asking for an abortion. mr president, for us european women, this question of choosing the time of pregnancy is not a matter of religion, which we respect, nor of subsidiarity. it's a matter of right and freedom. we will fight for these rights and freedoms to be shared in europe. the fact that 40 000 irish women are still going abroad for abortions is not acceptable to european women's rights. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. a revision of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) was necessary to ensure the protection of health and the environment. the amendment fills the legal gaps and the lack of regulation on dangerous preparations. the gap in the conditions for protecting the confidentiality of technical information, which is governed by intellectual property law, is now filled by this revision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the recast of the dangerous preparations directive makes it possible to update the proposal for a directive, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, to replace the old obsolete provisions with new ones, including updating the legal basis.
in writing. the mediterranean is the most overfished sea in the world. the seriousness of the situation - more than 54% of mediterranean fish stocks studied by scientists are considered to be overfished - has justified the establishment of a binding legal framework at european level, adopted in 2006. since 1 june 2010, the regulation has applied to the member states concerned. as is often the case, some countries are not playing the game and today's vote in the european parliament on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean is timely. it was important that meps, by amending the legislation on fisheries in the mediterranean, support an ambitious approach to greater sustainability of fisheries and better protection of natural resources. this makes all the more sense as the reform of the common fisheries policy will be voted on at the next plenary session. the fisheries committee set the tone by advocating a major reform: a war on overfishing, an end to discards and the trading of annual quotas. all that's left is to turn the trial in three weeks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i hope that with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regionalised framework will make it possible to find quickly an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean, which will be accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, while taking into account the specificities of this sea basin, but also ensuring in an effective way the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment. since the conservation aspect is essential, it should be included in the title of the regulation.
in writing. biodiversity has long been a major concern of the european union. as early as the 1990s and 2000s, the convention on biological diversity (cbd) and the cartagena protocol on the prevention of biological hazards were drafted to ensure the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) that have the potential to cause adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or that present a priori a risk to human health. the adoption of the nagoya kuala lumpur additional protocol in 2010 was seen as a victory for the protection of all the planet's threatened ecosystems and for the fight against the extinction of certain animal and plant species. in 2010, a major agreement was also adopted on "access and benefit-sharing" (abs), regulating the sharing of profits by the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries from genetic resources from the "biodiversity reservoir" of the south. i think that these profits from the manufacture of medicines, cosmetics or food resources represent billions which should be used as funds for the developing countries.
in writing. the nagoya kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and reparation will make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. in line with the eu environmental liability directive adopted in 2004, the additional protocol specifically addresses liability and redress for damage to biodiversity caused by lmos. i agree with the text of my colleague matthias groote and with the council decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the nagoya - kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and reparation, as regards matters falling within the union's competence. it is a good thing that most member states have signed the additional protocol. i would urge them to ratify the text as soon as possible.
in writing. despite recent economic and budgetary reforms, the european union is still suffering from the financial crisis. it will be saved by a wide-ranging action to provide a symmetrical response to excessive macro-financial imbalances and to strengthen the general level of socio-economic convergence and solidarity within economic and monetary union (emu). this action is based mainly on long-term fiscal consolidation. for example, the latter will encourage the reduction of unproductive expenditure and greater flexibility in the labour market; this will help to stimulate growth in the medium term. moreover, they will make it possible, above all, to regulate the excessive debt and deficit in which most member states are mired. but it is essential that an emphasis on sustainable growth, economic development and social protection should go hand in hand with these improvements. the key message is therefore to mitigate the short-term recessionary effects while aiming to stimulate medium-term growth factors such as the optimisation of training programmes and the reduction of youth unemployment.
in writing. - the vote is clear. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step towards the creation of a single currency. this vote marks a major turning point, because the conservative-liberal majority in the european commission and the council of ministers has been blind to the negative effects of austerity on the economy in recent years. the right-wing parties in the european parliament were equally uncritical of the austerity policy pursued. slowly but surely, they are beginning to realize that their strategy is not working. for the first time in the european parliament there is a majority in favour of a more critical tone. at the end of 2012, budget commissioner olli rehn called several times for a more flexible application of european budgetary standards to stimulate public investment. the tone of the european debate is changing. now for the policy. we need to get our budgets in order, but at a slower pace so we don't prolong the recession unnecessarily. we must give the euro countries more time to reduce their budget deficits and more room for sustainable and social investment.
in writing. the economic, financial and banking crisis has not diminished in intensity. problems affecting public finances undermine socioeconomic development and political stability. the euro area government debt to gdp ratio increased from 86.2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 88.2% in the first quarter of 2012. it appears that the recent reforms of the eu's economic and budgetary governance framework cannot, on their own, solve the crisis. large-scale action is needed to provide a symmetrical response to excessive macro-financial imbalances and to strengthen the overall level of socio-economic convergence and solidarity of the economic and monetary union. i remain very concerned that, despite reform and consolidation efforts by member states, tensions persist in the euro area sovereign bond markets, as evidenced by the large yield spreads and high volatility of interest rates. i see the immediate trigger and the root cause of this as concerns on the financial markets about the soundness of public and private sector finances in some euro area countries.
in writing. today's vote follows strong criticism of the rating agencies, which were accused of not seeing the 2008 financial crisis coming in the first place, and then of having fuelled the sovereign debt crisis by downgrading the ratings of several member states without clear justification, threatening the euro area with implosion for a time. i therefore welcome the adoption of this new regulation (already the third since the introduction of a european framework for credit rating agencies!) which introduces a stricter framework for credit rating agencies. these new rules will, i hope, help to prevent the interference of rating agencies in the european agenda. in particular, they will be required to adhere to three unsolicited sovereign ratings per year. they will also have to explain their methodology in the future. evaluations will have to be made on fixed dates and agencies will no longer be able to match their ratings to policy recommendations for governments. they will therefore have to be more transparent and will be held liable in civil cases of intentional error or negligence. i regret, however, that the text does not go far enough to combat the domination of the 'big three' (standard and poor's, moody's, fitch) over almost the entire market.
in writing. in these times of financial crisis, rating agencies have more power than ever: they can, on the basis of an increasingly standardised analysis, devalue a country's creditworthiness, with the consequences we are experiencing today. these powers make european economies dependent on their ratings. it is therefore imperative that we free ourselves from this and that we have a more transparent and regular assessment of our debts, especially sovereign debts: they will be obliged to provide a detailed report on the reasons for their assessment and to return it within a given period. in addition, the european securities and markets authority (esma) could act as a watchdog for those agencies by monitoring their activities and ensuring the diversity of their valuation methods by promoting competition between agencies and, where appropriate, administering sanctions. in order to reduce our dependency, the participation of credit rating agencies in rated entities will be limited in order to eliminate conflicts of interest.
in writing. this is a text that is going in the right direction. the three existing rating agencies are acting like gods before whom the member states tremble. with each prediction, governments fill the altar with offerings often involving the destinies of many of their citizens. we can no longer be held hostage by these agencies, by such opaque private companies. they have only the power that is given to them, a power based on the fear they cause. i am a strong advocate of healthier, fairer, more transparent and above all more independent ratings, which would become indicators rather than threats. i therefore voted in favour of this report, while stressing that 'the direct incorporation of credit ratings only into the ucits and aif monitoring system encourages market participants to pay excessive attention to the opinions of credit rating agencies rather than to carry out their own credit analysis'.
in writing. one of the consequences of the crisis is that it has indirectly led investors, including ucits and aifs, to rely excessively on credit ratings for their investments in debt instruments, without necessarily carrying out their own assessments of the credit quality of the issuers of these securities. in order to protect investments and credit, persons managing ucits and aifs should be required to avoid relying exclusively and automatically on, or making excessive use of, external credit ratings when assessing the risks inherent in the investments of those ucits and aifs. given the objective of this directive, which is to contribute to reducing the over-reliance of ucits and aifs on external credit ratings when investing, it is very important that credit quality and creditworthiness can be freely verified.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which extends the scope of the rating rules to rating outlooks, changes to the use of credit ratings, the independence of rating agencies, rating disclosure and sovereign debt rating. for many years, the activity of credit rating agencies has been very extensive, with a significant impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the life of public institutions.
in writing. the baltic sea fish stocks are a real food treasure for europeans, and must be protected. this is the role of the multiannual plan for cod stocks. the plan will set the maximum fishing mortality rate, the periods and types of vessels allowed to fish. for example, fishermen will not be able to catch more than 0.25% of fish aged 3 to 6 years in the case of cod stock in area a. it should be noted that this amendment allows small-scale fishing of cod catches during the closing season, particularly in the summer months, without affecting the concentrations before and during spawning which, in the baltic, take place in the deep sea, far from coastal areas. that's why this plan deserves my full attention.
in writing. according to the reports of the international council for the exploration of the sea, the cod stocks in the baltic sea were overfished in the early 2000s. the fishing mortality rate had reduced the stock to a level that it was in danger of collapsing. the western baltic cod stock was in a slightly better situation, but the stock yields were far below what they could be in the long term. for this reason, a multiannual plan has been established for the cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the main objective of the plan was to ensure that the baltic cod stocks could be exploited under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions. to achieve this objective, the plan set out rules for establishing the annual fishing opportunities for this stock in terms of total allowable catches and fishing effort. those rules include a parameter related to fishing mortality, based on scientific recommendations issued annually and used to determine the conservation status of a stock.
in writing. transitional technical measures have been in place since 1 january 2010 and will expire on 31 december 2012. at the very least, this leaves little time for the european parliament and the council to reach political agreement on one of the most complex and important aspects of the cfp. this will require a lot of goodwill on the part of all the actors, which is what parliament hopes to get from the other actors in the debate. this proposal on technical measures should not prejudge decisions on landing obligations to be taken under the cfp basic regulation, and the temporary nature of the legal act should be clearly linked to the envisaged regionalised framework for technical conservation measures, once the new cfp has been adopted. technical measures must be carefully designed for specific cases and areas and cannot be considered as rules applicable to all member states in the same way; a regionalised approach is therefore essential.
in writing. the rules of procedure provide that the president, vice-presidents and quaestors shall be elected by secret ballot. however, where the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats to be filled, the candidates may be elected by acclamation. the question was whether this standard should apply in the same way when there is only one candidate and only one post to be filled. we believe that if only one vice-president is to be replaced and there is only one candidate, he can be elected by acclamation. the president has discretion to decide whether the election shall be by acclamation or by secret ballot. the elected candidate shall take the place of the vice-president whom he replaces in the order of precedence.
in writing. − unemployment in europe is one of the greatest challenges facing our eu countries. over 26 million unemployed, over 5 million young people, in some countries one in two young people is unemployed. it is not only dramatic, it is unsustainable when so many people live in a country with no prospect of a job. if this problem is to be tackled at eu level, then member states must also give the eu parliament and the commission the decision-making powers and the financial means to do so. but none of these two essential aspects has been delegated by the countries to the eu level, and they therefore retain full responsibility for this intolerable situation.
in writing. - the european parliament today urges the european ministers for social affairs and employment to implement the youth learning guarantee plan. the european commission and the eu countries should clarify the financing of the plan. without additional resources and solidarity between member states, the plan will be nothing more than a hollow promise to unemployed young people. if we are not prepared to give financial room to countries where more than half the young people are unemployed to help them get back into work or education, the youth guarantee scheme is a sham. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step forward. almost a quarter of europe's young people are unemployed. this threatens to become a structural problem, because in the long term these young people lose their connection with the labour market. youth unemployment increases the risk of unemployment in the future and of permanent social exclusion. the text adopted is based on the report by my green colleague, mr turunen, which was adopted in 2010. in february the ministers for social affairs and employment will give their opinion on the youth guarantee scheme.
in writing. it is important that the member states' ministers for employment and social affairs agree to implement youth guarantee mechanisms in all member states. the youth guarantee is not a job guarantee but an instrument through which all young eu citizens and legal residents aged 25 or under, and recent graduates aged under 30, are offered a job, continuing training or a good quality apprenticeship within four months of losing their job or leaving mainstream education. it should also be stressed that the youth guarantee must effectively improve the situation of young people who are not in employment, education or training. its guarantee mechanisms should be eligible for specific forms of european funding, in particular in the member states with the highest rates of youth unemployment.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution, which aims to ensure that the structural funds are used optimally in the energy sector during the next programming of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, especially as european funding in this area is expected to increase from eur 5 billion to eur 17 billion.
in writing. security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness are common objectives of european energy policy. it is also important for europe to ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supplies and affordable prices for the user. i welcome the overall approach of linking cohesion policy to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an energy-efficient and low-carbon economy across all sectors. moreover, this can only be achieved by considering the importance of increasing the administrative capacity of member states at regional, local and stakeholder levels, with a view to making full and effective use of the funding allocated to energy projects under cohesion policy, overcoming the obstacles to effective synergies between the structural funds and the other funds and supporting effective policy design and implementation. it should be noted that this measure must complement, not replace, direct subsidies and co-financing of energy projects.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur responsible for this dossier because i believe that cohesion policy needs to be linked to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an energy efficient and low carbon economy in all sectors. in addition, the structural funds and the cohesion fund are crucial elements for achieving these short- and long-term objectives, in line with the spirit of solidarity between member states enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and for combating energy poverty in the most vulnerable households and the least developed regions of the union. i would also add that the planned increases in energy prices will clearly put the citizens of the less developed regions of the union at a disadvantage. it is crucial that this element is taken into account in the planning of cohesion policy and that member states adopt additional measures to mitigate its effects, in particular on protected consumers!
in writing. the introduction of euro bonds has been the subject of a very controversial debate in parliament. the european approach, however, remains the only way to improve the financial situation in various countries. this 'form of solidarity' must of course also be combined with a clear fiscal consolidation, without neglecting future-oriented areas such as research or training.
in writing. the crisis has highlighted the interdependence between euro area member states, but also the need for a strong fiscal union with effective mechanisms to correct unsustainable fiscal trajectories, macroeconomic imbalances, debt levels and upper limits of member states' budgetary balances. moreover, credible commitments to growth-friendly fiscal consolidation are a prerequisite for any lasting solution to the excessive debt and deficit situation in which most euro area member states find themselves. therefore, the joint issuance of bonds requires the establishment of a sustainable budgetary framework beforehand; this means that, through a culture of stability and growth and credible arrangements, the existence of stability bonds could foster stability in the euro area; the issuance of stability bonds could reduce the pressure on sovereign debt and thereby promote growth and employment, stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to the completion of the internal market. at the same time, stability obligations could foster sound and responsible fiscal practices if they are accompanied by requirements for budgetary discipline and better economic governance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. while it is important to look to the medium term to offer new prospects to citizens and markets, the worsening crisis requires immediate action: the ecb has had to launch a programme to provide liquidity to banks (longer-term refinancing operations) and the yield gaps between member states are widening. despite the commitment to reform, some member states pay higher interest rates, at the risk of becoming insolvent, while others enjoy extremely favourable rates, partly due to their excellent performance, but also because of the problems of their partners. it is our duty to take measures to eliminate market distortions and to stabilise the euro area. if this situation continues, the core of the european project, i.e. harmony between citizens, will be affected. the same applies to our credibility with third countries, as the g8 showed at camp david.
in writing. - mr president, the goulard report has been the subject of a great deal of work to find compromises. this is absolutely honourable, but compromise after compromise after compromise makes the message less clear and our questions to the commission less than clear. in the end i voted for the alternative resolution. it is worth examining the introduction of certain forms of joint debt issuance, especially the formula of a debt redemption fund. at the same time, i want to make it clear that this is a matter for further consideration and that a number of necessary conditions must be met. i refer to the relevant passages in my emu report and the commission's blueprint. a debt-relief fund and stability bonds are not for immediate use anyway. i therefore call for an end to the political game that is blocking the two-pack by linking the agreement on it to the immediate introduction of a debt-reduction fund. this is not a political option and is contrary to the treaty. if we want solidarity in the issue of debt, we must first ensure greater budgetary discipline. so let us take steps before we go and approve the two-pack via the community method. we have asked for this in our emu report.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam minister, thank you for replacing mrs ashton. it's not easy, and it's a remarkable start. it's not easy, because the subject is complex. and i'll continue with what my friend salafranca just said. i think that we europeans here today absolutely need to take stock of this diplomatic solution and to analyse what is really happening on the ground. we have supported and continue to support the european position of saying 'everything but military intervention', given the context, the environment. we started with the assumption that with sanctions, time would play out for us, that bashar would give in, that bashar would leave. he's not sure time is on our side. and if you take stock now, of the diplomatic solution, when you see the number of refugees -- we talked about 500,000 refugees, but there are more -- these are the ones that are counted -- when you see the staggering number of deaths, when you see the bloody attack at the university of aleppo, which is a terrorist-type attack, it doesn't matter whether these terrorists belong to the regime or whether they come from factions of al qaeda, when you know that, today, the russians are perfectly entrenched inside syria, that they are defending bashar al-assad's air defenses, when you know that the iranians are there, you know that we have envoys from qatar and saudi arabia, when you see that this is a proxy war, that people are settling in syria, if you ask, is it still playing in our favor, or is it playing against us, if you are playing against the situation, it's absolutely unmanageable. and when i see the proposals of special representative brahimi. in fact, what he is giving is the dardari plan, that is to say a plan that dates back eight months with a provisional government where bashar would be kept a little at a distance, etc. i mean, there's no change in the diplomatic data. on the contrary, on the ground - let's not even talk about the free syrian army - when i see the images, i think: "is this an army of liberation? are these my young syrians whom i knew so well, who were fond of freedom? or is it salafist infiltration again, etc?" so we'd like to take stock and possibly respond or plan b. so, i got two points and i'm running out of time. i'd like to thank you, mrs. georgieva, for the humanitarian plan. you have done your best and it is up to us in the european parliament to ensure that this action can continue and that humanitarian aid is not cut off and punished as it is likely to be. we must be able to maintain humanitarian aid. i'd like to ask you a very simple question, besides the balance sheet. finally, there is an initiative by 55 countries to take syria to the international criminal court. what was europe's role in this? has europe played a role as such, i mean as the european union? i know this is a country initiative. what do you think? but the root of the problem is that we lack a strategic vision and above all a critical analysis of what was and still is the diplomatic solution.
it is becoming increasingly clear how misplaced the euphoria in this parliament was about the so-called arab spring. this naivety - or perhaps i should say ideological blindness - has led to the conclusion that one dictatorship, a secular dictatorship, is being replaced by an even worse dictatorship, an islamic sharia dictatorship. the european union is giving five billion euros to the muslim brotherhood regime in egypt. there is also a danger that the familiar scenario will be repeated in syria. i would like to stress, of course, that the atrocities of the assad regime must be unequivocally condemned. we must also do everything we can to prevent al-qaeda or groups affiliated with al-qaeda from gaining a foothold in syria. the assad regime no longer has a monopoly on atrocities. certain groups within the opposition are also guilty of massacres and of all kinds of human rights violations. it is therefore very important that we in europe take this into account.
i think we are getting off a little too easy if we only deplore in words the systematic and continuing violence against christians in iraq and the mass exodus of christians that has resulted from that violence and if we actually lack the political courage to attach political consequences to what we deplore. the point is that the iraqi government is doing nothing, and therefore nothing, to ensure the safety of the christians. this is not an isolated case in predominantly muslim countries. we can read all this in the literal sense in one of the latest reports of human rights watch. attacks or murders of christians are almost never investigated, let alone convicted. but all this does not seem to prevent us from concluding a cooperation agreement with the political leaders of that country. i think we are really not doing enough to make the european union's human rights policy more than just empty rhetoric. and i regret that.
mr president, it is true that it is regrettable that this conference has not taken place, certainly because of israeli reservations, but it is also, no doubt, because of the timing and the particularly delicate situation with syria today. let us take the case of israel: it is a vital partner. we cannot have the conference without him, especially since he has not signed the non-proliferation treaty, although he very probably has a nuclear arsenal which he has built up since 1949, with the help of the french, the british, the united states, in short, with our help in general, but to a certain extent. and in the current time context, as long as we stay in a safe logic, we can understand israel. it is true that the countries of the arab world have signed the non-proliferation treaty, but neither syria, nor egypt, nor israel, for that matter, have signed the conventions on chemical weapons, biological weapons. and the environment is anything but friendly, with iran facing us, with syria exploding, with al qaeda being in syria, with iraq, with the porousness of the syria-lebanon border. i can understand israel, if it stays in its security logic, saying "i issue reservations". and it is precisely this security logic that we must succeed in overturning. and that is the very meaning of the conference. as long as we remain in the safe logic - that is, protecting ourselves from our neighbours - there is no way out. we're going to go towards the explosion and escalation of violence with all the weapons of mass destruction. it's absolutely assured! but if this conference does take place, you have spoken, madam minister, of a climate of confidence; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what a disaster on a human level! and, anyway, the effectiveness, in relation to terrorism and real risks is zero. so, go that way!
mr president, the npt’s history is a succession of small steps and leaps, some forward and some back. still, the efforts were never given up, even in the direst of circumstances. i want to believe that the postponement of the conference is not a significant setback but another pause in the process. depending on our mindset we can either dream or paint very rosy pictures of a possible middle east free from weapons of mass destruction in a very near future, or we can paint an apocalyptic future. i believe that both approaches are wrong. we must doggedly pursue the path of preserving the npt and preventing any further spread of weapons of mass destruction. we must continue to work for the goal of global zero, continuing to follow the realistic and gradual path advocated by the architects of the global zero initiative, and therefore my group invites and encourages the presidency, the high representative and the eeas to continue to pursue the goal of eliminating weapons of mass destruction.
mr president, i shall try to be very brief. first of all, i think we're having the wrong debate. i am talking about an almost obsessive ideological delusion. i don't think that's the right approach. i think it's important to recognize that there is no human development in poor countries, if there is no economic development. we must stop allowing the belief that we can do humanitarian work and human aid without economic development. and so, what is important about these epas is that they will allow these countries access to global markets and the benefits - yes, mrs sargentini - of economic globalization, as far as they are concerned. secondly, these epas are not designed for the exclusive benefit of the european union, as i hear all the time. that is not true at all, because what is being proposed at commission level is asymmetry. it is also the possibility of protecting sensitive products in the percentage, which will not necessarily be liberalised right away. it's asymmetry in terms of time, too. the third important element is technology transfer, and this is financial aid to help us get through the difficult period of losses caused by tariff reductions. so that's the challenge of apes. i have to tell you that wanting to make this sort of, i would say, ideological issue between us, i don't think that's reasonable. that's a bit like saying you can have human development without economic development. what is obviously true is that one of the weaknesses of the current system is that we are going to liberalise markets and that is why we are giving these countries time to do so in countries that are probably states, but still fragile states. it is true, and it is also true that, as far as the esas are concerned, these countries must have the courage to introduce taxation based on the ability of citizens to pay contributions. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the european union is the only market in which the european union can compete with the other european countries in a much faster time in a regional market and, by integrating into a regional market, have, of course, a much greater competitive capacity in the world market. that's the advantage they're going to have. second answer to what you're saying. there is, however, another aspect: it really seems that, in the end, all the economic powers of the world can trade with africa, but not europe. europe is not! all these countries can trade with africa: india, japan, everybody, but not europe! i find that absolutely angelic and at the same time incoherent. and i'm not sure what the upside is. i think the european partner is a better partner - and i weigh my words carefully - than the chinese partner, for example.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already called in three reports in 2012 for an end to the very strict practices of some airlines regarding the allowance of hand luggage. you understand, of course, and you say so, that there are commercial practices which may differ, and that one airline offers the traveller very little and the other very much and at different prices. but there should be a minimum of agreements and at least transparency for passengers and shops at airports. this information is often missing, with the result that many products have to be handed over before passengers board. you refer to the role of the national supervisor. that is true, but i think the commission should take on a coordinating role and intervene where necessary. it seems to us appropriate to simply establish as a principle that checks on the size of hand baggage should be carried out at check-in. what happens after that, that any products purchased have to be authorized in addition, possibly with certain restrictions, must be clearly communicated. you might also consider some items to be indispensable, such as a coat. the commission could prohibit these overly strict practices by establishing rules or common standards at european level on the size of hand luggage and the exceptions to this. we think that what passengers need most is clarity, so that they can be sure that their purchases will not be taken away. the system must also be reasonable and applied in the same way everywhere. if you bring a small bag as hand luggage and you can buy another bottle of booze at the airport, then you should be able to take that on the plane. it is often perceived as bullying by airlines towards customers, the airport and shops, knowing that, of course, one of the main purposes is to sell products on the plane itself and that this is often the reasoning behind it.
madam president, commissioner, i have also worked to ensure that the public can have access to the right information through effective labelling. it is the role of the european union to ensure that the citizen has everything at hand when making a choice, to make an informed decision. the marking of the origin of products from third countries is part of the same objective. the european parliament, as has been mentioned on a number of occasions, has made a very broad statement in this regard and has accompanied its vote with a proposal for the introduction of harmonised penalties in the event of infringements. firstly, the council has been dragging its feet to the point of blocking the legislative process, and it bears the greatest responsibility for this. now it is the commission, without any consultation with parliament, that wants to withdraw this regulation. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not the only one. it is also a good one, and it is a good one, and it is a good one. once again, companies specialising in the manufacture of local products are not valued. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's support for the first eu partnership agreement with iraq, which will help to complete the country's transition to democracy, rebuild and normalise its relations with the international community. the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) is expected to boost ties in several areas, from trade to investment to development. the agreement stipulates that the ministers will meet annually to reassess progress on peace, democracy and the rule of law. the eu should also help iraq to accede to the rome statute of the international criminal court. and, as i believe is essential in a country which is still at war, the agreement also promotes human rights and fundamental freedoms and aims to combat terrorism and the proliferation of weapons.
in writing. by adopting this resolution we wish to strongly support iraq in its transition to democracy. this partnership and cooperation agreement will enable us to establish a mutually beneficial relationship, particularly in the fields of development, human rights, the fight against terrorism, investment and trade. this agreement could not only help iraq to normalize its relations with the international community but also to enter the wto. finally, it lays a solid foundation for the promotion and respect of human rights in the country.
in writing. i am in favour of this resolution. it marks a historic agreement between the european union and iraq. it comes at a crucial time to accompany iraq's democratic transition, the challenges of reconstruction and development, the restoration of iraq's sovereignty and the normalisation of its relations with the international community. however, the union must be fully committed to the iraqi people and authorities, who will face many challenges, starting with the security and stability of the country. the iraqi security forces are gaining ground capability, but suffer from a lack of internal cohesion, a lack of legal framework and democratic control. moreover, violence remains a threatening reality. the risks of a relapse and resumption of civil war cannot be ruled out, with religious minorities being particularly at risk. while the partnership and cooperation agreement demonstrates the union's determination to play an important role in the transition in iraq, the union's commitments must be reflected in the mobilisation of human and financial resources commensurate with the political ambitions and strategic challenges.
in writing. the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement constitutes the very first contractual relationship ever established between the parties. on trade and investment, the agreement incorporates the basic rules of the wto, although iraq is not yet a member. it contains significant preferential elements concerning public procurement, services and investments. this agreement comes at a crucial time to accompany, in the years ahead, iraq's democratic transition, the challenges of reconstruction and development, the restoration of iraq's sovereignty and the normalisation of its relations with the international community.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and iraq is historic. it comes at a crucial time to accompany, in the years ahead, iraq's democratic transition, the challenges of reconstruction and development, the restoration of iraq's sovereignty and the normalisation of its relations with the international community. the union must be fully committed to the iraqi people and authorities, who will face many challenges, starting with the security and stability of the country. the iraqi security forces are gaining ground capability, but suffer from a lack of internal cohesion and a lack of legal framework and democratic control. moreover, although violence is declining, it is still a threatening reality. the risks of a relapse and resumption of civil war cannot be ruled out, with religious minorities, especially christians, being particularly at risk. the partnership and cooperation agreement is a sign of the union's determination to play a major role in iraq's transition, but the union's commitments must be reflected in the mobilisation of human and financial resources commensurate with the political ambitions and strategic challenges.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's support for the first economic partnership agreement with an african region, which will allow madagascar, mauritius, the seychelles and zimbabwe free, duty-free and quota-free access to the european union market. this interim agreement is the first step towards a final agreement which should improve conditions and foster regional integration in the long term. as regards zimbabwe, i will support a binding human rights rule in the final agreement, in order to respect the values i wish to defend throughout the world. the epa should help the four countries to promote sustainable development and reduce poverty.
in writing. i am concerned about the situation in zimbabwe. it is clear that zimbabwe's "national unity government" is failing to implement the reforms contained in the comprehensive political agreement, which are essential for the country to hold credible, free and fair elections in 2013. to do this, the zimbabwean government must now level the playing field and create an environment that respects human rights. many zimbabweans fear that without the necessary reforms, the elections expected in 2013 will result in widespread violence and human rights violations, as in 2008. zanu-pf has not adopted real and comprehensive institutional reforms to end the partisan political leadership of key state institutions such as the security forces, electoral colleges and public broadcasters. the newly constituted zimbabwe human rights commission could help improve the human rights situation, but its mandate is limited to investigating and reporting on human rights violations committed after the formation of the government of national unity in february 2009.
in writing. the signing of the epa is a necessary step on the path to sustainable growth in the region. i would also stress the importance of continuing negotiations on a comprehensive agreement to encourage greater trade, investment and regional integration. the long chapter on development in the epia deals with the development aid to be provided to partner countries to encourage structural adjustment, diversification and value-added in their economies. the specific objectives of such aid should be clearly defined. one of the important tasks of the eipb structures is to draw up a coherent list of priorities based on article 36 (54) and the eipb annex iv development matrix. it is also important that afoa partner countries contribute to this reform process through a review of their trade and economic policies aimed at creating a better climate for trade and investment. i welcome the intention to seek cooperation and synergy with the member states and other international donors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bowles resolution to stress in particular that state aid must be designed to encourage the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure as such, rather than to provide support for certain enterprises. secondly, i would like to stress in particular the need for competition policy to provide appropriate public support for the green transformation of the economy, in particular in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and for this principle to underpin the new guidelines.
in writing. on november 24, 2012, more than 110 people died in a fire at a textile factory in tazreen, a suburb of dhaka. bangladesh has over 4,500 garment factories, employing over four million workers, the majority of whom are young women; the sector is therefore vital to the national economy because of the jobs it creates and the foreign currency it brings in. in my view, given that bangladeshi garment factories work for many international brands, including european brands (57% of exports are to the european union), it is only right to require european garment brands to critically review their supply chains and cooperate with their suppliers in order to improve health and safety standards at work!
in writing. the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security. i believe that there is an urgent need to prevent other states from acquiring or using nuclear weapons, to reduce world stockpiles and to work towards a world without nuclear weapons. the development of nuclear-weapon-free zones, particularly in tense regions such as the middle east, would advance international peace and security and contribute to the strengthening of the international non-proliferation regime; it is therefore a priority to encourage it. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. as the mep responsible for agriculture and consumer protection, i have fought to ensure that the public has access to the right information through effective labelling. the marking of origin of products imported from third countries is part of the same objective. the european parliament had, moreover, largely expressed its opinion on this matter and accompanied its vote by a proposal to introduce harmonised penalties in the event of infringement. this proposal was to enable the citizen to consume according to an ethic he had chosen. first, the council has been dragging its feet to the point of blocking the legislative process and now the commission, without any consultation with parliament, wants to withdraw the regulation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the consumer and the consumer. and once again, the companies that specialize in making local products are biting their fingers.
in writing. trade between the union and mercosur is close to the total trade between the union and all the other latin american countries. the union is mercosur's largest trading partner and largest investor in the area. for such negotiations to be successful, both sides must enter into negotiations in a spirit of openness and mutual trust. this interregional agreement affects 800 million citizens and is therefore important in terms of employment. i insist that trade agreements should always be accompanied by acceptance conditions linked to social and environmental criteria.
madam president, madam commissioner, violence against women remains one of the great scourges of our time, a particularly serious violation of human rights. it is a pity that we have to dwell on the figures that have been mentioned, but they must be mentioned because they reflect a disastrous human reality. the impact of 16 billion euros proposed by ms parvanova and lunacek also makes us think... in guatemala, on average, two women are murdered every day. worldwide, up to 50% of sexual assaults are committed against girls under the age of 16. around the world, between 100 and 140 million women have been subjected to female genital mutilation, and it is estimated that more than 3 million girls a year, particularly in africa, are at risk of the same practice. again, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you, as mrs gabriel has done, on the organisation of this round table on genital mutilation. i am not saying that we should be in favour of the european parliament. it is also necessary to take action outside, in education, and to remember that democracy and individual freedom have a limit, which is the freedom of others and, in this case, the freedom of women to dispose of their bodies.
the question is "blue cardboard". i have one regret, madam president, and that is that we are giving publicity to idiocy like the one i have just heard. there are enough colleagues who come to talk about specific cases they have read in the sun or other tabloid newspapers! islam cannot be blamed for violence against women. it is always the preserve of, perhaps, certain deviations, but which have no religious or cultural connotation. it's happening all over the world. this is also happening in europe. then stop saying nonsense! i would like to end as i began: i regret that i had to intervene to report on the stupidities i have just heard and to advertise them at the same time.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i am very pleased to be able to present the report here today. i have worked very closely with my colleagues in writing not only the report but also the compromise amendments, and without their support this report would of course never have looked like it does today and would never have been such a good report. on the subject of improving access to finance for smes, i have held extensive consultations with many of the sector's stakeholders, not only entrepreneurs or business organisations themselves, but also many credit institutions and federations of credit institutions. it was and still is very important to me that we as the european parliament write a report which has a broad support among the stakeholders themselves. we all know that europe has some 23 million smes, which generate the lion's share of economic value added and create jobs in europe. the recent months of the financial crisis have made it clear that many smes are finding themselves in difficulty when seeking funding. and they are even more troubled when they go to the banks and look for the necessary loans. because 85% of our smes are still financed by bank loans. but the funding requirements are getting stricter. getting a traditional loan is harder than ever because of the effects of the financial crisis. difficult access to finance is hampering the growth of smes, but also the overall economic growth. smes therefore need concrete solutions and would not benefit from another broad and comprehensive report. that is why i have put forward concrete proposals in this report. we propose that more attention be paid to alternative forms of financing. crowdfunding, venture capital, we must encourage this, for example through fund to fund investments with the help of the european investment fund. we must also look at greater flexibility and transparency in bank lending, including by addressing red tape and limiting the personal guarantee as a condition. the report also focuses not only on training but also on the guidance of entrepreneurs in drawing up a business plan. we also want to improve general financial knowledge by means of an entrepreneurship course in secondary and higher education. after all, the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of young people is crucial to getting us out of the crisis. this report is an own-initiative report drawn up in response to the european commission's action plan. the european commission has also recently put forward a second action plan: the entrepreneurship 2020. i am very pleased that many of the elements contained in our report have already been taken up by the commission. the commission's proposals include strengthening existing financial instruments and simplifying tax structures to give smes access to finance through direct private investment. but it also focuses on the professionalisation and coaching of entrepreneurs and wants to give entrepreneurs a second chance after bankruptcy. the european parliament is largely on the same page. the european regulations must leave sufficient room for the specific nature of all smes. there are, after all, great differences between smes, not only within countries, but also between countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. europe, with this report and the commission's proposal, is showing the way forward, but the member states also have a great deal of responsibility. i therefore call very clearly on the member states in my report to eliminate administrative burdens and to provide fiscal incentives for entrepreneurship and also to activate the savings capital that is currently sitting idle and to convert it into real investment in our real economy and in our smes. that savings must be activated to enable economic growth and jobs to be restored. the report was unanimously approved by the econ committee of parliament. as i said earlier, this report sets out some very important and very concrete solutions and i hope, together with my colleagues, that we can count on massive support for this report here in the plenary tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr philippe, i congratulate you on this excellent report, which was adopted unanimously. smes, everybody likes them. that's great! smes are the ones who innovate. smes are the ones that create jobs. and so we are unanimous in adopting this report which aims to support the financing of smes. but i find that solidarity with smes stops when it starts to cost. and i am glad to have heard the commissioner draw attention to the cosme programme and, more broadly, to the question of the place of smes in the european union's initiatives on research and development. are we prepared, ladies and gentlemen, to reserve - not just set ourselves an indicative target - 20% of the funding of the horizon 2020 programme for smes? in any case, we are, and i hope that we can count on a majority of our colleagues to reserve this money for smes. more generally, if we want to ensure the financing of smes, i am sorry to say, but all the efforts that commissioner barnier is making to put an end to the casino economy will be able to do that. i hear banks telling us every day, "don't go too hard with financial regulation or we won't be funding the real economy". the problem is that they can make money easily and securely, since the state always saves them by going to the casino. they're not interested in lending to smes because it's hard work, it's hard-earned money, whereas the casino is easy money. we must put an end to this and i commit myself again, at least by a majority in this parliament, to continuing to work towards that end. we still have a long way to go.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the many positive comments on this report. i also thank the commission for the courage it has shown today in proposing and supporting the report, and which it will hopefully continue to show in the future in implementing all that we have discussed today. it is indeed very important that we recognise the diversity of smes. i am thinking not only of the type of enterprise but also of the type of financing that the various smes need. it always comes down to the same thing: strengthening own funds to be more resilient in times of crisis, but at the same time to be able to invest more quickly in times of growth. it is also important that we invest in communication with entrepreneurs, to make better known whatever programmes we have at european level to support businesses and entrepreneurship. the commission and the commissioner have already referred to the cosme programme. horizon 2020 also contains many elements that can support smes to be innovative. let us continue to support these elements in the debate on the multiannual budget. it is also important that there is a general regulatory framework that can support smes, not only in difficult times, but also that gives smes the space to invest effectively, to grow and to create jobs. we must ensure that the financial sector, in particular, can return to its normal role. we have indeed stated that banks which have received state aid should make an effective contribution to supporting the real economy. it is very important that we as a parliament can also give that signal. we must also continue to focus on innovation. i already mentioned horizon 2020: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. finally, the financial crisis will only really be over if financial institutions are able to take risks again to support entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship, and at the same time, if companies and entrepreneurs can also take enough risks in their business plans and in their business models to be able to effectively create the jobs of the future. i hope that you will support this report massively tomorrow.
in writing. ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, even though access to traditional bank loans has become very difficult, it is still the most commonly used form of financing for smes. that is why we now need to propose practical solutions to other forms of financing, such as community financing or venture capital, and more flexibility in traditional bank lending. i therefore call for legislation to provide adequate rules to manage the financing and alternatives to bank loans needed by the 23 million smes that make up the economic fabric of the eu. smes need alternative forms of risk capital, but also clearer rules on cooperation with lenders. as regards bank loans, i would ask that banks which receive public or ecb support in the face of the crisis be obliged to offer loans tailored to the needs of smes. in addition, to improve the chances of smes obtaining a loan, clearer rules are needed for cooperation and exchange of information between smes and creditors on the use of collateral, early repayment of credit, possible fines and the calculation of loss of profit. thank you for your attention.
mr president, you know that i have come to this european parliament as the successor of frida brepoels. she was a shadow reporter for this case, and that's why i'm taking the floor. ageing is a huge challenge for europe and i therefore welcome the choice of active and healthy ageing as a pilot project for the european innovation partnership. i am delighted with the communication from the european commission on the strategic implementation plan for this area. i am convinced that innovation can indeed make a crucial contribution to the service of european citizens and at the same time to the europe 2020 programme. the region i represent, flanders, is very active in this respect. although the resolution before us certainly contains positive elements, i think the focus on innovation should have been a little more prominent. the report has become more of a general reflection on active ageing than a targeted response to the implementation proposals.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, are the human tragedies that are taking place at the moment from liège to florence and amiens the result of a lack of industrial policy or rather of a misguided industrial policy? what has industrial policy in europe been up to now but giving tax or regulatory gifts by relaxing social and environmental standards? unconditional gifts to companies that systematically blackmail us into relocating. more fundamentally, industrial policy has been to promote one sector, that of finance. in the hope that it would become the new engine of our economy, we have deregulated in turn. by freeing finance from the real world, the doors of the casino were opened wide for him, a casino where "i win a lot, the state pays a lot"! the time has come for hard-earned profits through innovation and hard work, at the risk of long-term investment! the time for easy money for a few has come. the crazy returns of high finance set the tone. in the real economy, increasingly greedy and less patient shareholders must be offered profits that are actually incompatible with a competitive and sustainable market economy. one after another, large industrial groups have fallen under the sway of financiers, of whom lakshmi mittal is only the most glaring example. today, this is what the men and women of the european steel and automobile industries are paying for. but what can you do? the first priority, in our view, is to close the doors to the financial casino and to return finance to its role as a support for the real economy. at a time when the determination of some seems to be waning, i think we must redouble our efforts. it is also time to invest in putting europe at the forefront of the green transformation of our economy. it is by innovating to become the world champions in resource and energy efficiency that we will best secure the future of our industry. finally, we must get away from the logic of free trade agreements aimed solely at trade at the cost of lowering social and environmental standards. ladies and gentlemen, as we speak, one in four european citizens lives below the poverty line. let this be a reminder of the urgency of a change of course.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the this is the tactic of the steel giant arcelormittal on european soil. last june, after arcelormittal announced that it was closing the hot-melting phase of its site in liège, belgium, i organized a round table in the presence of commissioner andor and a member of your cabinet, mr tajani. at that time, several members of the european parliament were calling urgently for the creation of a european steel cluster and a binding legislative framework for restructuring. the european steel action plan has finally been announced. i am glad of this, but i am sorry that, like the offenbach police, some closures and some restructuring are too late. in my region of liège, in a few days, 1 300 more direct jobs are being sacrificed. let me ask myself why the european executive has not been proactive, despite the signals that have long been sent by the world steel market. this strategic sector has thus been abandoned by a europe that some have described as powerless. in short, today we must tackle the most urgent problem. the commission must ensure that the member states affected by closures are given unwavering support in their fight to preserve industrial tools and hence jobs. all solutions which would make it possible to maintain a steel industry, converted to high added value, must be considered without ideological taboos. research, development and innovation must be given greater support to increase competitiveness. finally, i ask you to work with national governments to activate all the tools at your disposal which would make it possible to intervene in support of thousands of people whose jobs are threatened. i ask you to take action in the steel industry, as in the automobile industry and other sectors dominated by transnational corporations which too often play factories and men against each other, with profit as their only objective.
madam president, commissioner, we are at a crucial juncture. the citizens and workers of europe are worried and are in a state of confusion. austerity is hitting and the job losses are piling up. we need a european response. you have, with industry, major cards. i'll concentrate on the steel industry, given our current situation. short-term actions and strategies for the medium and long term are needed. in the short term, i would ask you to present your plan quickly, before june, to give investors confidence. i ask you to listen to the ministers of industry - and in particular the belgian minister - at the 12th meeting, in order to help safeguard steel tools in a european solidarity. with your competitor, make proposals to allow or force the takeover of the tools by the public authorities or private buyers who want to invest. europe must take the necessary steps to restore the european steel industry to its rightful place. it is a sector which is always innovative and structuring and which must be one of the priorities. furthermore, let us make industrial policy for these changing sectors a regulated, financed, regulated pillar like the cap or the common fisheries policy. finally, i am convinced that the industrial strategy will ultimately require the recovery of budgetary investment capacity and the necessary and fair environmental and social reciprocity. we must not be victims of destructive international dumping.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you who is the european commissioner responsible for the steel industry today? it's not mr tajani, it is mr lakshmi mittal! it is he who, today and for years now, has appropriated, as a businessman, the whole steel industry in europe and is making all the money in the world by pitting the states against each other, by closing down one company here, by putting another under the shell elsewhere to prevent conversion and by putting member states or regions face to face, all of which, as a certain trade unionist in florange said, forgive me for saying, "are shitting their butts"... we'll see who's next! this two-way work is not inevitable! it is your responsibility today to ensure that the european union has a real policy on steel, on industrial matters in general, and above all that it can implement it. you say: "the commission has been working on this since 2009". we are now in early 2013 and we are being told of an action plan for june 2013. admit it, though, there is reason for concern! what i am asking you today is first of all to make it clear very quickly and very quickly to your working party that it is not necessarily environmental issues, as has been said, that are causing the steel industry to be overburdened. on the contrary, green recovery is the only way to revive a real industry: wind, rail, that's how you're going to revive the steel industry. secondly, i ask you to check whether the competition rules have been properly applied on a case-by-case basis. i would like to know, in the case of steel in particular. thirdly, i think we must work to protect our innovative technology through external environmental and social tariffs. it is on these questions that we are awaiting the results of the working party very soon, and we hope that they will be significant.
madam president, commissioner, the steel industry alone would have deserved a debate, given the current situation. since 2008, european production has decreased by 30%. this is a move away from the production of the product. you have spoken of modern and green reindustrialisation, and it is true that the steel industry in europe has made these efforts. but the old industrialists with long-term visions have given way to financiers with an excessive appetite for the short term. that's the whole problem. and, to take the example of lakshmi mittal in liège, but also in other countries, in france or romania, it is a series of broken promises that make it clear that today, perhaps, we should make him understand that in europe there are no castes, there are no untouchables, there are equal citizens under the law, who do not deserve to be treated with irony, disdain, indifference or with total disrespect. commissioner, we are therefore witnessing a relocation, as i said, outside europe. we are counting on you, of course - perhaps with the help of the foreign trade commissioner - to work on amending rules, on tariff cuts for example, on public aid, which may have to be reviewed, but also on the continuity of the activity because mr mittal cannot keep a tool and not use it and prevent others from taking it over.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the french republic, mr swoboda has already said this, but i will say it again: first of all, let me congratulate the liberal in you. i don't want to cause you problems with your socialist friends, but it is a fact that your fight for marriage for all is a progress, a new freedom and the heart of the fight we are fighting with our group. thank you for that. sixty years ago, as you know, jean monnet said: 'we are not uniting states, we are uniting men'. that is still true, mr president. our union only makes sense if it becomes a true federation of peoples and nations, what winston churchill called the united states of europe. of course, for monnet and churchill, this union was only a distant dream, i would even say a mirage. but today it has become a vital duty for the survival of europe, because the world today is no longer a planet of almost two hundred nation states, but has become something different: a conglomerate of great and powerful federations, of empires, of civilizations. take china, for example. it's not a nation, it's a civilization. india is not a nation, it is a continent, with two thousand ethnic groups, twenty-two languages and at least four major religions. the united states is the quintessential multicultural country. so europe has only one future, and that is to make the leap, as you have said, towards a great federation, an empire - but an empire of good. european civilization, contrary to what those who deny the existence of europe say, is not a chimera but a reality, which can be seen and felt from the volga to the atlantic ocean. and let's be honest with our citizens, with our constituents. how do we solve the financial crisis, how do we solve the economic recession, how do we solve climate change? all these issues require joint action, a global approach, which goes beyond the limits of national sovereignty. we must tell the citizens that it is at european level that we must regain this sovereignty, that we must defend our interests, because this is the only level at which this sovereignty can be exercised in the world of tomorrow. i believe, mr president, that of all the member states of the european union, it was france, perhaps along with england, which had already understood centuries ago that a unification of its territory, its economy, its public administration could be beneficial for its inhabitants. so i would say that france has the vocation, and even the duty, to promote this unification at the level of our continent. france knows better than anyone that just as the parishes disappeared in the concert of nations in the nineteenth century, so the nations will no longer be dominant in the twenty-first century of tomorrow. in this context, a battle will take place next friday. but after joseph daul's speech, i wonder what else you'll be discussing. in any case, the present difficulties cannot be denied as regards the future finances of the union. but is it so difficult, mr president, to make your colleagues understand that in times of austerity it is better to pool scarce resources rather than renationalize european policies? let me give you a few examples: defence, diplomacy, research, innovation - tens of billions of dollars can be saved if we work together, in the framework of a strengthened european budget. just as there are millions to be saved if we are to start a dialogue on the question of the seat of our institutions. unfortunately, the opposite is happening at the moment. there is a political blindness that governs europe, let's be honest. worse, it's a real budget scam - let's not be afraid of the words - that's being prepared for next friday. commitments are set at the level desired by the cohesion countries and payments are set at the level desired by the contributing countries. the result of the races is a deficit of 60 billion euros on top of the 16 billion we already have, 76 billion euros in deficit! i'm telling you, this is a huge problem. and it may seem very strange to ask you this, mr president, as a socialist. say no to that! and let's say no together! no to a financial framework that is not serious! and not to a financial framework that is certainly not up to the challenge! that's the message to give next friday. finally, i would like to return to the question of mali. you heard the applause, you made the right decision. it was inconceivable that a jihadist regime would be established in bamako. but let me also talk about another drama, much more serious at the moment, namely syria. two years of horror, tens of thousands of dead, hundreds of thousands of refugees. every day lost without helping the democratic rebellion is a day won by the islamist insurgents. because we know assad will fall, i'm sure of it. but it's the jihadists who are likely to win. i beg you and maybe we can talk about it on friday, instead of this budget that is wrong , we need to give massive humanitarian aid now, we need to establish a no-fly zone in northern syria. if we do not have the courage to do so, let us at least give them the anti-aircraft weapons that will enable them to defend themselves in this situation. mr president, you were welcomed as a liberator in mali. i hope that you, along with your european colleagues, can also become heroes in syria. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
in writing. the smaller aegean islands face several challenges, such as the extra cost of transporting certain agricultural products, the ageing of the population, and the need to promote local production. the specific nature of these islands calls for specific action to enable local farmers to cope with their difficulties. it is therefore essential to adopt measures to guarantee the supply of agricultural products and to preserve and develop local agricultural production. support for greater regional integration would also promote economic development and growth in these regions.
in writing. agricultural activity, in its most modern sense, is inextricably linked to sustainable economic, social and ecological development. the agricultural production of the aegean islands must be designed to prevent any unilateral dependence of local economic activity on the main source of income, namely the provision of tourist services, with a primary focus on safeguarding the valuable local natural and cultural heritage. it should be stressed, however, that the commission's proposal to adopt specific measures for agriculture in the smaller aegean islands seeks to reformulate, not revise, the existing regulation. all the european parliament's proposals will have to take account of the regulatory scope of the scheme, whose financing is part of the first pillar of the cap. addressing the permanent and structural handicaps of the agricultural sector in the aegean islands requires a systematic approach, a thorough needs analysis and a clear strategic direction. the aid scheme for the smaller aegean islands alone cannot and should not be able to address the challenges mentioned above.
in writing. today, in the field of agriculture, it is easy to see that the big industrial producers are in the forefront. however, it is important to continue to focus on local producers and on the specific features of the territory, especially in the outermost regions of the european union. to this end, it is essential to take certain specific measures which will contribute to the development of these productions. these measures will ensure sustainable plant and animal diversification and will contribute to better self-sufficiency of the local population, which will then reduce imports. they will encourage innovation and research leading to sustainable agricultural production. it is also imperative to increase the competitiveness of the different producers in the outermost regions of the union. it is by going in this direction and implementing these specific measures that local producers will be able to survive.
in writing. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the union should step up border controls on imports from third countries, whose production should meet the same veterinary and phytosanitary requirements as those imposed on farmers and herders in the outermost regions in order to avoid unfair competition with local products. bananas, which account for a very large proportion of the final agricultural production of the outermost regions, in particular the canary islands (25% of the region's total production), will have to face the tariff concessions granted by the union to banana exports from latin american countries. the importance of this sector, which, like tomato and sugar, is one of the few export-oriented sectors on the islands, could easily justify, in my view, a revision of the posei financial allocations to compensate for the losses which the concessions could cause to the producers on the islands. however, other productions besides bananas, such as tomatoes, sugar and rum, are also subject to strong external pressures, the consequences of which should be properly assessed by the commission.
in writing. - europe is an sme area par excellence: more than 95% of enterprises in europe are smes, which account for some 70% of all employment. the think small first principle of the 2008 small business act therefore remains a timely and timely one. but just as we are facing the greatest economic difficulties since the great depression, it has become a chore for many smes to get their financing. the present report sets out the problems in this respect and deserves support, as does the european commission's sme action plan to improve access to finance for smes. but we need solutions at all levels. for example, in belgium last month 1,147 companies went bankrupt, mainly smes: an increase of more than 40 percent compared to january 2012. small dramas, as bad as those of arcelormittal or fordgenk. the reason is a cocktail of skyrocketing charges and a lack of market demand due to a drop in consumer confidence. structural reforms in the member states are also badly needed. the sad balance sheet points more than ever to the need for a structural reduction in the burden on labour. enterprise is the engine of our economy and must be reassessed.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are important in the eu, accounting for 98% of european enterprises and creating 67% of jobs. however, even taking into account the specificities of each country, there are still considerable differences in the lending rates and the availability of credit in the 27 member states, which is why i support this report, which calls for improved access to finance for smes. the call for further reductions in administrative burdens and for measures to improve the situation of smes and help them gain access to new markets will make a significant contribution to this. in particular, i support facilitating crossborder activities of smes and identifying obstacles to crossborder investment in order to expand crossborder trade and thus promote growth.
in writing. there are 23 million smes in the eu. this means that 99% of european enterprises are smes and that smes provide 2/3 of jobs in the private sector. it goes without saying that they are one of the essential pillars of the european economy. in these times of crisis, smes are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain financing from banks. this is not without damaging consequences for employment, social integration, innovation, growth and the european economy as a whole. the commission, in launching its action plan, wants to take concrete measures to mobilise savings for growth and jobs, in particular by helping smes to have easier access to finance, by helping them to become better acquainted with financial mechanisms, taking into account their diversity and specificity. the commission's action plan is in line with the europe 2020 strategy and is a key tool to help us emerge from the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are very important to the european union. they are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of growth in the union. smes are a powerful contributor to job creation in the 27 member states, but they are vulnerable. this vulnerability became clear in the aftermath of the crisis. as a result, some lenders have become more cautious in lending to smes. excessive caution and a lack of investment could lead to a tightening of credit. in addition, the new stricter rules applicable in particular to financial institutions and capital requirements put in place by the european union and national authorities have made it more difficult for smes to access finance. these companies are often at the end of a long distribution chain and as such are most affected by late payments and current payment deadlines. this report is a small step but it is a step in the right direction.
it is important that we can debate the european semester here today and that we can report jointly on this as a parliament. i therefore urge that we as a parliament take our responsibility in this matter, do not give false hope to our citizens and broadly support tomorrow the report which was discussed in the econ committee and which was also adopted. there are many member states in the union today which are facing a very difficult economic situation. the european union must therefore do everything possible to support these member states, including encouraging entrepreneurship, but also strengthening the internal market. but the bulk of the effort, of course, comes from the member states themselves. to improve their situation, they need to implement substantial and structural reforms to restore growth and jobs and become competitive. they must also adhere to the very ambitious budgetary objectives which we have all agreed here to eliminate the debt mountain of the past. gradually, this policy is beginning to bear fruit. we have not chosen the easy way, but the way of a lasting and long-term recovery. this is reflected, among other things, in the declining spreads on the sovereign debt of spain, ireland and italy over the last few months. this is also reflected in the renewed growth of exports in spain or in the creation of jobs and the recovery of the irish economy. it is therefore very clear to me: we must continue along the path we have set out here in parliament with the support of the commission and the agreement of the member states. that is also our responsibility in this parliament, even at times when it is particularly difficult for our citizens. that course, as set out in the european semester, in the 2020 objectives, in the six-pack, but also in the two-pack, must be maintained. i know that this course is not the easiest or the most popular course in the short term. but it is indeed important for many countries that these reforms take place, and that requires the sacrifices of many citizens in those countries. but the measures are more necessary than ever to restore confidence today, to be able to grow again tomorrow and to guarantee our children the prosperity they deserve the day after tomorrow. (the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. yesterday we in the econ committee drew up a plan with clear, concrete recommendations to the commission, in which we make it very clear that we believe that the budgetary efforts that many countries are making today, which are not easy at all, should be continued. i do not want to end up in a situation like the past where debts continue to pile up, structural reforms are delayed and we are actually back to where we are today. today we need to implement these structural reforms, both in the field of pensions and in the labour market. that must be continued and that also requires a measure of budgetary discipline, which we have all agreed here in this parliament, together with the commission and the council. let us, for once, keep our word and stick to what we have agreed here in europe. i hope that the member states will be able to do the same in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have come to the conclusion that it is impossible to compromise with a rapporteur who thinks a compromise is simply an extension of her own view. mrs ferreira has failed spectacularly as rapporteur. i warned her recently, as a shadow, that her report enshrines a philosophical divide which is hard to wallpaper over. i was totally ignored. mrs ferreira stubbornly stuck to her own view and generated problems of her own making. as a member from a euro zone country, i worked on an alternative text with other players here. that text was voted on this monday in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). thanks to a coalition of the willing, it was possible to reach a reasonable compromise with a comfortable majority – and i hasten to add that i also voted in favour of the ‘six pack’ and i will vote in favour of the ‘two pack’ if it is submitted here. so, mrs ferreira, who is the eurosceptic here – you or me? mrs ferreira lives in a land of make-believe. if we want to solve major problems in the euro zone, we have to increase competitiveness, as there is no sugar-coated alternative after having lived beyond our means for too long. it is possible – look at ireland – and perhaps the irish minister can tell mrs ferreira how to go about it, leading by example. to achieve competitiveness, we do not need more debt and government over-spending, but well-managed budgets. we do not need rigid labour markets, but flexibility. we do not need protectionism, but free trade and open markets, so there is that roadmap to achieve competitiveness, or there is mrs ferreira’s way of simply spending more, delaying fiscal discipline and having more debt. the two do not go together, and that is why we now have a report, not thanks to a rapporteur but, rather, in spite of her. thank you mr president. i have stayed within my speaking time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am happy to see that mrs ferreira is turning this plenary into a sort of people’s tribunal by asking questions of everybody speaking. we do disagree on this report, and we did all along, so there is no secret about it. i will advise my group to vote in favour of the report as it is. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – i am sure that the council, when convening on thursday and friday, will be in favour of a strict european union budget for the years to come. so there will be no need, and no possibility, for overspending, i have full confidence in that. but i am not sure there will be an agreement because some countries, like the united kingdom and the netherlands will be very strict, and rightly so.
madam president, commissioners, since there are two of you this time on the semester, welcome. i would like to focus on three points, two on content and one on process. the content: the semester is obviously an indispensable instrument. i think that, from being a tool for budgetary convergence at the beginning, it has expanded over the years to include concerns in the fields of social policy and fiscal policy. in both these respects, i think there is still a great deal of progress to be made. on the social policy side, it is true that we were shocked, as were many others, by the publication of the european commission's assessment of labour market reforms, where, in essence, everything that consisted of lowering the level of protection, lowering the level of collective bargaining, in short lowering workers' rights and, in fact, increasing flexibility without increasing safety, or even reducing it, was considered positive, while everything else was considered negative. i think it's an extremely short-term calculation to consider that doing flexibility without security ultimately benefits society. so clearly we need a change of course here. on the tax side, i am a little sorry that your colleague, algirdas šemeta, is not with you, because i think this is the area par excellence where we need much more convergence. i am thinking of course of the corporation tax. the initiative on the financial transaction tax is of course welcome, but it only involves 11 member states. we need a harmonization of corporate taxation in europe. finally, there is the question of the process and the question of democracy. it is very clear that the six-monthly work programme is an indispensable instrument today, but its democratic legitimacy is not enough. we must give this parliament a right of greater scrutiny over what you do in the course of the semester. this means that they have the right to vote in the major elections. but we also need much closer involvement of the national parliaments. we had the interparliamentary meeting a short while ago: member states must be obliged to consult their national parliaments when it comes to the european semester.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, parliament must speak out loudly to influence the half-year process and to bring democracy back into it. this debate, these own-initiative reports, are in that direction. the report of the committee on employment contains many interesting elements, of which i would like to mention a few. firstly, the essential fight against unemployment, especially among young people, notably by supporting vocational training or the implementation of a 'youth guarantee'. secondly, the emphasis on pensions is that the first priority is to increase the effective age, the real retirement age and the employment rate, in order to guarantee a strong and solidary first pillar. thirdly, the necessary easing of the pace of budgetary consolidation, which takes account of specific situations and the need for growth to enable and promote investment, particularly in training, research and innovation, but also in a structuring european industrial policy.
in writing. we know the impact of european market harmonisation on our economy and on our citizens. the single market is the lever of growth and development of the european union. however, i welcome the schwab report which aims to create a coherent framework for european market governance. the role of the single market and consumer protection needs to be strengthened more than ever. and it is precisely to consumers that we must turn, to think of them first as citizens and workers. as a socialist and rapporteur for the modernisation of public procurement, i will continue to call for the respect of social rights within the single market to play a full role in economic and social recovery, which will prevent social dumping and ensure working conditions for all europeans on the basis of the principle of equal treatment of workers. the increased democratic accountability of the european semester through the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, as well as increased dialogue with the social partners, go in the right direction to achieve the market model we want.
i am sorry, but the reality is not quite, or rather not at all, what is being said in this report, that the european parliament is consistently turning a blind eye to the situation in this crisis. that's not true! we are still throwing tax money through doors and windows in this institution, and, ironically, on a large scale. we are, moreover, enjoying, along with tens of thousands of european civil servants, royal allowances, many of which are no longer justifiable. we are wasting our fortunes on megalomaniacal prestige projects, think of the so-called house of european history. we have been funneling masses of money to so-called european political parties and foundations since 2004, now totalling some 70 million euros of taxpayers' money for oversubsidization and navel-gazing. we have completely useless institutions, such as the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee and many others. there is a growing protest among european citizens against the european nomenclature. we have to listen to it.
the majority of europe's population already lives in cities. it will only increase, and we welcome that. the city is the solution when it comes to climate issues, when it comes to space use, when it comes to proximity, but then we have to have the courage to actually solve some of the persistent problems in our cities. one of them has to do with noise and noise pollution. in my city of antwerp, for example, a recent study shows that about one in two of the city's residents is affected by noise. some of them are suffering from persistent noise problems, which are causing a great many health problems, as the commissioner has said. and to deal with it, that's our fucking duty. it is not, and therefore does not, make any sense to cite false reasons, particularly the problems in the automobile sector, including my own backyard. the commission must take other measures to this end, and we must not blame the community for the problem by saying, for example: the asphalt needs to be adjusted and sound barriers built. what we have to do is take our responsibility and that means fully supporting the compromise that has been worked out with difficulty in the envi committee and i hope that this side of parliament will do the same tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just last night i reiterated how important it is for the commission, and for me as the person responsible for industrial policy, to take action to re-industrialize our european union in a modern and competitive way. it is a clear choice we have made, but the industrial policy which i think must lead to have a different industrial network than the industrial network of the 1980s and 1990s. a modern, competitive, high-quality industry that is a key player in the green economy and therefore also in our action to combat climate change. i am sure that a balanced policy, where industrial policy, environmental policy and health policy can work together and all have the same objective, which is to make life better for our fellow citizens. so my proposal - and i want to reassure mr grossetête and mr tatarella - is certainly not a proposal against industry, especially the car industry, which is one of the key sectors in the document on the policy for reindustrialisation in the european union. but we are thinking of a green car, a car that is less polluting, not only in terms of co2 emissions but also in terms of noise pollution. the commission proposal for a regulation seems to me to be a proposal which seeks to balance the different interests: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment. it is not an exaggerated proposal, it is not an extremist proposal, but it is a proposal which seeks to reconcile the interests of a modern and competitive industrial policy and the protection of the environment and therefore of the health of citizens. i believe that we can continue to work in this direction and i am not unwilling to examine the amendments for improvement of the commission's text, both in terms of timing and in terms of electric vehicles. in the debate which will follow parliament's vote, and also in the council, we are prepared to work together to make the text of the new regulation better. i have to say that many of the things we are asking for for certain vehicles are already in place, in the sense that they are in line with the regulations we are proposing. it is true that for some - and that is why we are expecting a longer time - the second phase will be more complicated, but i think that it is a phase long enough to allow industry to deal with this problem. i do not think that this regulation will cause any damage from the employment point of view. in my view, in the long term, it will make the car industry more competitive, particularly in the context of a greener car. that is why i think this proposal for a regulation is balanced, but i confirm my willingness to work from today and in the coming months until it is approved by the council so that we can have a truly balanced text that is in the interests of our citizens. we believe in the market and we believe in industry, but these are always instruments whose ultimate aim - and i keep repeating this - is to make social policy, that is to help our fellow citizens to live better lives both in terms of protecting their health and in terms of their economic conditions. i thank the members who have said that the european commission's proposal is too ambitious, and since i also heard the commission being praised for its ambitious proposals on other matters last night, it seems to me that the feeling between this house and the european commission is still very strong and i thank you for that.
in writing. i think we can all agree that we must reduce traffic noise as much as possible. noise pollution is undoubtedly causing serious health problems. however, to achieve results, a comprehensive approach to traffic noise is needed. we cannot put the entire burden on the car industry, but we must combat traffic noise on several fronts. the quality of the road surface must be improved and the use of sound-efficient car tyres increased. we are all in favour of quieter cars, but we must also take account of the precarious situation in which the car industry finds itself today. the sector is in recession. i am therefore convinced that we must take an ambitious but balanced approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mr barroso has said that an agreement is possible. let us be honest, mr barroso. an agreement is possible, and i think there will be an agreement, but not on the terms you put in your introduction. you talked about a real mid-term review, flexibility between headings and between years, real own resources and no cuts in spending for the future, and you also agree not to create a big debt or deficit in europe because of that difference between commitments and payments. let us be honest. there will be no real mid-term review in the proposal. there will not be any flexibility between headings. the member states do not accept flexibility between headings because they say that this is impossible for them. i am afraid that even the commission’s good proposal will fall on own resources, on the ftt. i hear rumours that germany does not want it and that, in the final conclusion they do not want this ftt in this budget, as envisaged by the commission. the same goes for the additional cuts. where will we see additional cuts? in heading 1a again? the new 25? we have to ask the irish presidency about that. we need to know. what will the final proposal be in order to make a deal in the council? more additional cuts in heading 1a so that in the end we can go back to the 2013 budget? we would be better off continuing with the 2013 budget than discussing what to do with this budget – this mff – for the next year. so i am afraid that, while we totally agree with the commission on the next mff, the reality is that there will be another deal, as there was seven years ago with 42 exceptions, rebates and derogations in the budget. what will happen is that this decision by the european council will not be a formal decision. it will only be a political decision. a discussion will then start in the general affairs council and we will only be consulted here in this parliament to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’, not next week but in three months time. and in three months time the presidency and the member states will try to buy a number of delegations here in the parliament in order to find a majority for that budget. exactly the same thing happened seven years ago. so we have to be very clear. if we say today that our conditions are a mid-term review, flexibility, real own resources, no cuts in spending for the future and no real deficit, as we are creating now with this mff, we have to continue to stand by that in one month, in two months and in three months’ time when we will have to give a formal ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on this mff for the coming years. that is the political power play. for me it is not about figures; it is a power play between the council and parliament. who is in fact the budgetary authority in a democratic system? is it the heads of state or government or is it the european parliament? that is what it is about. in every democracy it is the parliament which is the budgetary authority and not the council, not the head of government or the head of state. it is about debts, so it is not only about figures. it is not just about what we will spend in the next seven years, but it is also about the balance of power inside a democratic european union. is it parliament that has the last say, or is it the council? my proposal, mr barroso, is that in the discussion – and i am also saying this to the irish presidency – we talk not only about the mid-term review. my proposal is to have a sunset clause after two or three years. why not? we are now talking about a budget for seven years. anything could happen. we could have an enormous crisis in europe so that this mff might no longer be applicable, so why not have a sunset clause that, after three years – mr daul said after two years and i agree with that, but i think three years is more realistic – obliges us to give a new consent to go further with this budget for the next three or four years. finally i think that we need to return to annual budgets. what country sets a budget for seven years and sticks to that? that does not exist anywhere. in fact it lowers the power of parliament. the only other example that i know of was the soviet union. there it was for five years. we do it for seven years. we think that we can we make a plan for longer than that. that is the reason why mr farage also agrees with me that we should go back to annual budgets. thank you, mr farage. that is the first sensible and positive reaction that i have had from you in nearly three years. things are getting better and better with you. you are becoming a normal member of the european parliament, which is a good development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a rather special session. yesterday we applauded mr hollande for proposing that we invest in more sustainable development and in young people. the budget, the latest version of mr van rompuy's budget, proposes 15% cuts in the areas of research and youth. we are going to hear from the tunisian president, mr marzouki, shortly, about what is happening in tunisia and we are going to give him our full support for the democratic transition. the budget proposes a reduction of 13% for foreign policy and 11% for the development fund. we discussed yesterday the european semester and the importance of having a social and employment dimension, particularly in our regions. but here we are being offered a 20% reduction for the regions in transition. so i ask you, or at any rate the most sceptical among us, to consider whether it is possible, yes or no, for this parliament to be part of a more promising budgetary strategy and a strategy which enables the council to honour these commitments. these commitments must be paid, we cannot afford the current delay and we cannot afford, as was very well said yesterday, the announced deficit. so, frankly, the more skeptical ones have to join those who today want a real budget.
mr president, i would like to return to the commercial policy aspects. we talked about openness, globalization, growth and so on. all right, but let's be careful. the tragic case of mittal, whose workers are today marching near parliament, calls for at least three reflections. firstly, is europe, which is so timid in defending its borders against immigration, not too naive when it comes to, for example, investors, predators, who only follow a financial logic? we are totally powerless today to deal with these acts. secondly, in our trade policies, should we not be more careful about what our partners do in terms of, for example, state aid and other benefits? we are preparing an agreement with the united states and we are abandoning the close monitoring of these agreements, of these possibilities of distortion of competition. the same is true for russia and china. this makes us particularly vulnerable. thirdly, it is not right that our trade agreements do not take social and environmental constraints into account any more. this breach allows predators to empty europe of its industrial products and then reimport products made under more unregulated conditions, sometimes by their own subsidiaries. this is what mittal is doing, closing sites in europe and then using its foreign subsidiaries to come and resupply them. 'there is something rotten in the kingdom of denmark', as shakespeare would have said, but without falling into protectionism, we must insist on the fair reciprocity of trade agreements by including social and environmental criteria. without this, there will be no industrial policy in europe.
in writing. if the proposals for the next multiannual budget fall too far short of the commission's proposal, the european parliament must take its responsibility and reject them. we have that power and our group will do everything possible to oppose irrational cuts. i am glad to see that the other groups have also matured their minds. the european union will no longer be able to fulfil its tasks effectively if the european budget is cut even more drastically. the european budget is being cut back at the expense of measures needed to overcome the crisis. we need to invest in sustainable and growth-oriented investments and in people (for example, the erasmus programme or the youth guarantee scheme). we have the impression that only national interests dominate the european debate in the council, whereas we have a common interest in fighting the crisis. by investing in research and development, infrastructure, training programmes and other crucial areas such as the fight against youth unemployment, europe can help member states to tackle the crisis. the union is not a toy for national interests, it is an instrument for common european interests.
in writing. in 2007, romania and bulgaria joined the european union. following this enlargement of the eu customs union, trade rights of some members of the world trade organisation have been somewhat reduced, particularly those of the united states. under the wto rules (which date back to gatt), any member of the wto is entitled to negotiate compensation if it deems it necessary. in this case, the united states has done so to obtain the restoration of its trade rights. this is entirely justified and understandable. that is why i voted in favour of this compensation agreement between the european union and the united states. it is important to remember, however, that, on the whole, this enlargement of the union has been favourable to wto members.
in writing. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, it was obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (article xxiv (6) of gatt), to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in the lists of acceding countries in order to agree on mutually satisfactory compensation to offset the increase in consolidated duties and the resulting significant losses. such compensation is necessary if the adoption of the external tariff regime of the union leads to an increase in duties beyond the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto, while 'duly taking into account the reductions in customs duties on the same tariff line made by other constituent entities of the customs union at the time of the establishment of that union', in accordance with the provisions of article xxiv (6).
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague, mrs pervenche berès, on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states are to regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as matters of common interest and to coordinate them within the council. in two separate articles, it provides that the council is to adopt the broad guidelines for economic policies (article 121) and the guidelines for employment (article 148) and that the latter must be compatible with the former. the employment guidelines were adopted on 21 october 2010 and, as provided for in the adoption decision, they should remain stable until 2014 in order to focus on their implementation.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report which should allow european patients to have faster access to generic medicines. we also propose a 60-day time limit for deciding on the price and reimbursement of generic medicines, in order to speed up the availability of these products and save money for patients and social security systems. the competent authorities in the member states would also be required to publish, at least once a year, a list of medicines covered by their public health insurance system together with their price, which i believe is essential information for patients.
in writing. while respecting the exclusive competence of member states to set prices and reimbursement for medicinal products, minimum procedural requirements should also ensure legal certainty and transparency for competent national authorities, foster the production of medicinal products and the entry of generic medicinal products onto the market, and encourage research and development of new medicinal products, with the ultimate aim of facilitating access to affordable treatment for all patients in europe. i would like to stress, as a matter of priority, the need to strengthen the provisions on the transparency of the decision-making process and the decisions taken, which is the subject of growing demand from society, particularly as regards the setting of prices and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. we have therefore suggested a series of additional measures, including the obligation for the competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of the experts who are members of their decision-making bodies. those provisions, as well as greater access to documents and information for the general public, should aim to enhance the transparency, integrity and independence of decisions taken and should, in the long term, strengthen trust in the competent public authorities at national level.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of an ambitious reform aimed at making fishing in the european union more sustainable by ending overfishing practices that are causing the decline of fisheries resources. we voted for the restoration of fish stocks in eu waters, which are now overfished, by 2015 and for a gradual ban on discards from 2014 (the practice of dumping unmarketable fish because they are too small, damaged or simply out of quota, etc., which represents almost a quarter of the total eu catch). the reform, which is due to come into force in 2014, still needs to be discussed between parliament and the council, but the irish presidency has already announced that it hopes to reach an agreement before the end of its term in june. i am glad of this because the vote on this report is a great victory!
in writing. the common fisheries policy has not yet produced the expected results. however, eu waters are equipped with all the conditions necessary for economic, social and environmental benefits to be derived from fishing. it is therefore essential to make changes to this policy in order to develop this sector in a sustainable way that is beneficial for fishermen, citizens and the marine environment. some elements are essential to ensure sound fisheries management, such as the restoration of fish stocks, without which fishing becomes impossible. to do this, fishermen must respect their quotas, adopt a no-refuse policy and thus reduce waste. at the moment we are all concerned with environmental problems, so it seems to me also vital to pay particular attention to small fishing enterprises, which, through their non-industrial techniques, contribute to the respect and balance of nature. adopting this reform means making the fisheries sector sustainable, profitable and environmentally friendly.
in writing. i supported this morning a historic vote by the european parliament in favour of an ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy, with one slogan: stop overfishing! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the measures proposed include: stock restoration, the setting of annual fishing quotas, an end to the intolerable practice of dumping thousands of tonnes of fish for human consumption into european waters, and the use of long-term programmes based on more reliable scientific data. this means more fish, better catches and, consequently, more jobs in the sector. the new policy is expected to come into force in 2014 and by 2020 will increase fish catch by 15 million tonnes and fishermen's income by 25% if properly implemented. in the meantime, the ball is in the court of the member states, which will have to put aside certain national interests and resolutely decide on a modern european fisheries system on a human scale.
in writing. - we have just adopted a historic proposal to prevent overfishing and the unintended discarding of by-catches. almost a quarter of all catches are discarded half-alive or half-dead in order to stay below quotas or because they are not the fish we want. fortunately, this proposal will put an end to that. three decades of mismanagement by european fisheries ministers have left european fisheries largely dependent on subsidies, while 75 to 90% of european fish stocks are overfished and ecosystems are ruined. the annual negotiations between ministers, which set fishing quotas far too high, will be a thing of the past, because fishing must be based on scientific advice. between 1987 and 2011, european fisheries ministers ignored scientific advice in some 70% of their decisions. in order to stop overfishing and restore fish stocks to healthy levels, catch limits should be maintained until 2015. that would allow fish stocks to recover by 2020. however, it is feared that european fisheries ministers will try to water down these reforms. that's the political stake now: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft agreement.
in writing. not only is overfishing a scourge that is destroying the marine environment, it also risks destroying almost 100 000 european jobs and putting entire communities that depend directly on the sea at risk. the over-exploitation of fish stocks is reducing their size and the volume of catches. the 4 million tonnes of fish caught cannot meet the ever-growing demand of europeans, who consume 23.1 kilos of fish per person per year. 90% of mediterranean stocks are overfished. it is not too late to act, but it is time, otherwise seasickness will be permanent!
in writing. − if we want to protect human health and at the same time strengthen the european manufacturing base, we need a sound compromise that makes noise reduction technically possible. a reduction of 3 to 4 db can be achieved within the next six years. these values are a major improvement and ensure that our companies are able to compete effectively and sustainably in global competition.
in writing. the european internal market is an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must be ensured. since road vehicles are the main means of transport and the main source of noise in the transport sector, it is important to take measures to regulate them without delay. the european union already applies type-approval criteria in co2 emissions legislation, in particular regulation (ec) no 715/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 june 2007 on the type-approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. the problem with these vehicles is not just the particulate matter. noise from traffic also causes health damage in many ways. given that the type and quality of the road surface also influence road traffic noise emissions, it is therefore necessary to adopt a comprehensive european approach which takes into account the acoustic performance of the road surface.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a draft report on new noise standards for cars, lorries and buses. the objective of reducing ambient noise by lowering noise limit values and introducing a new and refined test method for measuring noise emissions is important for the protection of the environment and public health. i have, however, opposed amendment no 51 which imposes radical reduction measures (a reduction of 5 decibels), which are unrealistic and not necessary for public health. such a decline could in particular jeopardise belgium's status as a manufacturing centre. i am in favour of a balanced decision which moves towards protecting the environment and public health and incorporates economic factors, without neglecting the job losses which this could cause in some countries if manufacturers were to go bankrupt or move elsewhere.
in writing. - i am disappointed that we did not find a majority today to tighten up the noise standards for motor vehicles. traffic noise is harmful to health, yet since the 1990s noise standards have not been tightened. today a majority of the european parliament once again turned a deaf ear to the car lobby. this is bad news for europeans who are exposed to traffic noise. public health should always take precedence over the interests of the car industry. unfortunately, a majority of conservatives think otherwise. according to the european environment agency, half of the eu population in urban areas is exposed to intolerable traffic noise. noise pollution from traffic kills 50,000 europeans every year. meanwhile, traffic and noise continue to increase. the reduction of car noise has been opposed by the car lobby for years, including during these negotiations. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to noise. it is clear who is defending the general interest in this house and who is defending the short-term interests of a particular sector of industry.
in writing. the main objective of the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise emitted by these vehicles. the aim is to introduce a new test method for measuring noise emissions and new noise limit values for different categories of light, medium and heavy vehicles. i agree with the general approach of this proposal, which is a step forward in counteracting the effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment. i am very sorry, however, that the commission's present proposal does not give sufficient emphasis to the information given to consumers on the noise level of motor vehicles. i would, for example, be in favour of introducing a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, in order to promote low-noise vehicles and to enable consumers to make an informed choice before buying a vehicle.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has had a serious impact on the public finances of many member states. while most of them have had to take drastic measures to reduce their debt levels and budget deficits in order to put public finances on a sustainable path, some countries have been hit so badly that they have had to resort to the union's financial support mechanisms. due to their serious economic situation, those member states have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements required to receive union funds. this is particularly the case with regard to funds allocated under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. the commission is proposing to increase the co-financing rates for member states benefiting from a financial support mechanism. the proposal aims to increase the rate of union co-financing by 20 percentage points and to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned by the same amount. the co-financing rate would thus be increased to 70%.
in writing. i am generally in favour of proposals to increase the co-financing rate for member states receiving financial assistance. the purpose of the fund is to create a solidarity mechanism between member states for the management of migration flows. this task is not shared equally between member states; it is therefore justified to re-evaluate the co-financing requirements in the light of the current economic challenges. good management of migration flows is of great importance for the european union as a whole. the failure of a single member state to manage these flows effectively has an impact not only on that member state but also on many other member states.
in writing. to make fishing sustainable, it is imperative to take account of its resources and thus avoid depleting fish stocks. to achieve this, alongside the reformed common fisheries policy, certain technical measures must be taken. to ensure the sustainable development of this sector, all fishermen must comply with the standards for the equipment used. it must also fish according to the zones and closure periods. last but not least, special attention must be paid to the protection of marine fauna; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fish stocks are not depleted. the best possible result will be achieved by respecting the marine environment and the rules governing fishing. the key to this is to take account of the rules and to implement them.
in writing. not only is overfishing a scourge that is destroying the marine environment, it also threatens to destroy nearly 100 000 european jobs and to put entire communities that depend directly on the sea at risk. the over-exploitation of fish stocks is reducing their size and the volume of catches. the 4 million tonnes of fish caught cannot meet the ever-growing demand of europeans, who consume 23.1 kilos of fish per person per year. 90% of mediterranean stocks are overfished. it is not too late to act, but it is time, otherwise seasickness will be permanent!
in writing. violence against women and girls worldwide, especially in armed conflicts, requires the creation of a genuine 'humanity project'. in the age of globalization, we can no longer afford to leave so many human beings on the margins of our consciousness. globalization is in dire need of universalism. history will judge us by our actions and our silence. no one can say they didn't know. democracy is never bought. we must preserve it. no one is immune to the north or south. it's not about development or economic wealth. it's about values, public liberties and respect for others. we must fight against all forms of impunity, corruption, trivialization and criminality.
in writing. opinion condemns the use of rape as a weapon of war in the congo, the stoning of adulterous women in iran, and the assault on girls who demand their education in afghanistan or pakistan. these extreme acts of violence must be exposed, fought and condemned. but even if all this is very far from europe, the state of equal rights cannot be measured in one of the worst situations. it is enough to know the daily life of the police, the judiciary and the associations concerned to see that this is not the case. the figures are known, but they are far below reality: for example, the 75,000 rapes recorded each year would represent only 10% of the real figure, the majority of female victims being afraid to complain. but the press and public only react in the most extreme cases. it is europe's responsibility to put a stop to this infernal machine of violence and discrimination.
in writing. - i abstained on the final vote on this resolution because once again this parliament does not have the courage or the political will to call man and horse. how can a resolution on women's rights be voted without mentioning the advance of intolerant islam, where girls and women are very often deprived of rights? violence against women is very often ingrained in certain cultures. if you deny that fact, you cannot work on solutions.
as this debate has shown once again, the solution to the kurdish question is in turkish hands. finally, if the reports about the peace process are correct, it seems that ankara has realised that it holds the key to the kurdish solution in abdullah öcalan. but i am also skeptical of the recent positive developments. they are there, but they are coming too scarce and too slow. because every time turkey opened a door to democracy, it closed another door. i am thinking of the banning of the dtp in december 2009, which prevented the famous 'democratic opening' of the erdogan government from being followed up. i am thinking of the kck trial, the rule of law being disrespected, the countless arrests of anyone who criticizes the regime and turning turkey into the world's largest prison for journalists. i therefore urge the commission, the council and the member states not to be blind to this danger but to press for a sustained political dialogue with all the kurdish political forces in the country and not to be drawn into the turkish cart. without full language rights, political autonomy, the abolition of the abnormally high 10% electoral threshold and a full constitutional reform with recognition of kurdish rights, ankara's intentions remain at odds with the european values it claims to uphold.
it is, of course, a good thing that the european union is working towards a solution to the turkish-kurdish conflict, a conflict which, incidentally, is being fought in our own streets, and not just in paris, i fear, because of uncontrolled immigration. but in the end it will be the turks and the kurds themselves who will have to find a solution, who will have to reach an agreement. and then we have to name man and horse. if the turkish government is serious about a peace initiative, then erdogan and his people must first release the many thousands of people who are imprisoned and whose only crime is to have spoken out in favour of the kurdish language and the kurdish identity. that is the litmus test which the commission and the whole of europe must watch and which we must not tolerate. as long as turkey actively denies and fights the kurdish language, kurdish identity and kurdish culture, there can be no peace.
in writing. the european union is facing an unprecedented demographic challenge. it is not without reason that 2012 has been designated as the european year of active ageing. in view of the ageing of the population, appropriate measures must be taken to enable older people to develop in an appropriate environment. a 'society for all ages' must be created, both socially, economically and culturally. to be able to remain active, independent and healthy, one needs, of course, adequate infrastructure and easy access to services, but also an ecological environment, a social and cultural life, etc. a person who lives in an environment where he has everything he needs is a person who remains dynamic, independent and healthy. it is because it takes these different aspects into account that i voted in favour of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing.
in writing. in my view, the demographic transition europe is going through should not be underestimated. its population is ageing rapidly and the number of people aged 65 or over will almost double from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. in addition, while 20% of the population was at least 60 years old in 2010, this percentage will rise to at least 35% by 2050. recent projections, however, predict that immigration could slow down the process of population ageing. they are based on the assumption that several eu member states will ease their immigration restrictions in order to avoid major imbalances in the economic dependency ratio of older people. without migration, the population of the european union will fall from 495 million to 416 million by 2060, while the economic dependency ratio of older people will fall from 25 to 62%. with migration, the population could increase by up to 506 million people, while the economic dependency ratio of the elderly would reach "only" 53%.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which affirms the position to be taken by the eu at the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). we call for an end to the systematic use of secret ballot which undermines efforts to stop the poaching of african elephants and rhinos. this is the only way to guarantee transparency and accountability in the decision-making process. in this resolution we call on the parties to cites to step up the fight against poaching of elephants for their ivory and of rhinoceroses for their horns. i also want to see several shark species included in the list of animals whose trade must be controlled, and that the cites agenda gives greater prominence to the fate of polar bears, which are increasingly endangered because of the melting of the arctic ice.
in writing. cites aims to ensure that international trade in wildlife does not threaten the survival of species in the wild. at present, large areas of land, particularly in africa, which are designated for environmental protection, are beyond the control of the state, its sovereignty and its security. these lands, and their natural resources, are the scene of subversive or criminal activities. if nothing is done to prevent this, the situation will worsen and will have disastrous consequences for the environment and stability of many countries. much of this land is located on international borders, making it easy for criminals to do their work. the third element of this interconnection is security. we are facing a global challenge that we cannot meet alone. there is an urgent need to take action and make the protection of animals and natural resources a priority. we need a deliberate, firm and proactive european policy, followed by decisive action. we must act now, before it's too late.
in writing. this is a good report. the union and the member states now need to speak with one voice to improve the speed and efficiency of their internal decision-making procedures so that they can quickly agree on a union position for the conference of the parties to cites and to build on the strength of 27 parties to the convention within the union to ensure that decisions taken at the 16th conference of the parties are guided by the precautionary principle. the union must also play a leading role in protecting endangered species by actively participating in the cites negotiations and working to eliminate the deficiencies that are aggravating the situation. i regret that there are allegations that member states and citizens of the european union are being used as intermediaries for the transfer of rhino horn to vietnam or other countries where it has a high market value, which stimulates demand and therefore further poaching.
in writing. many member states are currently experiencing economic and budgetary difficulties. in the interests of solidarity, the european institutions should limit their administrative budget. nevertheless, it is vital that these cuts do not in any way hamper the proper functioning of the institutions, because the european budget is the only tool capable of strengthening european competitiveness and reviving growth. if savings can be made in the areas of translation, interpretation, computer technology, travel, respect for established budgets is imperative. let us not forget that this budget is money for europeans (e.g. erasmus, the cohesion funds, etc.). as the members have said, the way in which the european institutions operate must be optimized. i also believe that new own resources are needed, particularly through the introduction of the international financial transaction tax.
in writing. the guidelines report will send a key political message about the european parliament's expectations for the 2014 administrative budgets, with particular attention to the ep's own budget. parliament's priorities for 2014 in this area are budgetary responsibility and self-discipline, the continuation of the limitation or freezing of administrative budgets in compliance with legal obligations, the need to develop investment and strengthen interinstitutional cooperation. the key priorities for the 2014 budget are increasing efficiency through further structural and organisational reforms, and launching innovative thinking to find new areas of potential economies.
in writing. − this report goes hand in hand with the report on promoting the interests of society and a path to sustainable and inclusive recovery. both strengthen corporate social responsibility (csr). this provides for the promotion, enforcement and monitoring of social and environmental standards by enterprises. it not only contributes to the europe 2020 strategy by promoting sustainable growth, safeguarding jobs and revitalising the economy, but also helps to mitigate the social consequences of the financial and economic crisis. in particular, i welcome the call for businesses to retain as much freedom of action as possible despite the mandatory and voluntary approaches and for measures to avoid imposing administrative or financial burdens on smes. i also welcome the promotion of innovative solutions that enable businesses to tackle social and environmental challenges, such as intelligent transport systems and environmentally friendly products. corporate social responsibility has a multifaceted positive impact, because it benefits not only the company by increasing trust and social acceptance, but also its employees and society as a whole by promoting social cohesion.
in writing. corporate social responsibility (csr) is not a new or outdated concept. after a slight modernization, it can greatly help businesses to regain confidence in the economy battered by the crisis. if they incorporate this principle into their sustainability strategy, everyone will benefit. in addition, in order to encourage companies to take on this responsibility, it is imperative that they avoid unnecessary administrative, bureaucratic and financial burdens. in the same vein, it is essential to improve the transparency and effectiveness of csr policies. it is also necessary to make companies as aware as possible of csr and the consequences of non-compliance. however, csr should not be overused as a marketing tool, but should be integrated into the strategies of companies, which must be subject to codes of good conduct in order to enjoy better market identification. voting for this resolution is another step towards economic recovery in europe.
in writing. the growing recognition of corporate 'social responsibility' can be interpreted and read in several ways. on the one hand, the process of globalisation and the emergence of 'global' markets are fostering the emergence of social and environmental standards within companies; on the other hand, an increasingly attentive and informed civil society is 'calling' for more responsible behaviour on the part of companies. the dual impulse driving the advancement of csr in an international governance system, which some have described as post-national, reflects the complementarity of interests between business and society in general. it is therefore appropriate to adopt a broader and farsighted approach in this respect, in order to exploit the full potential of csr. i am not inclined to accept an approach to csr which assumes that business takes over the primary functions of government in promoting, implementing and monitoring social and environmental standards. csr should be guided primarily by the enterprises themselves, according to their own possibilities and requirements, and supported, as appropriate, by the public authorities, in order to balance the interests of enterprises and society.
in writing. although there have been marked improvements, many european companies have not yet fully integrated social and environmental concerns into their activities and strategy, which undermine labour rights and human rights in general. only 15 out of 27 countries promote csr, which is a very interesting fact. however, before inviting all member states to follow the csr path, it would be wise for them to apply, as a first step, the fundamental principles of the international labour organisation, such as the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labour. secondly, the european union must set an example if it is to get its member states to act accordingly: it must stop dealing with countries that blatantly violate labour and human rights, and include clauses in its trade agreements to ensure that these rights are respected and then csr. in this way, in addition to restoring confidence between businesses and the economy, which has been damaged by the crisis, the fundamental rights of workers will be respected.
in writing. while it is wise to guard against the accusation of 'eco-whitening', csr should be seen as an opportunity to be seized and not as a threat to the competitiveness of enterprises. it is also part of europe's own 'social licence' to pursue trade-driven growth. the short-term thinking in brussels, which focuses exclusively on transparency, accountability and accountability of financial markets alone would also reproduce the same mistakes of which those responsible for the collapse of the banking system are accused. the report calls on responsible companies to demonstrate their active commitment to mitigating the social consequences of the crisis and by launching a number of csr actions: job creation for young people, health at work, sustainability of pensions, promotion of the 'minimum living wage', combating labour exploitation practices in business supply chains and promoting new markets for socially and environmentally useful products and services.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by david casa (epp, malta) on the proposal for a directive presented by the commission in july 2012 to amend the vat directive with a view to establishing a rapid reaction mechanism (rrm) against vat fraud. the directive is intended to allow a member state faced with a sudden and massive case of vat fraud to take emergency measures, which it is not allowed to do at present under vat legislation, unless it obtains a derogation after a lengthy process. an accelerated procedure would allow them to be granted a temporary derogation of up to one year within one month. this effective and pragmatic measure will help to combat vat fraud and will strengthen efforts to combat tax evasion and avoidance. we are, however, asking that the proposal be accompanied by a long-term strategy to combat fraud which implies more structural changes in vat regimes and that, as far as possible, the constraints on businesses should not be increased.
in writing. tax evasion is currently a recurring problem within the european union. vat fraud is harmful to companies that comply with their obligations and costs the union and national budgets several billion euros each year. in this time of budgetary constraints and austerity, action is needed. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution to standardize vat legislation and, above all, to establish a rapid reaction mechanism against this fraud. the current approaches to tackling this are time-consuming and cumbersome, which makes it difficult to take the necessary measures in a timely manner. this resolution will enable member states to react more quickly and effectively to vat fraud and also brings real added value to the union.
in writing. vat fraud costs the european union and national budgets several billion euros a year. in some serious cases, huge sums of money are lost in a very short time, because of the speed with which fraud mechanisms are evolving today. between june 2008 and december 2009, for example, an estimated €5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in the context of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. currently, if a member state wishes to combat vat fraud by measures not provided for in eu vat legislation, it must formally request a derogation to do so. the commission then draws up a proposal and submits it to the council, which must adopt it unanimously before the measure can be implemented. this procedure can be time-consuming and cumbersome. it prevents the member state concerned from taking the necessary measures in time to put an end to the fraud. the rapid response mechanism would mean that member states would no longer have to wait for this formal procedure to be completed before applying anti-fraud measures.
in writing. in the context of the vote on this report, i took the opportunity to strongly condemn the position adopted at the last european council in february on the 2013 budget, which is to artificially reduce the level of payment appropriations available in the union budget. i am very sorry about that, because the union budget is first and foremost an investment budget, and 94% of the resources that go into it are reinjected into the member states.
in writing. the euro area is currently experiencing a double-dip recession caused by excessive debt and the financial crisis. in the european union, more than 8 million people have already lost their jobs since 2008, more than 25 million europeans are currently unemployed, of whom almost 11 million have been unemployed for more than a year, around 10 million young people are now unemployed and in the past year alone 2 million people lost their jobs. in addition, labour market regulations in some member states do not leave the necessary flexibility to absorb shocks such as the current crisis. i believe that growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is necessary to get out of the crisis. i therefore welcome the draft provisions of the second set of measures to strengthen the economic dialogue and the overall control of the european semester process by the national parliaments and the european parliament. i also believe that member states should pursue differentiated strategies according to their budgetary situation and that they should keep the growth of public expenditure below the rate of gdp growth in the medium term;
in writing. the socialist group strongly criticised the austerity policies imposed by the european commission on certain member states at risk of or suffering from serious financial instability. we strongly support the conclusions of the annual independent growth review (eaic) that these policies are counterproductive and cannot bring growth back to europe. the eaic proposes instead to slow down the pace of adjustment, within the limits of the revised stability and growth pact (the 'economic governance' package), as this strategy is likely to free up up to €80 billion per year for growth and job creation policies. the commission must change its position on the annual growth review. europe is currently experiencing zero growth and the 0.1% forecast by the commission does not represent real growth. how long will the commission and the eu member states simply wait and watch the devastating effects of these austerity policies? the international monetary fund (imf) recently revised down its growth forecasts, a clear sign that europe is heading for a wall.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report. i would like to point out, however, that in anticipation of the vote i asked the commission to put in place the necessary monitoring mechanisms to ensure that the member states implement the social recommendations made in the context of the european semester and the national reform programme.
in writing. − the two reports on social and economic policy aspects in the annual growth survey are very welcome, as they analyse the impact of the european semester. the latter is an important step in overcoming the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. the consequences are devastating: since 2008, more than 8 million eu citizens have lost their jobs, and 25 million are currently unemployed. the unemployment rate is 10 million, and young people are the main victims. urgent measures are examined in the context of the annual growth report. this balance sheet is important in order to draw conclusions for future action. i particularly welcome the call for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, because it is an efficient way out of the crisis. in particular in times of crisis, not only should there be budgetary discipline with high-quality monitoring and evaluation of public finances, but also, and above all, investments in sustainable growth. i support, among other things, the call to make national labour markets more adaptable, competitive and dynamic. this should be achieved by measures to create jobs, such as the creation of employment incentives and the promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship. if we look closely at how we can deal with the still-ongoing consequences of the economic and financial crisis and draw conclusions for the future, then we can actually use this crisis as an opportunity.
in writing. the social and employment situation has deteriorated sharply over the past 12 months, and the outlook for 2013 is not very encouraging. the unemployment rate has never been higher. the union now has more than 25 000 000 unemployed. this wave of unemployment is particularly affecting young people. it is imperative that member states address this situation and make youth unemployment and the resulting poverty their top priorities. to do this, various measures must be taken. in these times of austerity, fiscal consolidation is inevitable, but given its negative impact on growth and employment, it is necessary to adjust it according to the country concerned.
in writing. the european parliament calls on the european finance ministers to finally make use of the flexibility in the budgetary rules. the eu needs to make room as soon as possible to invest in jobs and to tackle the growing poverty in the eu. that's a good thing. unemployment reached a record high due to the continuing recession. it is time to review the austerity policy. when heads of government decide on their economic policies for 2013 in march, the focus should shift from short-term austerity to room for investment in jobs and reforms to green the economy. unfortunately, the green proposal to no longer base european economic policy on the infamous 3% standard but to take account of income equality and labour force participation was almost rejected by the right-wing groups. this is a missed opportunity to make european economic policy more socially oriented. it could have reversed the trend of declining support for european economic policy. the liberals and christian democrats are demonstrating that they do not have a coherent vision of how to tackle the crisis.
in writing. the social and employment situation has worsened since the last eac in 2012, and the outlook for 2013 is pessimistic. in the last 12 months, the number of unemployed has risen by 2 million to over 25 million in the european union (10.5% of the working age population). fragmentation of the labour market has continued to increase, long-term unemployment has reached worrying levels, average household incomes are declining in many member states and indicators point to higher levels and more acute forms of poverty and social exclusion, with an increase in workers' poverty and social polarisation in many member states. progress towards the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy has been disappointing.
in writing. − this report identifies remaining obstacles to the single market and proposes concrete solutions. i particularly welcome the following three demands: firstly, the call for better legislation, including increased voting in the preparation of legislative proposals affecting the internal market; secondly, better implementation, enforcement and enforcement, including through the introduction of correlation tables reflecting national transposition of eu rules; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the specific recommendations are very sensible. they build on each other, thereby promoting the provision and use of crossborder services and the mobility of labour, and dissolving existing boundary effects, whether of a purely technical or administrative nature. one example among many is the increased use of online tools or internal market information systems in cross-border cooperation between administrations within the third recommendation. finally, i would like to stress the importance of regular monitoring of the implementation and application of the internal market rules in the context of the european semester, which should also include the establishment of a single european transport area.
in writing. in the current economic crisis, the single market needs to be completed as quickly as possible in order to stimulate growth, competitiveness and job creation. without growth, europe loses all credibility, without solidarity, it loses all legitimacy. the european contract for growth is simple: it is a question of activating all possible levers to allow a vigorous and sustainable recovery of growth, a necessary condition to support our social systems. the single market has a key role to play in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as a result of the efforts made by the commission and the member states, the average transposition deficit now stands at 0.9%, thanks to the progress made in recent months; whereas further efforts will have to be made as the deficits lead to mistrust of the union in general and of the single market in particular; it is important to encourage the rapid development of the single market if the commission's estimates that eu gdp could grow by 4% over the next ten years are to be realised.
in writing. we know the impact of european market harmonisation on our economy and on our citizens. the single market is the lever for growth and development in the european union. however, i welcome the schwab report which aims to create a coherent framework for european market governance. the role of the single market and consumer protection needs to be strengthened more than ever. and it is precisely to consumers that we must turn, to design this role first with the input of citizens and workers. as a socialist and rapporteur for the modernisation of public procurement, i will continue to call for the respect of social rights within the single market to play a full role in economic and social recovery, which will prevent social dumping and ensure working conditions for all europeans on the basis of the principle of equal treatment of workers. the increased democratic accountability of the european semester through the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, as well as increased dialogue with the social partners, go in the right direction to achieve the market model we want.
in writing. the recent revision of the european union's human rights strategy should enhance our credibility at the un human rights council. the european union must ensure that it expresses itself through common and united positions if it is to be effective and have weight on the international scene. it is therefore essential to strengthen cooperation and improve organisational arrangements and coordination between member states.
in writing. i supported this resolution to underline the importance of the debates of the 22nd session of the un human rights council. i would like to stress in particular the negative impact of the economic and financial crisis and corruption on the exercise of human rights. the importance of the european union's even more active participation in the united nations human rights mechanisms cannot be overemphasized.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on judicial training-coordinators of courts so that the commission would take into account the 'connected europe' conference of court coordinators on european law held in the hague in september 2012; i would also like the commission to invest more in modern means of communication and the latest software to achieve the overriding objective of offering training to half of the legal professions in the european union by 2020.
in writing. the european investment bank currently plays a key role in shaping the future of the european union and in achieving its objectives of growth and jobs. the competitiveness of our trading partners is constantly growing, and the union must be able to cope with this. to this end, measures must be taken at different levels. from a financial point of view, it is imperative that the eib maintains its triple a status and to do so it must seek to increase its capital. the eib also has to make the right choices in terms of internal and external priorities. cultural activities, for example, deserve more attention. the latter have been severely penalized following the financial crisis. finally, it is essential that the european investment bank should always be more transparent. by voting for this resolution, which includes these various measures, we are putting all the chances in our hands to achieve these objectives.
in writing. − in its annual report on the european investment bank (eib), the european parliament calls for financing of green investments. the eib's lending to projects that are harmful to the environment, climate or developing countries must be stopped quickly. the eib's mission is to contribute to the eu's climate and development objectives. but the practice is quite different. it's time we looked at that a lot more critically. in 2011, the eib froze loans to the trading company glencore, whose subsidiary was involved in corruption, tax evasion and serious pollution around a copper mine in zambia. we must learn from this scandal. never again should eib money be used for such abuses. the eib's transparency and accountability must be improved. the greens unfortunately did not receive support from other groups for a proposal to phase out polluting investments as quickly as possible. between 2007 and 2011, as much as 30% of eib energy budget lending went to fossil energy. unfortunately, too many politicians still believe that we can delay the choice of sustainability forever. this will come back to them like a boomerang.
in writing. the eib's role is becoming essential for the future of the european union, in order to contribute to the achievement of its objectives, such as growth and employment. the union has already taken drastic measures to improve discipline and supervision of national debts and budgets. the rapporteur also believes that the european project, and above all the european citizens, need measures to promote strong and sustained economic growth. europe must take active steps to improve inclusive growth and its prospects, strengthen its capacity for innovation and its knowledge-based industry, increase investment in infrastructure, develop networks and strengthen social and environmental policies. europe needs high-quality job opportunities, higher employment rates and higher productivity. if we do not act, europe will face increased competition from our trading partners. to achieve these objectives, parliament recommended that the eib and the commission cooperate more closely and more closely, also examining the possibility of the union becoming a shareholder of the eib.
mr president, madam commissioner, the economic crisis we are facing is the most serious since the 1930s. although men were first affected by the crisis, women are now the hardest hit. indeed, they are the majority in service-related jobs, the sectors where the cuts have been most drastic. they are also the ones who accept part-time jobs and precarious jobs and are often forced to do so. all of this will have increasingly important implications for the future of women. in the long term, the effects of the crisis will be even more marked. women's pensions, which are already lower than men's, will be further reduced because of the persistent gender pay gap. it is essential that europe includes in its recovery plans the central focus of all policies on gender equality. it must also promote female entrepreneurship, as mrs záborská has just said. women, who tend to avoid risk, are helping to bring about a greater focus on long-term prospects, which the economy badly needs today.
mr president, today tunisian women are marching in the streets shouting: 'women are men like any other man!' that's a very interesting slogan. what does that mean? this means that what they want is not complementarity - mrs reding has spoken of this - but equality. it's about equality and that's what's at the heart of the problem right now. it's not even a question of sharia, it's a question of how in the north african countries today, will women be regarded? as a complement or as an equal? that is the question that is really central. we must continue to say that there is a universality of human rights, that there are no human rights for muslims and human rights for europeans, that it is universal and that equality is paramount. i would like to see more for more in the neighbourhood policy really focusing on this aspect. it's very specific and i think that the women, who fought so hard in those countries to get their freedom and are now paying a heavy price for it, deserve our attention.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i think this is part of a package of the connecting europe facility. in any case, we in the itre committee feel that it would have been better to have treated this package as a package. we have a six-pack on economic governance, we have a six-pack on horizon 2020, the union's research and innovation policy. i think it would only make sense for us to negotiate the entire connecting europe facility package between the two co-legislators as one package. that is not what the council and the commission want to do and i think that is a form of denial of democracy. let me remind you of the absolute priorities of the committee i represent here. first, 75% of the energy investments for the connecting europe facility must be dedicated to the electricity grid. germany has embarked on its energiewende. if we are really to make the energy europe primarily a renewable energy europe, this requires a complete transformation of our electricity grid infrastructure. secondly, it is important that every euro of public money spent today should be able to mobilise as much private money as possible. the technique you have chosen is the grant technique: you want to give money and europe to finance all the projects. instead, use the project bonds to fund it.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur. it is not a legislative work, but it is a very important report. the commissioner should know that this has already been the subject of substantial negotiations in this parliament and that the rapporteur has been very constructive, but also has shown an angelic patience in order to achieve results. important because, of course, we don't know what's going to be in 2050. we have no glass globe, but - as the previous debate has shown - we must make decisions now, because they will have an impact over the next 10, 20, 30 and 40 years. and i always say: "i'm already planning to walk around here in 2050 to see what we've actually accomplished". what is incredibly important for my group is not to hide behind everything we have no say in, but to do what we have to do to give a good start now, namely: the commission shall adopt the following measures: the vote will take place tomorrow, and i call on the epp in particular and the rapporteur once again to support this. first, let's look at the 2020 goals: where do we get them and where don't we get them? we know that we have to make some progress on energy efficiency. - what ? and then, in the run-up to 2030, again setting clear targets on renewable energy, for example 45 percent renewable energy but also, of course, on greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency. i have heard the commissioner express support for this and i think that is extremely important. so i would again call on the members on the right to support it tomorrow anyway, because that would send a clear signal to the commission. commissioner, the roadmap is an interesting document and i hope that our advice will also interest you, but you are not the head of the energy studies service or the chairman of a think tank, you are a policy maker. now it's time to choose from the many scenarios. and i would like to invite you to that. you also referred to it, the no regret options. i think we have to decide now, that on the basis of those no regret options, we make sure that we are completely energy independent by 2050, because then we are completely dependent on renewable energy. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. madam president, a very interesting question indeed, one which particularly concerns me, because the industry also particularly concerns me. and we need to balance those two things. it is a different debate, but i am convinced that the current ets system is not working and that we need to move to a system where a kind of carbon footprinting for a product actually works and ensures that the products we buy, whether they are made in the european union or outside, have the same quality requirements. but, mr president, that does mean that we must reach a unanimous decision. and you know how hard it's been to get the ets system through. i think it's very important that if we're going to go to an alternative, we need to know that there is an alternative. we cannot simply abolish one and replace it with nothing, because then we are not making any progress. but i think we're going to have some interesting debates about that.
i would like to make two points, mr president, commissioner, on this question and on all the initiatives you have put forward. the first is about the stress test. you said yourself: "some found them too light, others too heavy". well, the proof of the pudding is by eating it. what did the stress tests tell us? in my country, it's something very special. in particular, all the reactors passed the stress test and some time later, during a routine inspection, major defects were found at tihange ii and doel iii, namely cracks in the nuclear reactors. and that says something about the value of stress tests. so i would still like to invite you to take your legislative initiatives a step further. secondly, the liability. i think that's very important. if you really go through with this and really want to insure everything, then it turns out that nuclear energy is not insurable.
i declare the 2013-2014 session of the european parliament open.
the agenda calls for debate on the commission statement on problems in the food supply chain in the context of the recent horse meat affair.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. champion mestdagh supermarket chain, on behalf of brands, ordered the destruction of all food lots containing horse meat, whether frozen products like igloo or canned products like buitoni dumplings. it is shocking that brands would rather throw healthy food away than donate it to charities or sell it at a discount to families struggling to make ends meet. so supermarkets are feeding rats instead of people - shockingly so! the lie of labels saying 'beef' instead of 'horse' must be severely punished so that the guilty know what it costs to mock 500 million europeans. but i maintain that as long as these products are healthy, they should be redistributed to the poorest or sold at a discount. lying about the contents of food is as criminal as throwing it away. if those responsible want to redeem themselves, it's not too late, but it's time.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the online settlement of consumer disputes (consumer online dispute resolution regulation) (com ((2011) 0794 - c7-0453/2011 - 2011/0374 ((cod)) (a7-0236/2012), and- the report by louis grech, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2009/22/ec (consumer online dispute resolution directive) (com ((2011) 0793 - c7-0454/2011 - 2011/0373d (a7-0802/2012).))
mrs gebhardt will speak on behalf of mr grech, who has been elected to the maltese parliament. we commend him for that.
in writing. alternative out-of-court dispute resolution methods - such as mediation, ombudsman, arbitration - to provide faster and cheaper dispute resolution for online and offline domestic and cross-border purchases. such instruments are already available to consumers today, but they are still not being used enough. for example, in 2010, only 5% of consumers and only 9% of companies indicated that they had ever used adr. the lack of effective dispute settlement methods is therefore a serious handicap. it is estimated that consumers incur a loss equivalent to 0.4% of european gdp each year. both top-down and bottom-up initiatives are therefore desirable. that is why i support the european legislation before us which resolves disputes within 90 days. this will strengthen the exercise of the rights of the european citizen. in particular, i am delighted that the interactive web portal to be set up with standardised complaint forms for both consumers and businesses will be free of charge and accessible in all the official languages of the eu. this creates a single point of access for out-of-court settlement which will only benefit the consumer.
the court is in session. mrs. reding is on her way. the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the subject of 'intensifying the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crimes'.
president. - the fight against racism is of course a legitimate objective. but i fear that this legitimate aim is being used far too often to muzzle equally legitimate and very justified concerns of our citizens, to suspend free speech and to silence very decent people. i am afraid that there are many negationists in this parliament. these are politicians who are blatantly denying or ignoring the very unreal problems of harassment, of crime, of violence, of islamization, that go along with uncontrolled immigration. or there are those who place perfectly necessary and acceptable political measures in a racist criminal atmosphere. was it not commissioner reding who compared the roma policy of french president sarkozy to the horrors of the second world war a few years ago? what a shameful stupidity that was! a real fight against racism begins with the fight against illegal immigration and with the protection of the laws, norms, freedoms and identities of the european peoples. that is something that is forgotten far too often in this hemisphere.
i am not saying that racism should be condemned, but there is no other term which is so widely and systematically abused as the term racism. anyone who questions the open borders and the resulting mass immigration, anyone who criticises the failed immigration and integration policies of the past 30 years, is systematically branded as a racist. it's the tried and true way to make any debate on the immigration problem impossible. in belgium, the left-wing government under verhofstadt even succeeded in de facto banning the then largest party in flanders, the flemish bloc, in 2004. in this way the left-wing church also wants to restrict free speech. and this attitude has proved catastrophic, especially now that the ruins of multicultural society are clearly visible, with ghettos where unemployment and crime are at their peak. the eu is not a solution to the problems, but rather a part of the problem. therefore, asylum and immigration policy must be returned to the competence of the member states, including the ability to control their own borders. the problems caused by mass immigration and islamization must be discussed and solved in the light of the identity and interests of the peoples of europe.
madam president, a few minutes ago there was an intervention on the situation in hungary clearly indicating that, with the fourth amendment – which has been approved by the hungarian parliament – there is a breach of fundamental european values. my request to you, mr president, is that we put that point of hungary on the agenda of the european parliament when we have our discussion tomorrow with the commission and with the irish presidency. i am saying that because article 7 of the treaty is very clear: one third of the member states can put a problem on the agenda. the commission can do it; maybe mrs reding can do it in one hour because you have a college now; maybe you can take a decision now to go for an article 7, paragraph 1 procedure against hungary – or the european parliament can do it. but what must not happen is that this plenary session in strasbourg ends without a decision of this parliament on the case of hungary and without any action by the commission or the council. (loud applause)in fact what is happening is that mr orbán is laughing and joking with us by doing this. i should ask my good friend mr daul, who has already made a number of statements – i think one month ago, against mr berlusconi – and who now also has the courage to ensure that his ppe group stops supporting mr orbán in this breach of european values and principles. (loud applause)so my request is that you put this on the agenda for tomorrow morning.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the need for sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to policy makers, industry and environmentalists. however, european energy policy is making slow progress. the european union has allocated little resources to it and it has only recently been given some importance by the treaty of lisbon. although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation , we are still faced today with insufficient integration of the internal energy market, significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, insufficient access to diversified energy sources, which contribute to energy security, and the absence of tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability. this overall picture and a considerable degree of interdependence between member states call for action at european level. there is a need for more rapid, decisive and concerted action and it is imperative to give europe a greater role in coordinating and integrating national efforts.
in writing. i supported this report in order to get the commission to correct its approach to the handling of the complainants' infringement complaint concerning vienna airport and to address the shortcomings identified by the ombudsman in his decision of 2 december 2009. the ombudsman considered that it was easy for the commission to intervene with austrian motorways to address the issues raised in its closure decision.
in writing. i voted for this report so that the current incoherent situation can be ended, with some member states only accounting for the drainage and rewatering of wetlands. it is also important to make it compulsory to account for all carbon and greenhouse gas sinks for each type of activity. finally, it is important to require member states to notify the commission, for the purpose of examination and approval, of their choice to use country-specific half-life values for timber products exported outside the union.
in writing. needless to say, the protection and respect of the environment is one of the european union's top priorities at the moment. up-to-date, reliable and accurate data, particularly on greenhouse gas emissions, are therefore essential. this data will then help to determine whether eu member states are on track to meet their targets. these will also help to develop new policies in this area and to gain even more credibility vis-à-vis developing countries. while this regulation is largely based on the monitoring mechanism established by decision no 280/2004/ec, it does introduce certain changes and clarifications, for example to improve the transparency, timeliness and comparability of data or to facilitate the development of new instruments to combat climate change.
in writing. i supported this report for the improvements it proposes to streamline and improve the union's rules on reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and to enhance the union's credibility vis-à-vis developing countries by providing transparent and comprehensive information on the different types of support and the scale of such support.
in writing. in an age when the internet is at the forefront of many areas, this proposal seems quite legitimate to me. it aims to establish an online platform to help consumers and traders settle contractual disputes arising from the online sale of goods or services from one member state to another. by consulting this free website, both parties to the dispute will be informed of the remedies available to them. it would have been interesting to extend the scope of this platform to national disputes, but it is a good start. this website will save money, save time and strengthen the appeals process. voting for this proposal for online consumer dispute resolution is a first step towards a very promising tool.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to set up an interactive website offering consumers and traders a one-stop shop for the out-of-court settlement of contractual disputes arising from the cross-border online sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the appeals available to consumers should be strengthened by allowing their complaints to be submitted to an adr body (arbitration authority, conciliator, mediator or appeal board) for an out-of-court settlement. i particularly support the provision of voluntary adr systems in every sector of the economy to facilitate consumer access to and implementation of redress. i also welcome the fact that the proposal for a regulation applies to complaints from consumers, but also from traders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report so that consumers who buy cross-border can be sure that they can get redress for problems they encounter with the products or services they have bought. the european commission has also published a report on the implementation of the european union's new rules on the protection of the environment. an out-of-court dispute settlement system must therefore give citizens the confidence to take full advantage of the benefits of electronic commerce. the aim is therefore to develop a solid framework for the development of consumer oer bodies. first, the lack of awareness of oer procedures among many consumers and professionals needs to be addressed. the harmonisation of quality criteria will subsequently enable consumers to have recourse to a quality, impartial, independent, fair and transparent odr procedure.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague's text. the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the eu and its member states (the cotonou agreement) provides a legal basis for eu cooperation with these states. the commission should clarify its strategy on promoting the private sector and the use of new provisions such as financing through a combination of grants and loans. the text calls on the european union to define a set of environmental and social standards to be respected in the proposals for public contracts financed by the european development fund (edf) in the acp countries. i also expect the commission to do everything in its power to ensure that the edf is budgeted smoothly from 1 january 2021. the commission must also keep the ep regularly informed of the progress of preparations. this budgetary integration should improve aid predictability but should not be used as a pretext for reducing development aid expenditure. the provisions on democratic control must guarantee the involvement of national parliaments in the monitoring of the expenditure of budget appropriations.
in writing. - i voted against this report partly because i regret that the agreement between the member states envisages a reduction in the european development fund. well, personally, i consider this a first, small step in the right direction. the hundreds of billions of euros pumped into africa over the past decades have done nothing to advance this continent. the opposite is true: they have reinforced and perpetuated dependency and systematic corruption. africa, rich in natural resources, can and must stand on its own two feet - and it is time for a new strategy that does. that is why we must completely abandon the foolish system of direct budget support - which has also been consistently criticised by the european court of auditors.
in writing. the presence and control of radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption is a public health issue serious enough for the european parliament to consider! i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which calls for the protection of human health and the environment from the harmful effects of radiation by the development of minimum standards and monitoring of radioactive contamination to ensure that more ambitious limits are applied throughout the eu for the concentrations of radioactive substances in drinking water. i also called for better information to be given to the public, who are often unaware of the risks of nuclear activities in their neighbourhood, for the polluter-pays principle to be applied in all member states, and for stricter contamination standards to take account of natural and man-made radioactivity and the affected populations in order to take better account of the critical populations, namely children, which will allow for a better assessment of the doses received by the population, contrary to the standards laid down by the european commission.
in writing. access to safe drinking water for all eu citizens is one of the main objectives of our policies on human health and environmental protection. at present, the quality of water intended for human consumption in europe is governed by the drinking water directive. unfortunately, some of its requirements are still being ignored. voting in favour of this new directive will help to overcome some of the difficulties we are facing today. it will make it possible to take account of all the adverse effects of the various pollutants. in addition, natural and man-made sources of radioactivity will be treated quite separately and the polluter pays principle will apply. the combination of new technologies and new measures will mean safe drinking water for all european citizens and increased protection of human health.
in writing. even if the proposal refers to the non-application of the drinking water directive, i agree with the author of the parliament's text that the approach taken by the commission is not satisfactory and needs to be changed in two key respects. access to safe drinking water for european citizens is a central concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection. the quality of water intended for human consumption is currently covered by council directive 98/83/ec, including the regulation on pollutants such as toxic chemicals and radionuclides. however, the requirements for tritium control and total indicative dose have not yet been applied, while member states were required to comply with the drinking water directive by the end of 2003. with this proposal the commission intends to incorporate the corresponding requirements not in the said directive but in new specific legislation on the basis of the euratom treaty.
in writing. - the global financial crisis and its consequences have naturally led the countries of europe, particularly those in the eurozone, to re-examine their cooperation in the tension between rigour and solidarity. these debates and decisions have largely taken place in the council, in the power struggle between 'receiving and donor countries'; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without europe, many countries would be facing economic and therefore social ruin. this situation is not only due to external factors, but also to the failure of the member states to make themselves more 'crisis-resistant'. acceptance of these rules is the necessary basis for solidarity.
in writing. i voted against the two-pack. after negotiations with the council, parliament has acquired some elements such as respect for national social dialogue processes, the democratic role of parliament, consistency with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy or a commission statement of intent which only engages those who believe in it on the mutualisation of sovereign debts and the fight against tax fraud. but there is no concrete evidence of real support for growth or solidarity between member states and between european citizens. in these circumstances, let us be consistent! our desire for a radical change of course requires a clear expression in parliament and therefore a negative vote. let us stop saying that a liberal europe, which advocates blind austerity and kills growth in the egg, is not suitable for us, while leaving the european right wing in parliament free to do its job.
in writing. − it seems logical that member states should be subject to increased scrutiny when their lack of financial stability threatens the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. the introduction of the euro, and especially the admission to the euro zone of countries which have not met the strict conditions, has led to a de facto transfer union, a belgium in general, where the net payers must pay for the mismanagement of the net recipient. we are now left with the baked pears and nothing but symptom management. the european mandarins who have imposed this on us have really done europe no service at all with their fanatical nonsense in defiance of any economic reality.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation lays down additional requirements for the surveillance of national budgetary policies, proposes a common budgetary timetable and calls for closer surveillance of budgetary decisions of member states subject to an excessive deficit procedure. i agree with the proposal. i believe, however, that the implementation of budgetary surveillance should always be conditional on the fundamental objectives of the union, and in particular on the provisions of article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union aimed at promoting a high level of employment and ensuring adequate social protection.
in writing. - i am satisfied that the two-pack has been approved and is coming into effect soon. i also took note of the commission's statement. the epp has been campaigning for greater eu budgetary integration and monitoring to support member states in drawing up sustainable budgets, the basis for growth and jobs. the two-pack has profound implications for the national budgetary procedure in the euro area. the commission is now monitoring the budget not only ex post, but from the drafting stage onwards and can make preventive adjustments. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the epp has incorporated the essentials of the budgetary treaty into the two-pack. independent bodies that monitor compliance with the numerical mto budget rules, correction mechanism, economic partnership programme and coordination of sovereign debt issuance plans. a group of experts shall report by march 2014 on the possibilities of partial replacement of national debt issuance by joint issuance in the form of a debt servicing fund or eurobonds. the epp has always been open to debate on this subject if it is taken seriously. the group of experts is taking care of it. it is politically wise that other groups, too, should now adopt a more gradual and realistic approach, with a loss of time.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation establishes a legal framework governing the possibility for various investment funds to obtain the designation 'european venture capital funds' and the corresponding passport. the aim is to create a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the proposal for a regulation lays down the criteria, in terms of available assets, which a given fund must meet in order to obtain the abovementioned designation and passport. it also introduces requirements for managers of such funds and restrictions on the investments that can be made with the assets of a fund. it should be noted that there are already two directives on investment funds: directive 2011/61/eu of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council. they contain rules on investment funds, their management and the status of investors in such funds. the purpose of this opinion is to ensure consistency between the proposal for a regulation and those legal instruments currently in force.
in writing. the social economy sector covers a very wide field and is constantly expanding. because of their roots and cultural heritage, its companies are at the heart of important social issues, such as social protection and equal opportunities. the training of the low-skilled, the integration of young people into working life, the transition from a precarious situation to the status of worker or entrepreneur appear to be common aspirations encountered by this sector. the specificities of social enterprises, whose main objective is to have a positive social impact, must therefore be taken into account. in addition, these are often smes, largely financed by grants from foundations, private individuals or the public sector. i share the objective of creating a legislative framework adapted to the needs of social enterprises, investors wishing to finance them and specialised investment funds acting as intermediaries between the two. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. more and more investors are looking for social objectives rather than just financial returns. a social investment market is therefore emerging in the union, which is composed in particular of funds targeting socially oriented enterprises. it is necessary to establish a common framework for the use of the designation 'european social entrepreneurship funds' (esefs), in particular as regards the composition of the portfolio of funds operating under that designation, their investment targets, the investment tools they may implement and the categories of investors that may invest in such funds, by laying down uniform rules at union level. in the absence of such a common framework, there is a risk that member states would take divergent measures at national level, which would have a direct negative impact on the internal market and would hamper its smooth functioning, as funds wishing to carry out cross-border activity would be subject to different rules in different member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by elisabeth morin-chartier on the impact of the crisis on gender equality and women's rights, which was adopted by 495 votes to 96, with 69 abstentions. parliament condemned the budget cuts and austerity measures which had further weakened the position of women. a real silent crisis for women! the resolution therefore insists that the crisis should not jeopardise the results achieved by policies to promote equality between men and women and should not serve as a pretext for reducing efforts in this area. we have asked the commission to integrate the gender dimension into all policies and in particular those concerning the impact of austerity measures. we have stressed that women have played a key role in the resistance to the crisis and that they must therefore be fully involved in the management of recovery plans. we also called for a directive to close the pay gap and for more investment in continuing training, teleworking, women's entrepreneurship and childcare.
in writing. since 2008, we have seen a succession of crises here in the eu. women are not the first victims of this. however, male labour will return more quickly, while austerity measures in the public services will have a lasting effect on women. in some member states, the reduction in public sector staff has reached 25%. in 2011, the number of women working part-time was so high that the term 'part-time unemployment' was used instead of 'employment'. it is vital that the perspective of equality between men and women is taken into account in the responses of the authorities to the crisis. training policies must be reviewed in the light of the specific role of women. it is also necessary to work continuously on the development of childcare facilities. the maximum number of measures must be implemented to promote the reintegration of women into working life.
in writing. it is important to emphasise how budgetary restrictions have had a negative impact on work-life balance, and that this problem affects single parents more specifically, most often women. better provision of childcare facilities and the development of company and inter-company crèches will help to maintain women in employment. these results can be achieved, in particular, by collective bargaining between the social partners. the crisis has been a factor in the increase in violence against women (harassment, violence at work and domestic violence). budget cuts must not affect the funding of programmes and associations to combat such violence. it is important to stress the important role of women in overcoming the crisis and that the commission's proposals on gender balance in positions of responsibility are in the right direction. beyond this, it is a set of measures that should be taken to advance the place of women in society so that they are more involved in the decision-making, political and economic process.
in writing. the resolution adopted today concerns the fight against gender stereotypes in the eu. the report was adopted by 368 votes to 159, with 98 abstentions. the main objectives are: the elimination of clichés in the media, such as advertising or children's programmes, and in education. we wanted to reduce the exposure of children to discriminatory messages based on sexism. we also pointed to the gaps in european legislation on this subject and advocated that the european social fund should also be used to attract women to sectors which are not 'traditionally considered as female', such as information technology or mechanics. we have also taken the opportunity once again to advocate the introduction of binding quotas in national parliaments and... asked the member states to nominate candidates of both sexes for the posts of european commissioners. i applaud that idea with both hands! the composition of the next commission should indeed be geared to parity...
in writing. yes, i supported the resolution on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the union this afternoon, but with a pinch of salt and without enthusiasm. our duty is imperative, it is a matter of fighting discrimination which has a hard life, but the text goes in all directions, a typical product of our women's committee! 6 pages, 69 paragraphs, a litany as long as a day without bread, messy bans (including videos and songs), requests for studies, research, new quotas ... in short, we lose the essential. fortunately, some paragraphs that were meaningless were removed, such as the one that wanted to ban pornography in the media. this is undefined. what is pornography? a boring sexual practice for some is already pornography for others. who's going to draw the line? let's get serious and get to the point. zero tolerance, and sanctions for all discrimination in hiring, harassment, intimidation, wage inequality... focus on education and training, which is the basis of all the clichés that still survive. we had to make it short and sweet. the text loses its meaning through gossip. that's too bad. missed the act.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, for which i was the 'fictitious rapporteur'. the following points need to be addressed if women's participation in the labour market and in economic and political decision-making is to be increased. first, gender stereotypes in primary and secondary schools influence the perception of young children and adolescents of how men and women should behave. special programmes and textbooks should therefore be introduced, where men and women are moved out of their 'traditional roles' of male breadwinner and female child-rearing. secondly, the disproportionate representation of women in parttime jobs and the pay gap clearly show that gender stereotypes lead to gender discrimination in the labour market. awareness campaigns are therefore needed to inform employers, employees and stakeholders about the link between gender stereotypes and the gender pay gap and the link between part-time employment and the risk of a lower retirement.
in writing. the annual cost of environmental enforcement failures is some €50 billion in direct health and environmental costs. this inefficient implementation also creates uncertainty in enterprises and increases their bureaucratic burden, thus generating higher costs. member states must take all necessary measures to protect the environment and support sustainable development, taking into account a healthy and competitive economy. the correct and timely implementation of european law will ensure that the desired results are achieved. the availability of reliable, comparable and easily accessible information on the state of the environment is essential to monitor the progress of implementation in an effective manner. citizens must be actively informed about environmental policies at an early stage in order to be involved in the development and implementation of these policies. the legislation must be applied in clear and simple terms, without prejudice to its effectiveness. it must be adapted to the needs, regularly assessed in this respect and adjusted accordingly, if necessary.
in writing. i have fully followed the recommendations of my colleague jo leinen on this matter. this report responds to the commission's communication exploring ways of strengthening the implementation and enforcement of eu environmental legislation, in order to improve the state of the environment and reverse trends that are moving us away from sustainability. the report advocates improving the methods of collecting information on the state of the environment, through the implementation of more efficient information systems, both at member state and union level. the report also addresses the increase in efficiency through the handling of problems on site, as well as through improved inspections and surveillance, complaint handling and access to justice. following the s&d group's contributions, the report is now sound and in line with the commission's approach.
madam president, i would like to make one small point. in belgium, snow conditions are historic. there's a thousand miles of traffic jams on the roads today. the previous record was 700 kilometers. let's not blame the commissioner. if it's not there, it's because cars are moving at a moderate speed on the highways. it's a shame he's not here. we know, mr nicholson, that we've all worked hard, but please, let's not make any intentional lawsuits against the commissioner. it's better if he drives carefully and arrives. whoever goes first goes first.
mr president, commissioner, will we be discussing reform or adaptation of the cap tomorrow? it's up to us. the reform of the cap will deserve the title of reform if we strengthen the redistributive effect of european aid to agriculture. external and internal convergence are already moving in this direction. differentiated aid for young farmers is also included. but more fundamentally, i want to talk about the cap on aid. for the first time, the commission has considered it and it has been decided and proposed at the level of this parliament. perhaps we should go further and support the proposals for a capping of 100 000 or even 200 000 euros, with a degressive rate, which we particularly support. why would you do that? because 300,000 is a gesture, but it is not enough, because in my country, only two farmers out of 30,000 are affected. the differentiated aid for the first hectares is a proposal supported by our former colleague stéphane le foll, now minister of agriculture; it is interesting because it allows aid to be redistributed to a whole series of smaller farms, where livestock production is predominant, which need more aid and offer a higher employment intensity: it is aid that will support employment in agriculture. it is essential that we support these proposals.
mr president, i am speaking in particular to those of my colleagues who, like myself, are not members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, but who are very concerned about this matter of the cap. i can tell you that all of us, especially those who are not members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, have also received thousands and thousands of contributions and requests from citizens, particularly on our tablets and other computer instruments. so it is up to us tomorrow to vote in favour of a greener and fairer agricultural policy. i will take the example, commissioner, of the milk question: as we know, the high-level working party has not produced any interesting and adequate results. overproduction is not a mode of operation, overproduction is completely suicidal. it's suicidal for the farmers, because it doesn't pay them and they sell at a loss. it is also suicidal for europe itself, which must be able to distinguish itself by producing quality milk, rather than overproducing and selling surpluses to india, china or elsewhere. this is the model that hundreds of thousands of european citizens are asking us to adopt. i therefore ask you to pay particular attention to your voting list tomorrow, especially for those who have not yet voted in the agri committee. there is still time to identify areas where it is possible to move this cap towards something fairer and greener. this is the moment, this is our responsibility, and i call on you -- i call on us -- to take it.
in writing. the reform of the cap is of paramount importance. it is essential that it enables us to ensure sustainable and high-quality agricultural production. to achieve this, we must be careful not to add to the administrative and financial burdens already placed on our farmers. i am of course in favour of the principle of environmental responsibility, but farmers are not just gardeners. it will be important in the forthcoming negotiations with the council to support a more flexible greening. in order to optimise the cap's aid, abuse must also be combated. at present, too many entities without a predominant agricultural activity benefit from direct payments from europe. the aim is therefore to establish a more equitable redistribution system, which supports small farms and young farmers, guaranteeing local and quality agricultural production.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not go into the particular situation we are facing. prepare guidelines for a 2014 budget, while the financial framework is not yet finalised. i shall concentrate on one specific point, namely, one of our group's amendments which is particularly close to my heart, amendment no 31. i am convinced that one of the best instruments of solidarity between member states is and will remain the european budget. this amendment is intended to avoid the withdrawal from the european funds of certain member states which are facing financial difficulties and are therefore having difficulties in implementing european programmes. not only do we need ambitious budgetary envelopes, particularly for growth, employment, young people, reindustrialisation and aid to the poorest, but we also need measures to facilitate the implementation of these cohesion and structural funds. we really need a real european spirit of solidarity which will give european citizens confidence.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to start where mr hughes ended and put a request to you. may i ask that you raise the issue of hungary in your intervention on thursday in the european council, because what is happening there at the moment is really an offence against the principles of the union. i do not think we can carry on turning around this problem any longer, as we have been doing now for more than 18 months, i would say. we have to start the procedure under article 7 of the treaty. that would not mean sanctions are decided immediately. one would start with an analysis of the situation in hungary and with giving recommendations. my request to you is that you raise this in the council. i would also ask the irish presidency to put it on the agenda of the council and i shall also ask the commission to raise the point in the council. some of you are saying that we have to examine this. what do we have to examine? it is crystal clear! there are a number of breaches of european union values. this has been noted by the european commission, by the venice commission, by the hungarian constitutional court, by a number of european institutions. in hungary what they have done now is they have simply put all these breaches of european union values inside the constitution, and then they say: the problem is solved, it is fully compliant with the constitution in hungary, so these breaches of european union values can continue. so my request to you, to mr barroso and to the irish presidency, is to take this seriously now and have a discussion in the council based on article 7. (applause) my second remark is about the spring council itself. mr barroso has written a letter to the european council and i quote one sentence from it, at the end of the first paragraph: ‘we are not yet out of the crisis, but we can see that reform efforts of member states are starting to bear fruit’. that is what mr barroso has written in that letter. i have to say that when i make an assessment of the key data on gdp, unemployment, and public debt and deficit, i am less optimistic about the situation in europe for the moment. what i see is the following. seven countries are in recession today, that means less than zero growth, it is negative growth. nine countries are in stagnation, that means less than 1 % economic growth, and it is the same in the uk where there is also economic stagnation. i see eight countries with an unemployment figure higher than 10 %, two countries even – spain and greece – with an unemployment figure of 27 % today. i see public debt and deficits while all countries in the eurozone except for two, estonia and luxembourg, are breaching the rules of the stability pact. it is not better outside the eurozone, mr callanan, because the uk also has nearly 100 % of public debt. it is not only a question of figures. what i see is: in greece the rise of the extreme right; in italy there is no government; in cyprus banks are failing; in spain we have a lost generation for the moment with an unemployment figure of 50%; and in france, in belgium, and in the netherlands new savings packages are needed to comply with a number of rules. finally, in ireland, we are entering into the sixth year of austerity. for the moment, the real assessment of the european union is that we do not need less fiscal discipline, mr hughes, because, let us be honest, you need fiscal discipline for growth in the mid-term and the long-term. no, what we need to recognise is that we need a second track. we do not have a second track for the moment. we do not need to abolish the first track of fiscal discipline – that would be a huge mistake – we need to put a second track in place as fast as possible, and the second track is solidarity, is growth, is investment. it is mainly what we know all about, which is the mutualisation of debt, redemption funds, euro bills, and that is the only way to lower interest rates in a number of countries in the south of europe. how can you solve the problems in countries like spain and italy which still have 5 % or 6 % interest rates today? half of the efforts of these governments today are going into interest payments to the bondholders instead of helping to give a boost to the economy. my conclusion is that instead of analysing the forecasts now, let us develop that vision. let us develop the second track and let us not make the mistake, mr hughes, of making a choice between growth and solidarity. it is growth and solidarity, but work on it with the council and with the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr gollnish, the far right you speak of has been wiped off the map by the voters in belgium. so the problem is solved in the meantime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that the report of the sure special committee which we voted on here, which was probably not peru, is a report which was not voted on ten years ago; he was in 2011. it wasn't that long ago. i would also remind you that the letter from the four group chairmen mentioned ten years ago was sent the day after the council made that bad proposal. in other words, we are not completely disconnected from those moments when we said 'we do not want this council proposal, we want more and we want better'. so the small national instructions to protect one or the other part of the budget, because it suits this or that country, is not what should move us. as we said, it's not our responsibility. yes, a review clause may help us, but explain to me how, in two years, we will have a completely different balance of power. i want to see! yes, flexibility will undoubtedly help us, but explain to the european citizens that shifting a part of the budget from one year to another or from one column to another will fundamentally change things. yes, perhaps the eurosceptics and nationalists in this parliament want this budget and nothing else. but all the others, those who voted for the report; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, let me first of all congratulate the european council on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. for the first time, the council has cut the budget because citizens are being asked to do the same. the deal puts an end to the mantra that ‘more europe is the only medicine’. having dealt with the quantity, we now focus on the quality. improvements are needed. the current budget reflects too much a planned economy, agriculture and structural funds. we are building too many bridges to nowhere and we need to focus more on innovation. the budget deal unravels the orthodoxy of the ever closer union. there are limits, and we have run into them. look at the eurozone. the crisis was supposed to be over and it is not. the italians voted against the ‘triple b’ – brussels, berlin and barroso. europe needs more flexibility, less one-size-fits-all. we need to identify the core tasks of the european union and also the european tasks member states can do better amongst themselves. finally, we must identify powers that are better returned to the member states altogether. i am in favour of europe – a united europe of states, a europe of the possible, instead of just messing around.
mr president, madam president, many of the council members felt that the compromise of 27 was sufficient to pass the multiannual framework. parliament has a say. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the budget. that's not true. this is wrong and the council has not yet understood that the crisis of citizens' confidence in europe is even more dangerous than the financial crisis. if europe does not respond to the 26 million unemployed by giving them a tremendous boost to employment, if it does not protect its industries and its young people, if it betrays its commitments to the third world, if it cuts humanitarian aid, if it cuts food aid to the poorest, it is really signalling the doom of the european dream. to commit his austerity budget for seven years is pure folly which we will not share. but i want to answer mr gollnisch and mr farage. mr president, i would say on behalf of my party that if mr gollnish wants to go back to the period before the european dream, before the war of 1940-45, he will have the answer: 'this is war'. mitterrand said nationalism is war. if mr farage wants to stigmatise romanian citizens at home with shameful national - why not racist and ethnic - statistics, let him stigmatise the tax havens, the city and the banks, which have committed the biggest fraud at european level. i wanted to answer him because i didn't get a chance to do a blue card.
mr president, the next council's debates on the european semester and on economic and monetary union are linked to those of the last council on the budgetary framework, which we must reject as it stands. it is with the argument of the economic crisis in europe and the austerity decided by the council to deal with it that some heads of state justify austerity in the european budget. yet it is because member states' budgets are under pressure, because they are struggling to maintain social protection, to boost growth to raise employment levels, to support their industries to avoid restructuring that member states need to change their view of the european budget, which could alleviate their difficulties and boost their economies. this will be achieved through ambitious social funds for the young, the most deprived and the working people, and through a transnational strategy to support research and industry. i would like to conclude by stressing that coordination of economic policies and the strengthening of economic and monetary union must be accompanied by more european budgetary resources and more solidarity between the member states and between citizens.
the european spring summit will traditionally focus on socioeconomic policy, although it is in danger of becoming a bit of an empty box this year. all the substantive issues have been postponed to the june summit. but maybe there are benefits to this. the commission has thus had a few extra months to evaluate its policy so far. the fact that the unilateral focus on savings is not having the desired effect may be clear to many, but the commission is nonetheless adhering to this framework. however, she does not have to look far to see its effects. for example, in the 20 growth forecasts the commission has published for greece since 2009, it has had to revise its growth expectations downwards each time, despite the imposed austerity path. and to top it off, the final economic result consistently fell short of the lowest growth forecast, with a margin of error of at least 6% of gdp! and it is on these forecasts that the committee is basing its macroeconomic policy objectives (say, austerity programmes). i would strongly recommend that the committee use the months to june to urgently consider an alternative approach.
mr president, now that we have finished with agriculture, we must eat naturally, otherwise it is useless. the other points are non-agricultural points; so we can discuss it tomorrow, since the agenda is not too full for votes. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, many of us are back in session at 3 p.m. and have been here since 9 a.m. no national legislation provides for continuous work without a lunch break.
i am not going to go into the details of the situation in egypt. we certainly acknowledge the efforts made by mr morsi in the international arena, and in particular his mediation in the course of operation pillar of defence, which resulted in a ceasefire. but on the domestic level, in which we do not wish to interfere, it is true that the developments since the beginning of december - with the constitutional affair, the unrest in the country and a set of steps that, in the end, are not going in the right direction - worry us. we all wonder how the more for more of the new neighbourhood policy can be implemented without penalising the egyptian people. the economic situation in egypt is appalling. unemployment and poverty are appalling. so the idea of saying, "we're not going to do what we promised to do, which is help you", is not conceivable. so i would like to develop three aspects with you. first, in the more for more, let's have very specific objectives. in other words, if we want to help, let us help target groups that we care about, and in particular, it will not surprise you, women. secondly, let us work together - all the egyptian people will be grateful to us - to recover the assets of the mubarak regime. it's a huge project, it's something very difficult. these assets are scattered in european banks and it is a complicated matter where we could help egypt and that would be perfectly understood by the egyptian people. thirdly, i ask you to make a strong plea that the death sentences in port said be converted at least into prison sentences, in order to calm the game there. we are against the death penalty. it's time to make it heard.
mr president, egypt presents us with enormous challenges. there are so many that sometimes we do not know where to start. so how should we proceed? i believe that the only way to proceed is to prioritise a number of concerns. the difficulty is that we want the egyptian authorities to make a number of decisions, but they should make them themselves. we cannot substitute ourselves for them and that makes things difficult. if i can try to prioritise, i believe that first of all the 21 or 23 death sentences that were pronounced should be commuted to prison sentences. secondly, i believe that the invitation to ‘witness’ the elections should be changed to an invitation to properly monitor those elections, so that we can do it a meaningful way. thirdly, we probably should be talking to the opposition parties. i am not sure that their decision to boycott the election is the wisest of decisions. of course it is theirs to take, but we should nevertheless keep contacts open. we should help with trying to unfreeze the monies and fortune of the mubarak regime. finally, i believe we should accompany the egyptian authorities and the egyptian people – and first among those the women – on the path towards more stability.
president, madam high representative, i join those who have expressed great concern about the disturbing incidents, the chaotic political developments and the enormous economic challenges. i believe that we, and you in particular, must continue to make it very clear and very consistently that certain developments are unacceptable to us. i refer, for example, to the increase in violence, the actions of the police, the violation of women's rights, and the new legislation on ngos, which makes it impossible to develop a critical civil society. well, we have seen some human rights activists last week and they or at least some of them tell us that the human rights situation is even worse than in the mubarak era. and of course you can't. you have very rightly stressed that democracy is much more than being able to go to the polls. and i ask you to repeat that consistently. the second major issue is, of course, the economic situation. egypt will not become stable unless hope and perspective can be given to the modal egyptians. it is a very complex problem that will not be easily solved. egypt will not be able to solve this alone. so my question is this: what initiatives will you take with egypt and other international partners to find a lasting solution to bring this great country out of the doldrums, and how does this fit in with the 'more for more' principle?
i am not saying that we should not be doing something, but that we should be engaging in a humanitarian battle that is now beyond anything we have ever seen before. and i think this humanitarian battle is difficult, but it's urgent, and it sometimes kills almost as much as war. as we said, there are one million refugees today and that number is still increasing every day. the situation is destabilizing in all countries of the region. it is destabilizing lebanon. she is destabilizing jordan. turkey's efforts in this welcome operation are to be commended. it's almost unheard of, but unfortunately, the curve is upward. at the same time, a report by unicef officials tells us that if the international community does not meet its financial commitments for this humanitarian aid, they will stop paying as early as march and will no longer be able to provide humanitarian aid. and we hear doctors without borders, we see mrs georgieva, tell us that there are both financial difficulties and access difficulties. don't tell me this fight isn't worth fighting. i think that today, with the number of lives at stake, women giving birth in camps, children who are now without vaccination, everything, it is still not to be helpless to deal with this. so now, as you said, the solution can only be political. can we use a weapon to say "this will push for political negotiation". i personally don't believe in it. i believe in a political solution, but i have the impression - knowing the region a little - that providing an excess of arms to a rebel camp that is extremely heterogeneous, that i respect, and that is fighting in a remarkable way, that providing an excess of arms, in this asymmetrical war, is not going to cause fewer deaths, but more, and that the emphasis should be on the political side. the political impotence we feel today, i feel it, you probably feel it, but it will not be solved by more arms. those in public opinion, and there are many, who want to help the syrian revolutionaries of the first hour today, must be careful before choosing their side.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, baroness ashton, we are now two years on from the start of the revolution and we are now at a death toll of 70 000, and we continue to see – and to say – that we need a political solution. well, we have been working for such a solution for two years and the outcome is 70 000 dead in syria and 70 000 new refugees every day. in one of the refugee camps in the north, there are more than 10 000 children. they have nothing at all: they have gone for weeks without milk, for days without food; there are hardly any toilets and there is no heating. in these camps, where there are currently more than one million refugees, children die every day – and what we are doing? yes, we give money. of course, we send aid. but almost none of that money or that aid is going to these people. no: our aid is going to the areas held by the regime because that, mr president, is the way that the un and the red cross work – through governments, through regimes, through assad. that is why almost all our money is currently going only to the people loyal to assad. it is not going to aleppo, nor to idlib, nor to homs. even worse, a few weeks ago three convoys were sent for the first time to the north of syria bringing the wrong goods to the wrong places. we have to understand that this is a humanitarian disaster. our search for a political solution, as you describe it, has seen not only 70 000 killings, but also the development of a humanitarian disaster, and we rapidly need to change our way of seeing the problems in syria. first of all, baroness ashton, you know that general idris, whom you have received, has asked for weapons. his argumentation is very clear: the embargo is currently working against the victims of assad, not in favour of them. fortunately, we are now seeing a change in a number of countries. britain is now to send armoured vehicles; the americans have promised armoured vehicles and what they call ‘non-lethal’ weapons. in my opinion, this is the first step towards ending the embargo – an embargo which, i repeat, is only working against the victims. then we have to do something on the issue of aid. we must try to ensure that this aid is given directly to the liberated areas. we should know that most of northern syria has been liberated and is under the control of the free syrian army, so it is not so difficult to do. most of the camps lie right at the border with turkey, so we need to stop thinking that we first require the approval of the assad regime in syria before we can act. there is now also – as has been confirmed to you by general idris – a network organised by the syrian national council and the free syrian army to distribute aid to the people who really need it. so the task is not so difficult. do not tell me, baroness ashton, that it is difficult! such words are for bureaucrats, but we are both politicians, and we need to find solutions. i hope that in the coming weeks you can bring about a dramatic change, at least on the humanitarian aid front.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to express my admiration for the action taken by france; we have already had the opportunity to discuss this when the mali operation was about to begin. we know that our friends in mali have been crying out for help for a long time. for almost a year they called us europeans, and finally france went there when it was almost too late. what has happened today is also commendable. indeed, and it is almost surreal - forgive me, because we are coming from a debate on syria where we only manage to adopt a very defensive attitude - here, to see, in a country that is no simpler than syria, that we were able, following france, and after the sahel strategy of 2011, to deploy a set of structures and move forward in a political process that is not yet finished, but that could be properly carried out. so far, i dare not say, considering the french soldiers who have fallen, that it is a success story. i dare not say that, considering also the women who were raped in timbuktu. but i would like to say that this is all for the good of europe. now there are a few points that might need to be revised. i would like the european training mission which has just been set up to be a mission flying european flags. i think we had to put a french general at its head - it is true that france is a privileged player - but it is indeed time for european colours to prevail there. we've been so slow to act. secondly, i thank you, commissioner, for what you said about taking account of human rights and women's rights. human rights for the military. women's rights, i hope, also at the level of justice, because the committee on dialogue and reconciliation is a reconciling body. but i would also like justice to be done and there should be no impunity for the crimes that took place there. finally, there is a question mark: all this does not yet enable us to combat the endemic evils of drug trafficking, terrorism and kidnapping. i am not sure that what we have put in place will be enough to tackle this scourge that is eating africa to its core.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, mr secretary-general, i have just led a study and information mission to mali on behalf of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, a number of considerations which i have drawn from this mission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the initiative of president hollande and his government deserves our full support. although a number of european countries have made some efforts, it must be admitted that their commitments are often not as much as they should be, and in some cases are simply declaratory. the current contributions from the member states are not sufficient. our analysis leads us to make an urgent appeal that their contributions in terms of manpower, logistics and equipment be commensurate with france's risk-taking and the stakes posed by the malian conflict. i want to say this emphatically: the war that is shaking the north of mali is a war that goes far beyond mali. it is a war that affects us all directly! we cannot leave france alone in the face of this challenge. this mission informs us of a number of realities which, moreover, go against the grain of a feeling which is often approximate to reality. my first conviction is that the cause of the conflict in mali is not malian, tuareg or ethnic but that this conflict is caused by non-malian movements, aqmi, mnla, mujao, ansar dine, mia. all these movements have allied themselves for the worse according to their particular interests. the jihadists have pulled the strings of this sordid game. we know terrorism is a global threat. the attack on im amenas in algeria is an example of this. my second conviction is that we cannot underestimate the special position and status of captain sanogo, promoted to chairman of the military committee for reform of the security forces. he's still a very troubling character. the mandate and visibility which has been entrusted to it with great lightness, even great imprudence, gives it a real capacity for nuisance. his role puts him in direct contact with the entire military hierarchy, of which he is the trade union spokesman. the international partners have a vested interest in speeding up the restructuring of the army. it seems very urgent. my third conviction, which you mentioned, is the transformation of misma into a united nations peacekeeping force tasked with stabilizing the country. i think it will be acceptable only if this force is not limited to peacekeeping but is capable of peacemaking and, therefore, we cannot stress too strongly that the mandate of this new mission should allow for strong interventions based on the possible use of force. i therefore believe that a stronger un mandate is essential. my fourth conviction, as the french minister of defence, jean-yves le drian, said two days ago, is that the political process must begin as soon as possible. he's right, you know. this process must be based on three requirements. we must hold elections as soon as possible and not give way to explanations or excuses to delay them. that would be a mistake, from my point of view. the timetable proposed by the government seems to me to be correct. the second requirement, as has been said, is that the dialogue and reconciliation committee should be activated. i agree with you, commissioner. if this is to be a peaceful committee, it must of course be inclusive. the third requirement which has not been mentioned today is the absolute need to involve the countries of the field and the region. there will be no stabilisation in mali unless all the countries of the region are included in the process. finally, it has just been said - and i obviously share this view - that it is high time for europe to speak and act with one voice and to lay the foundations for a european army capable of being deployed in such operational areas.
president. - mr belder, in his explanatory statement, spoke of the dream of chinese citizens and gave several examples. i would like to add one more example, mr president, and that is the dream - several other colleagues have also spoken about it - the dream of the citizens of tibet, a dream about respect for their language, their culture, their religion, a dream about the right to self-determination. because china, of course, has not only become an economic giant, recently overtaking the united states in absolute trade figures. it is also a complex country with diverse populations. and that reality is at odds with china's ambition to always come out as one. the dozens of self-immolations since 2009 show that china really needs to implement political reform now that it needs to end political repression, end imposed cultural assimilation policies and so on. mutual respect will only be achieved through a politically correct manner of acting, under the new chinese leader xi jinping, with respect for human rights. the european union must not only encourage china to do so, but also put pressure on china.
member of the commission. − mr president, match fixing and corruption pose the greatest threats to european sport today, and the european commission is determined to do all it can to help the sports authorities tackle them. i am certainly aware of the involvement of organised criminal networks in the latest match-fixing scandal affecting professional football in europe. my services have been in contact with europol to discuss the case, and i welcome the action taken by europol so far. the commission adopted a recommendation for a council decision on the negotiation of a council of europe convention against the manipulation of sports competitions in november 2012. that recommendation calls on the member states to allow the commission to join them in the negotiations. we expect the council to adopt its negotiating directives in the near future. i believe that the convention, once adopted, will send a strong signal on europe’s determination to safeguard the integrity of sport. the convention should also be open for signature by non-european countries, thus addressing the global dimension of the problem. in order to ensure a comprehensive approach, all competent commission services are now working closely together to ensure consistency with the eu acquis on criminal law, data protection and the internal market. as the recent announcement made by europol shows, the involvement of law enforcement agencies, and notably their cooperation at eu level, is essential to combat the threat of match fixing. these latest cases of match-fixing are likely to require close coordination among judicial authorities involved in criminal investigation and prosecution. the competent authorities will be able to rely on eurojust for the practical coordination of cross-border prosecution, but also on a whole range of instruments adopted in the field of judicial cooperation, including the european arrest warrant. however, policing and prosecution are only one part of the solution. in order to be effective, the fight against match fixing needs to include preventive measures as well. i am glad to inform you that, under the 2012 preparatory actions for sport, the commission selected five projects in the area of match-fixing. these projects will help to educate the relevant actors and raise awareness about the problem within both the sports movement and the general public. work on these five projects started at the beginning of 2013, and results are expected in the first half of 2014. the coordinators of the projects are working together to achieve synergies and common strategies. the outcome of the projects will help us to spread good practices and strengthen networks. i would also like to add that i am working closely with my colleague, commissioner barnier, to address the problem of match-fixing from the angle of sports betting. on 23 november 2012, the commission adopted an action plan on online gambling, which included a chapter on the integrity of sport. one of the actions proposed by the commission is a recommendation to be adopted in 2014. the recommendation will encourage a more efficient exchange of good practices in the prevention and combating of betting-related match fixing. the commission therefore intends to involve all the relevant stakeholders in this process. the results of the 2012 preparatory actions will also provide useful input. other initiatives such as studies, workshops and expert meetings will gather evidence and inform the drafting of the recommendation. finally, on 5 february 2013, the commission adopted a proposal to review the eu’s anti-money laundering directive. in the light of concerns that the gambling sector is vulnerable to money laundering, the commission has proposed to broaden the scope of the directive beyond casinos to cover the whole gambling sector. given the evolution of money laundering risks, it is important that the eu framework is able to respond in a robust but also flexible way.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my thanks to our colleagues petra kammerevert and morten løkkegaard for this joint initiative. i will continue in dutch. commissaris, het onderzoek van europol heeft inderdaad aangetoond dat omkoperij en fraude een grote bedreiging zijn voor de professionele sportcompetities in europa. en het is duidelijk dat we met de nationale aanpak er niet meer komen. we hebben een europese aanpak nodig, daar is al duidelijk over gesproken, en zelfs een internationale aanpak. eerst en vooral moet er een structurele en spontane uitwisseling komen van gegevens tussen alle stakeholders, dus 'betting operators on the one hand, the sportfederations on the other hand' en natuurlijk ook de national regulators moeten samenwerken om tot een spontane, structurele uitwisseling van informatie te komen over de bestaande problemen. ten tweede vragen we in deze resolutie, mevrouw de commissaris, zeer duidelijk een wetgevend initiatief van de commissie om fraude in de sport overal in europa onder het strafrecht te laten vallen. dit is vandaag niet het geval en de georganiseerde misdaad maakt daar misbruik van, van dat gefragmenteerde speelveld, als ik het zo mag zeggen, in de europese unie. sportfraude, match fixing, moet onder het strafrecht vallen en er moeten duidelijke sancties aan verbonden worden. ten derde, we moeten het illegale aanbod veel harder aanpakken. illegale websites, die niet geregistreerd, niet gelicentieerd zijn, moeten op een zwarte lijst komen, zodat de burgers die op een gereglementeerde manier willen gokken, dat ook kunnen doen. we hebben ook, last but not least, een verbod nodig op gokken op wedstrijden met minderjarigen. dat zou 'europewide' moeten zijn. er moet een soort van gedragscode komen waar opnieuw alle stakeholders bij betrokken zijn, die duidelijk zegt dat er niet gegokt wordt op wedstrijden waar minderjarigen bij betrokken worden. ik rond af, voorzitter. het gokschandaal toont aan dat de bestaande maatregelen, early warning systems, dat die niet volstaan en het is, commissaris, hoog tijd om nu in een hogere versnelling te gaan. u zult honderd procent steun krijgen van het parlement in alle maatregelen die u van plan bent de komende tijd te nemen en aan het nemen bent.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution on the protection of women's rights in north african countries. we have asked that the constitutions of these countries explicitly refer to the principle of equality and put an end to violence against women. this is a vital support to the women who are fighting for freedom, democracy and universal human rights in this part of the world. we must support and accompany this difficult transition and ensure that their rights are recognized and protected by the constitution and the law!
in writing. the union has a role to play through its new neighbourhood policy. by supporting the construction of democratic regimes and economic and social development, the european union could help its neighbours to the south to fulfil the aspirations expressed by the popular uprisings: more democracy, more freedom and more justice. in the actions undertaken by the union, it must be borne in mind that there is no real democracy if half the population is not taken into account. gender equality and women's rights should therefore be among the union's priorities and progress in this area should be taken into account when assessing the commitments made by the partners under the 'more for more' policy. to this end, women and women's organisations should be involved in the negotiation process with the authorities when deciding on priorities and programmes under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament on the mff 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we are calling for measures to make the budgetary framework more efficient and more modern. the main aim is to introduce maximum flexibility between budget lines and years, to accept a revision clause in the current framework and to give a thorough thought to the eu's own resources, which would make it possible to be less dependent on the member states.
in writing. the union's development cooperation policy is governed by the millennium development goals (mdgs), two of which are specifically aimed at women and three of which directly contribute to improving the living conditions of women and girls. these objectives have been successful in reducing poverty. the increase in poverty is greater among women than among men. recalling also that the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000, provides that the situation of women and gender issues are systematically taken into account in all political, economic and social fields; the european union action plan should recognise the importance of women's participation and the gender perspective for the development of partner countries and for the achievement of the mdgs, and confirm that gender equality is a priority for union action in the 'agenda for change'.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament can reject the council's budget proposal for the first time and will make use of this option if necessary. the budget proposed carries enormous risks, because it is taking on a huge deficit by promising more than the planned expenditure can cover. the budget proposal is a rejection of solidarity between the poor and rich regions of europe, since it does not provide the necessary resources to promote growth. investment in growth is necessary because it helps to create new jobs and ensure social justice. i therefore support the call for the eu to be equipped with the necessary resources to invest in innovation and research, development, infrastructure and youth. i particularly welcome the request in the motion for a resolution that the council should vote on the mff by a qualified majority in the future, so that blockades by individual countries will no longer stand in the way of progress by others. the european elections will also be held next year. the current eu parliament should therefore not be the one to decide on the budget for the next seven years, but should be able to revise the financial framework. i am very pleased that this adjustment clause is included in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the respite of the heads of state or government will be short-lived! the european parliament rejected this afternoon the tight budgetary envelope bitterly negotiated in the early hours of 8 february. the four main groups (512 votes against 144) have joined forces to denounce a budget deficit, without vision or ambition, which is devoted to intergovernmentalism at the expense of growth, investment for the future, research, infrastructure, but also aid to the poorest and europe's place in the world. no national leader would accept this austerity that is frozen for seven years and without revision. i have of course supported this 'combat' resolution, which rejects a budget devoid of any means of boosting the competitiveness of our economy, in order to take a clear stand against the european council's agreement. the negotiations between the states and parliament can finally begin. the room for manoeuvre is tight. the adoption of the multiannual financial framework is expected to take place in july, if all goes well. but after all, what's the rush? without agreement, the 2013 budget will be extended for an additional year. in the meantime, the parliamentary majority that emerged this afternoon must remain united and independent of the wishes of the national capitals.
in writing. given the current economic conditions, all actors in our society need access to independent, reliable, comparable and timely data to be able to monitor and assess the economic reality. this is the main objective of this regulation. based on the latest revision of the un system of national accounts, it aims to establish the rules to be applied for the collection and publication of basic macroeconomic data in the eu. the aim of this regulation is to ensure automated methods of real-time data collection, maximum transparency of public sector activities, limitation of derogations to the strict minimum in order to give a clear and complete picture, etc. this regulation on the european system of national and regional accounts in the eu will make it easier for us all to know precisely where we stand in economic terms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which also proposes to strengthen the commission's proposal as follows: the data provided should be as complete as possible to ensure maximum transparency, in particular with regard to the public sector, and it insists that such data be produced and published taking into account the needs of the user; further methodological work is needed to provide a more complete picture of environmental aspects, household activities and the public sector. limit the derogations to the strict minimum in order to give a clear and complete picture. recent events have shown that even countries with a gdp that is only a small fraction of that of the union can have systemic effects. not having complete information for small countries is not a viable option. the commission must completely revise the data transmission programme: in fact, the programme presented in annex b is confusing and does not allow a full understanding of the content, frequency and timing of the statistics which the member states must publish.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent colleague, mrs pervenche berès. in my view, the provisions of the maritime labour convention 2006 on flag state control should be incorporated into european union law in a more detailed and specific way. the main advantage of incorporating the maritime labour convention into eu law is that it will be much more strictly enforced within the union, for example through eu infringement procedures, which will ensure even greater compliance with the provisions. the european union provisions on flag state control should take much better account of the specific and explicit requirements of the maritime labour convention in order to avoid differences of interpretation between member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. this guidance report sets out the main political priorities for the 2014 budget and provides an overview of the constraints on the budget. it is difficult to set the 2014 ceilings as there is still uncertainty both about the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 and about the level of payments. the precise details of eu policies will be defined later, when the european parliament adopts its resolution in july 2013, based on an assessment of the 2014 draft budget and taking into account the input of the various specialised committees. in view of the shortcomings and deficiencies in payment appropriations which have led to a deficit in the eu budget, parliament calls on the commission to submit a draft amending budget by the end of march 2013 taking into account the outstanding claims and not to accept an insufficient level of payment for the next mff (2014-2020).
in writing. − it is important to define the distribution of seats in the european parliament after 2014. i do welcome the fact that the basis for the new distribution of seats is the principle of 'no one wins, no one loses' when more than one seat has been won. nevertheless, this calculation results in some member states, including belgium, losing an important seat in the eu parliament. it is therefore important that at national level the loss of a seat does not restrict the principle that particularly small countries should be represented in accordance with their national structure, i.e. the regions. the loss of a seat should not lead to the minorities of each member state having to give up their seat, so that diversity is preserved not only within europe but also within the member states and their regions.
in writing. due to the accession of croatia to the eu, the number of seats allocated to some member states will have to be revised. according to the eu treaty, the representation of citizens in the ep must be degressively proportional. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the latter includes a reduction of one, two or three seats for 13 member states. in this new scenario, belgium is again facing a decline in seats, whereas it was already the case a few years ago, and some large eu member states are passing through the net. in politics there are rarely positive solutions in all respects. you always have a choice between a very bad solution and a not-so-bad one. here i chose the least bad. i must say that it was impossible to find a better solution.
in writing. article 14 (2) of the lisbon treaty sets the number of meps at 751, with effect from the next elections to the european parliament. it introduces a maximum of 96 seats and a minimum of 6 seats per member state and requires that the allocation of these seats among member states be based on the principle of degressive proportionality. the european parliament currently has 754 meps (plus the president). there will be 766 with the accession of croatia. as a result, this number must be reduced to 15 before next year's elections. the treaty states that the change is to be decided unanimously by the european council on the basis of a proposal from the european parliament. the gualtieri-trzaskowski report is the european parliament's draft proposal. a strict mathematical application of the principle of degressive proportionality would result in heavy losses for small and mediumsized member states and gains for larger ones. the draft proposal is therefore based on the principle that 'no one loses or gains more than one seat', while respecting as far as possible the principle of degressive proportionality.
in writing. i did not support this afternoon horst schnellhardt's proposal to reject the harmonized definition of absinthe liqueur proposed by the commission. it's impossible for me to understand his arguments. or rather, i understand them too well. the rejection of the compromise which the council reached almost unanimously actually allows those in europe who usurp the name to continue to sell liquors of any kind under the name of absinthe. in the interests of transparency, the commission wanted the consumer to be clearly informed. the absinthe label is used for liqueur from artemisia absinthum, and all other labels for flavoured liqueurs from other plants. logic, would you say? yes, and the approach taken to fruit juices (name matching the content), or in the great "vodka quarrel". the same german rapporteur, curiously enough, had then insisted that vodkas made from something other than cereals or potatoes should bear the indication. two weights, two measures. he has just convinced parliament that absinthe can be sold to the consumer with impunity without... absinthe. it's very strong, isn't it? a whole traditional sector has just been robbed of its rightful claim to value. that's too bad.
in writing. we vetoed the proposal to define absinthe in european legislation on wednesday. according to a majority of them, producers of certain traditional varieties of absinthe could no longer use the term 'absinthe' or would be forced to change their recipes. this iconic and controversial drink, dubbed the "green fairy", is said to have fueled the creativity of artists in the early 20th century, when it was banned in many countries. at present, there is no clear definition of this alcohol in european legislation. however, not all traditional absinthe recipes in the union require a minimum level of anethole. producers say that traditional practices vary according to regional availability of herbs and plants, as well as consumer tastes, for example in sugar. we voted against the definition and put an end to the control procedure which was in force. if we want to introduce a definition of absinthe into european law, the european commission should present a new proposal.
in writing. - today it is popular to advocate the scrapping of the european agricultural policy. that's not our vision. safe, sufficient and sustainable food is and remains crucial. the agricultural sector has a great potential for innovation and, if we focus on exports, can become a booming business. i therefore want to set a precedent for a vigorous and modern agricultural policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we are of course in favour of sustainability, but we must also leave room for agriculture in densely populated areas such as flanders.
in writing. - agriculture faces major challenges and to meet them it is useful to define the framework for the future common agricultural policy (cap). in addition to the proposal on direct payments, the package for the future of the cap includes three other proposals, which i also welcome, because all three are intended to lead to a more sustainable, more transparent, less administrative and more efficient agriculture. the aim of direct payments must be to achieve a more targeted and more equitable distribution of payments. agricultural financing is a key element of the eu budget and thus of the mff negotiations. the aim is to achieve profitable food production, sustainable management of natural resources and climate protection measures. they are particularly important today, with the numerous food scandals, and they promote local food production and quality improvement. i am particularly pleased that young farmers are to be given more support and that a special scheme is foreseen for small farmers.
in writing. the time for reform has not yet come for the common agricultural policy. the pressure cooker of the experts on the committee on agriculture has worked well, to the detriment of medium and small farms. the ceiling for direct aid is fixed, but it is set at eur 300 000. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers' incomes are not affected by the increase in the number of farmers. applied to the size of belgium, this "reform" is even more questionable: 46 farms, or 0.01% of the total, receive more than €300,000 of european subsidies annually. and of course, there is an exception for agricultural cooperatives. that is why i was one of the 113 members who supported a cap of €100,000 per farm to make the system more equitable. this would have enabled more than 10 500 farms in belgium, for example, to benefit from european aid. the proposal to give a supplementary premium for the first hectares was also not supported. the policy of "small steps" is to be content with, the consideration of returns on scale and the employment of employees in the holding. this is not good news for most farmers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this opening. in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in eu agricultural and rural areas, the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) sets the following specific objectives: sustainable food production; sustainable management of natural resources with climate action; balanced territorial development to maintain the two pillars of the cap, namely pillar i or the direct payment regulation, covering direct payments and market-related measures providing support for farmers' annual income, with a safety net in the event of market instability, and pillar ii or the rural development regulation, covering rural development in regions where member states draw up multiannual programmes and participate in their financing.
in writing. - the european parliament has today, thanks to the lisbon treaty, been able to play a more direct role than ever before in shaping the european agricultural policy of the future. we have chosen a sensible policy, one which has the ambition of reconciling important points of concern. the concern to ensure a secure and secure food supply for europeans, the will to work towards sustainable agriculture and a sustainable rural policy, and the concern to ensure the viability of the agricultural sector. parliament has updated the european commission's proposals in important respects, precisely in order to achieve a better balance between these objectives. parliament now has a strong negotiating mandate and must continue to ensure this balance in the negotiations. i would like to draw particular attention to the objective of not wasting resources. unused direct support resources should be reused in a sustainable rural policy. in these difficult times europe must not abandon its farmers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text which gives our delegation a clear negotiating mandate for the forthcoming trilogue discussions. one of our main priorities was to highlight the specificities of the agricultural activity and the food chain and to allow the agricultural sector to derogate, within predefined limits, from the normal rules of competition in order to allow farmers to exercise greater market power. in particular, it gives producer organisations greater freedom of action than that provided for in the commission text, with the aim of strengthening the position of producers vis-à-vis other actors in the food chain. this should improve their yields, which are being undermined by the strength of the retail sector.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation) is an integral part of the overall reform package of the common agricultural policy (cap). in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu's agricultural and rural areas, the cap reform sets the following specific objectives: sustainable food production; sustainable management of natural resources with climate action; balanced territorial development.
in writing. i welcome the negotiating framework voted by the ep on support for rural development. i would like to stress in particular the new measures that member states can support, such as the transfer of knowledge and good practice, advisory services, the development of farms and their economic activities and support for the renewal of rural villages. it is also necessary to ensure that the main beneficiaries of such aid are farmers, to support agritourism and to emphasize the positive role of producer groups.
in writing. this is the culmination of long and difficult negotiations with considerable stakes. we have fought to try to achieve a cap that is fairer, simpler, more sustainable and more in line with the realities on the ground. this vote will shape the future of agriculture and the future of european food security. we have struck a balance between food security and increased environmental protection, so that the new eu agricultural policy can deliver even more public goods to european citizens. this policy will also be less bureaucratic and more equitable for farmers, in particular by giving them the means to cope with crises. this will be our position in the negotiations with the member states on the final form of the cap. i am, however, bitterly sorry that the ceiling for aid is set at 300 000 for example, which is two farmers in belgium. we had supported 100,000 and advocated 200,000, a vote short by two votes... each one his conscience. parliament has clearly missed an opportunity but there is hope in the tripartite.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this negotiating framework which takes into account the need to make farmers' lives easier by simplifying administrative procedures and reducing the burden on farmers. the aim is therefore to support agricultural enterprises by providing them with more comprehensive assistance, including marketing and innovation aspects, and by enabling them to know and use the various instruments needed to strengthen their competitiveness. the financing of the common agricultural policy requires synergy with the management and control function of that policy, throughout a process that allows the setting of objectives and the monitoring of progress towards achieving them, through concrete instruments that are easily understandable and exploitable by farmers and that are of clear interest to european citizens and consumers. i am pleased that the negotiating framework voted in plenary takes these aspects into account.
in writing. this is the culmination of long and difficult negotiations with considerable stakes. we have fought to try to achieve a cap that is fairer, simpler, more sustainable and more in line with the realities on the ground. this vote will shape the future of agriculture and the future of european food security. we have struck a balance between food security and increased environmental protection, so that the new eu agricultural policy can deliver even more public goods to european citizens. this policy will also be less bureaucratic and more equitable for farmers, in particular by giving them the means to cope with crises. this will be our position in the negotiations with the member states on the final form of the cap. i am, however, bitterly sorry that the ceiling for aid is set at 300 000 for example, which is two farmers in belgium. we had supported 100,000 and advocated 200,000, a vote short by two votes... each one his conscience. parliament has missed an opportunity but there is hope in the tripartite.
in writing. by voting for this report, the european parliament is sending a strong signal that it is putting renewable energy and energy efficiency at the heart of the strategy for transitioning to a decarbonised system by 2050. the european parliament thus supports the conclusion that the rise of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency are the 'perfect solutions' to achieving a low-carbon energy europe. we also invited the commission to explore a scenario combining a high level of renewables and energy savings, and called for a post-2020 strategy compatible with the eu's 2050 decarbonisation agenda. this requires benchmarks and targets for carbon emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency in order to establish an ambitious and stable legal and regulatory framework. we're almost there!
in writing. today, and for some time now, energy has been the focus of all the concerns. indeed, given that security of supply is one of the pillars of the eu's energy policy and that it is in the interest of all member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports, it is imperative to set an agenda for the coming decades and to stick to it. its different objectives (such as regional energy specialisation such as solar in the south and wind in the north), its long-term strategy based on renewable energy, its innovative ideas and its social dimension make this roadmap for energy to 2050 a coherent and promising action plan. i was convinced by his presentation and voted in favour of it.
in writing. − this report deals with the european parliament’s position regarding the commission communication on future eu energy policy up to 2050. it backs the commission’s finding that res (renewable energy sources) and ee (energy efficiency) are ‘no regret’ options. it also notes that since massive investments are required even under a ‘business as usual’ scenario, it is preferable to use them to modernise and develop our energy system towards a decarbonised future. our shadow rapporteur calls for a clear statement from the european parliament indicating that we want to see clear support for a high renewable and energy efficiency scenario. moreover, unacceptable sections of the report should be removed, such as the call for the commission to actively promote nuclear energy and discussion of scenarios for increased dependence on nuclear energy and gas.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report in which parliament calls for the full implementation of the recommendations of the post-fukushima stress test exercise. in this resolution, parliament called for the urgent implementation of all safety improvements recommended following the nuclear stress tests carried out between spring 2011 and summer 2012 in the light of the accident at fukushima daiichi (japan) in march 2011, the results of which were published in october. these stress tests demonstrate that virtually all nuclear power plants need to implement site-specific safety improvements. moreover, i believe that all the costs of the improvements should be borne by the nuclear operators alone and not by the taxpayers ...!
in writing. − nuclear power plants in the eu should be subject to regular risk and safety assessments. accidents at nuclear power stations are a huge threat not only to the member state concerned but also to neighbouring countries. this is all the more so because of the tendency to build nuclear power stations in border regions. i very much welcome this resolution, which strengthens crossborder cooperation in this area. as early as 2011, i had already drawn attention to the importance of coordinating emergency plans between neighbouring countries, and therefore i am very pleased that it is now called for, among other things, to study external emergency and prevention measures, especially for cross-border areas in the eu, by 2013 and to publish the results by the end of 2014. it also recommends that the competent authorities cooperate more closely across borders and that there should be a cross-border exchange of experts and best practice. crossborder cooperation and coordination in this area are essential. i therefore particularly welcome the fact that people living within 50 km of a nuclear power plant should be taken into account and that, where a majority of the residents in the neighbouring country are concerned, the relevant national authorities of that neighbouring country should be involved in all national and regional decisions relating to the nuclear power plant.
in writing. there is no justification for acts of hatred and rejection of another because of his race, origin or religion. i didn't say anything. nor is it the crisis and austerity, which have created so many precarious and tragic situations in europe and the world. the red line has already been crossed in greece, where citizens are attacked because of the colour of their skin. the racist murder of a young pakistani man in athens on 16 january is a proof of this. what about hungary, where the ruling party, victor orban's fidescz, is silent when jobbik proposes to expose hungarian "citizen leaders" of the jewish faith. more closely, i find disastrous the decision of the centre for equal opportunities to call the openly anti-semitic poster of the ps in molenbeek a "lack of political culture". a guilty trivialization which is in total contradiction with the spirit of the resolution we have just voted. governments must take responsibility and punish these intolerable acts. the future of democratic europe depends on it.
in writing. it is clear that i voted for this report because racism is a real scourge and, as a european representative in an assembly of 27 states, it is my duty to uphold the values of tolerance and altruism. in a world where globalization is gaining momentum and people are moving more easily, fear of others and racism remain real scourges. the number of racist attacks remains stable, but increases in violence, with 51 per cent of personal attacks in 2007. but what is racism? after a brief definition, here are some ways to combat racism and some tips for victims.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report, which comes at the same time as the world health organisation (who) is publishing a comprehensive scientific assessment of the endocrine disruptors issue. the report confirms that many endocrine disorders and diseases are on the rise, including breast and prostate cancers, infertility and reproductive problems (lower sperm quality in men, early puberty in girls), diabetes and obesity, and neurological diseases (attention deficit disorder, parkinson's disease). i have been trying to sound the alarm for over 15 years, so i can only congratulate the european parliament and the who for finally looking at this health time bomb of endocrine disruptors. i also had the opportunity to express my total disagreement with the attempts by some to introduce the 'activity' criterion as the threshold for the definition of endocrine disruptors, because this approach would unduly limit the definition of disruptors and would not be in line with the classification of carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants, which is based on solid evidence! let us keep as vigilant as possible on this vital issue!
in writing. in the last twenty years, we have seen an increase in human diseases and hormonal disorders. since our genes could not change in such a short time, external factors, such as lifestyle, diet, medication, chemicals, and so forth, are the cause. since health protection is a key element of european union policy, it is imperative that the precautionary principle is fully applied. endocrine disruptors play an important role in the worrying trend observed and, due to their ubiquity, it is impossible for the population to protect itself against them. it is more than necessary to do everything possible to increase the protection of public health and especially that of children, young people and women, who are considered to be the most vulnerable groups. this resolution is a step in the right direction by revising all relevant legislation to include, in particular, clauses on chemical substances specifically applicable to textile products, which are often in contact with children.
in writing. endocrine disruptors, chemicals that are particularly common in our daily lives, were the main neglected substances in the reach regulation on chemicals adopted in 2006. this is a regrettable omission, as more and more scientific voices are speaking out against the dangers of these substances, which are associated with genital malformations and the high rate of hormone-dependent cancers, such as prostate and breast cancers, early puberty in girls, and so on. in turn, we are exposed to them through our diet, our breathing, and our skin, since they are found mainly in cosmetics (parabens), plastics (bisphenol a and phthalates), and detergents (alkylphenols). and apart from the ban on bisphenol a in baby bottles and certain phthalates in toys, endocrine disruptors continue to circulate freely. for all these reasons, and also to send a clear message to the commission which is currently working on a definition of the ptbs, this afternoon's vote on the westlund report is important. it stresses in particular the urgency of introducing toxicity tests which take account of particularly vulnerable periods of development such as pregnancy.
in writing. i support this report for several reasons. first, precautionary measures to protect human health should be implemented where there is a reasonable likelihood of adverse effects from endocrine disruptors. the criteria used to define endocrine disruption should be based on comprehensive hazard assessments, supported by the latest scientific developments and taking into account potential combinations and long-term effects. from this point of view, the hazard assessment should form the basis for risk assessment and risk management measures. the commission is then invited to carry out a systematic review of all relevant legislation and, if necessary, to amend existing legislation or to submit new legislative proposals by june 2015 to reduce it to endocrine disrupting chemicals. endocrine disruptors should be considered as 'substances without threshold effect' unless the producers provide scientific evidence of the presence of a threshold below which no harmful effect occurs. the commission is also asked to develop methodologies to minimise animal testing.
in writing. the european union is at a pivotal moment in its employment policy. indeed, for the first time in decades, its working-age population is declining. this is a two-fold phenomenon: in the long term, an imbalance in pension systems, and in the short term, a shortage of labour. on the latter point, skilled immigration seems to be an important approach. however, for too long member states have let immigration take place without a clear programme. it is therefore imperative that the integration of european citizens from other member states and third-country nationals with immigrant backgrounds becomes the main social issue of our time. the resolution provides for several measures to this end, such as better cooperation with third countries, language training, resettlement for newcomers and the creation of a uniform and transparent system at eu level, which i believe are essential in a globalised world.
in writing. i support this report by stressing the need to catch up on integration and to control immigration. to this end, the commission's programmes must be linked and better communicated. the commission and the member states, together with cities and regions, need to introduce a common european system for the definition of labour needs in order to have a better overview of economic immigration and to manage it better. in addition, the commission should develop an international skills framework including standardised skills profiles to facilitate the recruitment of and comparison between jobseeking migrants.
in writing. today, despite being banned in europe, asbestos still poses a serious danger to public health. it is no longer used, but it is still found in many ships, trains, buildings, underground tunnels, pipes, and so forth. many workers are regularly exposed to it in the course of their work, particularly in the maintenance, construction and decontamination sectors. public health is one of the eu's top priorities, so we must do everything we can to minimise the risks of this substance and take the appropriate measures to eliminate the remaining asbestos altogether. this resolution is going in the right direction. it includes, among others, the implementation of models to detect and control asbestos, the development of minimum qualifications for engineers and architects, the development of asbestos-removal programmes, the recognition of asbestos-related diseases, the support of a european network of asbestos victims and a strategy for a global ban on asbestos.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report produced at the instigation of the s&d group and deals with a subject which we have considered a priority for many years. it was passed in committee by an overwhelming majority. the process was very positive and compromises were reached on all major issues: calls for the elimination of asbestos from all public buildings and buildings with regular public access by 2028; the establishment of a union model for the detection and registration of asbestos and a roadmap for its disposal; recognition of the dangers of white or chrysotile asbestos; proposals on the qualifications and training required for working with asbestos and call for a directive on the subject; calls for the identification of asbestos-related diseases; calls on the union to work towards a worldwide ban on asbestos
in writing. by adopting this own-initiative report, parliament asks the european commission to make a legislative proposal creating a european statute for mutual societies. the status of the european health insurance scheme, which has been under discussion for many years, would recognise the weight of the mutual societies at european level, which employ more than 350 000 people and provide care for nearly 160 million europeans. mutual societies account for 25% of the insurance market and 70% of the total number of insurance companies. this european status, which would put them on an equal footing with other forms of undertaking in the union, would thus improve the legal certainty of mutual societies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the commission to come forward swiftly with one or more proposals on the functioning of the union, allowing mutual societies to operate at european and cross-border level - the diversity of enterprises should be clearly established in the treaty on the functioning of the european union - and proposes to include mutual societies in article 54. strategies and measures need to be combined to create a level playing field for mutuals, including through a european status, which equally offers them the possibility to add a european dimension to their organisation and activities and provides them with the appropriate legal instruments to facilitate their cross-border and transnational activities. in this context, mutual societies could operate throughout the union according to their specific governance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i'm very worried. general abdul fatah khalil el-sissi warned: "political conflict is pushing the state to the brink of collapse". he was reacting to the growing unrest across the country that gives the impression that president morsi is no longer in control of the situation and is fighting only to hold on to a tottering power. according to zvi mazel, former israeli ambassador to egypt and geopolitical expert in the region: "there is no longer any parliamentary opposition in egypt. the highly controversial constitution, recently adopted by referendum, gives the president full powers in the executive branch; he appoints the prime minister, the judges of the supreme court and the heads of all state institutions". egyptians regained freedom of speech in the 2011 revolution and they do not want a regression in this area. they find that the causes of the revolution have not been resolved: economic misery, the inconsistency of the islamists in power and the curtailment of fundamental freedoms.
in writing. in february 2013, the democratic people's republic of korea conducted nuclear weapons tests. these weapons pose a real threat to the regional and international community. in addition, there are many concerns about the respect for human rights and the humanitarian situation. the dprk has repeatedly violated the rights of its citizens with impunity. this situation cannot continue. it is vital that we do what is necessary to achieve a nuclear-free north korea once and for all. it is also necessary to convince the state to abandon the death penalty, to support freedom of religion and association, to organise free and fair elections, to ensure access to food and humanitarian assistance for citizens in need, to stop arbitrary imprisonment, etc. in short, every effort must be made to ensure that human rights are respected and that nuclear weapons are forgotten.
in writing. north korea has been out of line for too long! north korean leader kim jong-un on tuesday designated south korea's baengnyeong island, near the maritime border between the south and north, as the first target in case of conflict. so now north korean official media reports that kim jong-un has targeted his military. "once the order is given, you will have to break the backs of the insane enemies, cut their throats and show them clearly what a real war is", he is reported to have said. the announcement made by the north korean press has so far not caused any real panic on the targeted island. an official from the affected island, kim young-gu, said that shelters for civilians were ready to receive the population and that all villages were on alert. "there is not really a mass exodus of a panicked population to the mainland, but to be quite frank, we are a little scared", he said.
in writing. i am fully aware that the eu-china strategic partnership is of considerable importance for the eu-china relations and that this relationship is crucial to responding to global concerns such as international and regional security, economic crisis, global financial and market regulation, energy security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, climate change, economic and social development of a market economy, the promotion of democracy and human rights and the fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, as well as to creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china. however, partnership agreements cannot be a pretext for turning a blind eye to actions that violate human rights or the rules of dumping. the european union must be uncompromising in this respect; it's about his credibility.
in writing. in recent years, more and more football matches have been rigged. many eu member states are affected by this problem, and all sports can be affected. not only do these rigging practices undermine the integrity of sports, but they also pose a real threat to all involved. these evil activities are directly linked to organized crime. i voted in favour of this resolution on match-fixing and corruption in sport because it contains various measures which i hope will help to put an end to it. the resolution aims, among other things, to identify and combat illegal sports betting activities, develop comprehensive prevention and education programmes from an early age, promote good governance of sports organisations, encourage better coordination between member states and between the eu and third countries, promote a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption, etc.
in writing. as you may recall, the only rival who dared to challenge joseph blatter for the post of fifa president last june lost his position, accused of corruption! he wanted to be the head of fifa to fight corruption better and in the end he was the one who was fired for corruption. this deleterious climate has left deep traces. the new blatter was supposed to provide answers. but it's not. the key measure that emerged from the 24 member meeting was the forthcoming establishment of a good governance committee. the case in question is certainly new. its mere creation to prevent corruption is itself an acknowledgement of the existence of the "affairs" that joseph blatter has long denied. but we are far from the "revolution" that we expected. will it be enough for fifa to give the anti-corruption pledges by opening this very old case and ignoring more recent ones? including the awarding of the 2022 world cup in qatar? the critics don't think so, and neither do i.
in writing. after rising almost fivefold in two years to over $2 a pound in the spring of 2011, world cotton prices have collapsed again to 75 cents a pound as of january 4, 2013. this sharp decline is again putting at risk the cotton sector in west and central africa, where white gold is the main export crop, the lifeblood of their economies and development efforts. between the early 1980s and the late 2000s, the continuous fall in prices caused a sharp decline in production in the acp countries, with farmers gradually turning away from this less and less lucrative crop. then, in early 2010, the trend reversed abruptly and the prices rose sharply. mainly linked to demand from the chinese manufacturing sector and to special weather conditions, this price increase was truly staggering, reaching the highest levels not seen since the civil war. the volatility of the markets is a scourge that must be firmly fought.
author. - mr president, today the situation of palestinian prisoners has become a matter of concern, both for international ngos such as amnesty international, human rights watch and fidh, but also for palestinian and israeli ngos, who are alerting us to the issue. what's at stake? first, the incredible number of these prisoners - almost 5,000 today - but know that one out of every two palestinian men will spend time in israeli prisons and 20% of the population. secondly, the conditions of detention and, in particular, the abuse of administrative detention, which should in principle last only six months but which can be extended indefinitely in the absence of charges: this is clearly an abuse of this practice. secondly, the general conditions which lead to hunger strikes by a large number of palestinian prisoners, who are now putting their lives in danger, as we have seen in the darkest days of the ira in the past. finally, today, what brings us to the main event is the strange, suspicious death of arafat jaradat. based on a biopsy, the israelis conclude that he was resuscitated rather abruptly, that his ribs were broken and that he was injured as a result. on the palestinian side, that would be torture. proven torture has been going on since 1967. 71 people were listed as having died as a result of torture in israeli prisons. today, in israel, in this democratic country, the supreme court has just legalized the use of force that is supposedly controlled force under medical supervision but that leads to a practice, in fact, of torture, even though that country signed and ratified the convention against torture in 2001. for all these reasons, mr president, ban ki-moon, and i quote him, considers that 'the situation of prisoners in administrative detention without charge is of particular concern' and adds that 'these prisoners should be charged and brought to justice'. i agree with you, mrs korhola, that they must be released with legal guarantees in line with international standards, or else they must be released quickly. we join mr ban ki-moon in calling for an impartial investigation into the death of arafat jaradat and we call for a fact-finding mission from the european parliament, as we have done in other cases for other political prisoners in other countries.
author. − mr president, the death of arafat jaradat in an israeli prison cell has once again drawn our attention to the situation of palestinian prisoners. as has been said, almost 4 900 prisoners, of whom 195 are children under 18 years of age, are currently detained in cells, mostly situated in israeli territory. previous speakers have said that, since the beginning of the occupation in 1967, 750 000 palestinians have been taken into israeli custody: that is one in every four palestinians. it is difficult to conceive what the effects of this are on the deep psychology and the mental state of the entire population. what we particularly want to protest against is the practice of administrative detention, allowing military courts to order the detention of someone for six-month periods, which can be prolonged indefinitely without the prisoner or his or her lawyers having access to the file or the charges. so prisoners can be detained without charge. i very much welcome what the first speaker said: that we should demand of the israeli authorities that all these prisoners be tried according to international and national standards.
in writing. emissions trading is an important element of climate policy and that is why i support the european commission's 'backloading' proposal. the success of the instrument is currently in danger of being completely undermined by the extremely low carbon price resulting from an excess of emission allowances on the market and the slowdown in industrial activity due to the economic crisis. the consequence of a low carbon price is that incentives for energy efficiency and renewable energy production are lost. the stabilization of the price should enable us to correct some of the design errors in the emissions trading system in cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, because that is what is most urgently needed. but if we do not pause now and put some of the allowances on the market later so that the carbon price has some room to recover, the whole system will collapse before we can begin to adjust it.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank parliament and its rapporteur for its very good cooperation on this file. i think that the way we have progressed here is very good. emissions from international aircraft represent a rapidly growing contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions. yet, after nearly two decades of negotiations, there has been no internationally-agreed principle on who has the responsibility – and who has the authority – to control emissions from international flights. this is a problem, not only because of the emissions themselves, but also – as mr liese has just stated – for reasons of fairness. how can we explain to our citizens that we are taking measures to reduce emissions from their use of cars, transport or the heating of their house, farms or whatever it is, if at the same time we do nothing about the very significant emissions every passenger causes when taking an intercontinental flight? it simply does not make sense. that is why, years ago, the european union decided to include aviation in our emissions trading system. we did so after the un’s aviation body, icao, had given their endorsement after they could not themselves agree to move on. if you wanted to move on nationally or regionally, it should be through some kind of emissions trading scheme. that was one of the options that they actually pointed to. when they realised that the eu was actually serious about acting – when we started to include emissions in our scheme – many third countries seemed to have second thoughts about this idea. but the fact is that the european union has always made it clear that a global approach to addressing the fast-growing emissions from international aviation is our preferred option. nobody has worked harder actually to achieve that than we have in the european union. that is why, based on the encouraging results of the icao council meeting of 9 november 2012 and the constructive engagement of our international partners in the relevant discussions, the commission proposed that the eu ‘stop the clock’ by temporarily derogating from the eu ets compliance obligations for international flights operated in 2012 to and from europe. this significant gesture by the eu would create a unique window of opportunity for the icao process. many states have called for action to be taken at international level through icao and argued that the ets was an obstacle in this respect. so now we can make it abundantly clear to everybody that this is not the case and show that it is now up to our partners to work with us and to demonstrate a genuine commitment to, and an engagement in, finding solutions. the icao assembly in september 2013 will need to take the international efforts to the next level in order to demonstrate that the icao’s member states are ready to take appropriate measures in the area of international aviation. in 2010 the icao assembly agreed to an aspirational goal of carbon neutral growth by 2020. the industry (iata) has adopted this goal and set itself a target of 50% emission reductions from 2005 levels by 2050. however, all trajectories show that, without market-based measures, these targets will be missed. in fact, a business-as-usual scenario suggests an increase of 400% by 2050. so the 2013 icao assembly will need to agree on an immediately-applicable and meaningful framework that guides the design of national and regional market-based mechanisms, a realistic timetable for a global market-based mechanism, and an ambitious set of technological and operational measures. the commission will report back to parliament and the council on the progress achieved at the icao assembly. if clear and sufficient progress is made there, the commission will propose further legislative action with a view to adapting the eu ets in line with a successful icao outcome. however, if this is not the case, the eu ets will again apply to external flights. the swift adoption of the ‘stopping-the-clock’ decision, discussed by parliament today, would ensure legal certainty for national authorities and aircraft operators with regard to compliance for 2012 emissions. let me emphasise that all operators – whether registered inside or outside the eu – will have to comply for their intra-european flights. these obligations will be strictly enforced. the principle of non-discrimination based on the nationality of operators has always been, and remains, a fundamental part of the eu’s position. in relation to the amendment proposed at this plenary session, let me stress the following: any change to the ‘stopping-the-clock’ decision at this late stage would cause major difficulties by forcing a second reading. in the absence of a first-reading agreement, the stopping of the clock would not be adopted in time and the legal situation regarding the application of the ets to external flights would remain unclear for months. this basically serves nobody’s interests. it would only create uncertainty and confusion for airlines and would also risk jeopardising the chances of a successful outcome of the icao negotiations by prompting critical third countries to speculate about our commitment to this derogation. i am convinced that the strong and united position of parliament, the council and the commission will send a strong signal to the icao in order to maximise the outcome of the icao assembly in 2013. i very much trust that we will be able to do this in a first-reading agreement. we need the signal now, when we are negotiating in the high-level group.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already done so. i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his very good cooperation. we wanted quick answers to the questions instead of procedural questions. for us in the committee on transport, emissions trading, particularly in the aviation sector, has always been an international issue. it was therefore sensible to take the opportunity now to find a solution at icao level. we have also made a clear statement. one, the suspension for a year. secondly, we want to evaluate the results with you, not to make a one-sided evaluation of the results. thirdly, we want to avoid market-distorting measures, which may have already been mentioned, when extending the deadline. i would like to say, finally, that we have taken our advice, you have made promises, you have made certain suggestions. we need legal certainty for switzerland. we are not concerned with the principle of whether switzerland should be involved or not. we are concerned with the question of the need for legal certainty. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is your responsibility, commissioner. we have already pointed this out.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i do not know whether there will still be many people here in europe who will say that europe is still doing nothing to regulate finance, and i do not have to say this to michel barnier. i do not know how many texts we have adopted before, but this is probably one of the most important of this parliament. indeed, it is a major breakthrough that tackles the heart of the problem: banks, and in particular those systemic institutions that are considered too big to fail. we are clearly now scoring points against the idea that in the end it is finance that dictates the conduct of democracy and not the other way around. we have talked about higher capital requirements, about the differentiation we are going to make between the systemic institutions and the others, about the introduction, for the first time, of liquidity rules, and finally, indeed, about those two somewhat extraordinary or off-topic points which are, on the one hand, remuneration and, on the other hand, transparency. how many times have i heard that remuneration is not the problem, when we know very well that it is at the heart - the first reason in fact - of excessive risk-taking by banks? we are improving the crd 3 legislation by imposing ratios between variable and fixed remuneration which i think will have the effect of reducing total remuneration amounts. the most revolutionary of these is, of course, the country-by-country reporting. it has already been mentioned several times in this debate. no, opacity will no longer be the rule in the functioning of finance. after all, a competitive market economy requires of course transparency, equal information from all actors and, as i have often said in this debate, i sometimes felt a bit like the last liberal in the room preaching free and undistorted competition and total transparency. how is it that we have been able to obtain satisfaction in these two areas which we consider essential? well, because we have been able to take the opposition of the banks - echoed by too many finance ministers, who have behaved in this matter like the trade union defending the advantages acquired by the banks - in a pincer movement between the political will expressed by this parliament, unanimously, and a public opinion rightly upset against the opacity and against excessive remuneration. when one of the two branches of the pincers is missing, we miss the target. the rules on liquidity are not far enough. the capital will continue to be calculated tomorrow on the basis of weighted assets, which are known to be calculated by banks to minimise their capital requirements. what we need is a binding leverage rule, which does not yet exist. i know that the commission is thinking about it, but we are not there yet. i would like to address some of the finance ministers who have played the role of reactionary or conservative forces here. i would like to say in particular to pierre moscovici that, no, france's interest is not the same as that of bnp paribas or société générale, or even crédit agricole. i would like to say to wolfgang schäuble that no, germany's interest is not the same as that of deutsche bank or commerzbank. the general interest must prevail and i think this text does that. i would like to thank three people in particular for their work on this issue. the first is the british government. it may seem strange after the fight we had on the bonus issue, but i must say that if there is a government in europe which, in my opinion, has taken stock of the danger that systemic banks pose to the economy and the balance of our societies, it is the british government and, in many cases, this government has been at parliament's side in the negotiation of this text in order to defend an ambitious approach. i would like to thank michel barnier, who is the driving force behind the commission's efforts to achieve sustainable financial regulation. this is not the first or last text that the commissioner will present to us. i think we have dealt, and we are dealing, with a commissioner for whom laissez-faire, laissez-passer, is definitely a thing of the past. i know he was never part of your universe, but it's good to have someone like you as commissioner of the internal market. finally, i would also like to thank othmar karas, who was able to rise above the logic of one party and really bring the general interest and the general vision of the european parliament through the negotiations. othmar, through our negotiations i have met a statesman and a friend. thank you!
i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and the whole negotiating team for the work they have done and the result achieved. this package of legislation is an important piece of the puzzle that aims to make our banking system safer and prevent a repeat of the crisis. i would like to mention a few points in the capping of bonuses, which should lead to a fairer remuneration model aimed at the long-term stability of banks and curbing unnecessary risk-taking. secondly, the improved and higher capital requirements, particularly for systemic banks, should ensure that banks have a buffer in times of crisis. and thirdly, the obligation for banks to report on the profits made, the amount of tax paid, etc., by country should contribute to greater transparency and will help us in the debate on the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, which has fortunately also been accelerated today. the impact and success of these measures will of course depend on a number of things. the commissioner, i am thinking, of course, first of all, of the development of a strong supervision at european level which can enforce the rules of the game in a credible way. secondly - and we expect your proposals on this very shortly - the development of a resolution fund fund funded by the banking sector itself, so that banks can insure themselves in the event of serious difficulties. thirdly, adequate regulation for the shadow banking sector. finally, as has been said by other speakers, a change of mentality and a different culture in the banking sector is also needed if the crisis is not to be repeated.
the crisis is not over, confidence is not restored and the urgency remains high. but fortunately, there is a lot of hard work and progress being made, and we are showing that today with the dossier that is now on the table. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr karas, on this, but also the commission on the initiatives taken and the irish presidency of the council which is doing everything it can to make progress in the council too. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial institutions are able to comply with the requirements of the treaty, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we will thus strengthen financial stability and give the economy more opportunities. the savings and taxpayers will eventually be drawn in too. but strict rules are one thing, enforcing them is another. so we need strict supervision too. that dossier has been completed here in the european parliament. we're standing by. i hope that we can also expect to complete everything with the council and the european central bank in a matter of weeks. i would therefore like to add my voice to the question put by mrs wortmann, the president, to both the council and the commission: how are we to interpret dublin and what is the realistic timing of the work on resolution and deposit guarantee that is still on the table? hopefully, everything will be settled before the end of the session.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want first of all to associate myself, and also my group, with what has been said by the prime minister and by mr barroso on the attack in boston. thank you also, prime minister, for your speech. i know that you are an expert in fighting euroscepticism, because you have to deal with the true finns and you know how to tackle them. but let us be honest: this may be a good opportunity to recognise that this debate with you is no longer a finnish problem alone, and not even a traditional british phenomenon, this euroscepticism that we see rising. two days ago, as we all know, a new political party was established in germany – the alternative für deutschland, which is a eurosceptic party, a party who want germany out of the euro. in my opinion, what they are calling for is not an alternative for germany. i think there is a better name for it: they are in fact proposing suicide for germany. in any case, i think it what they are proposing is stupidity, be it by splitting the euro in two circles – a north one or a south one – or by returning to the old national currencies. in any case, what they are proposing is a breakup of the euro. well, colleagues – and i think this is a good moment to underline this – if there is one country which should fear such a scenario and one country in europe which would suffer from such a scenario, i think it is germany. what the alternative for germany is in fact putting forward means, in my opinion, a tragedy not only for europe but also for germany: it is the breakdown of the german export machine, and it could be the end of the german miracle instead of something else. i am not just saying that, mr president. i am saying it because there is proof of this. i have here the study produced by ing – which is the second largest bank in holland – by their branch in london, so it has been produced in london – in the city of london. where can you do such an analysis better than there? and what the independent analysis, produced in the city of london, shows is that the breakup of the euro would create an economic meltdown in europe, and that the first victim of that would be germany, naturally. what are the figures in that study? my suggestion is that you make 18 million copies of it within the european parliament and send it to every german citizen. you can do it personally.
on behalf of the alde group. – well, the consequences are very clear. in that study produced in the city of london they are saying that the currencies of the main european markets for german industry will on average be devalued by 20%, killing all german exports to these markets. their second point or conclusion is that a new german currency, a deutschmark, would immediately slump to parity with the dollar, immediately losing 20% of its value and making imports – and certainly energy imports – over-expensive. and then the last conclusion – produced in the city of london by ing – is that the breakup of the euro would result in german gdp shrinking by nearly 10% in just two years. i repeat: what we saw two days ago is not an alternative for germany. it is suicide for germany, a nightmare for europe, and not only for europe but also for the uk because, according to this study, one of the big victims would be the uk, as they would lose 5% of their gdp immediately if there were to be a breakup of the euro. so, dear colleagues and prime minister, we do not need an alternative for germany. what we need is an alternative for europe. that is what we need. and that means political union, a real european government and a european treasury. i was very pleased with what joseph daul said when he spoke about the european bond market. we need banking union and we need a european resolution fund. i shall conclude, mr president. we are at a crossroads – i think you can agree with that. are we to become the un of europe – a loose confederation of nation states – or do we take the leap forward to a us of europe? i know what my choice is and i hope it is also your choice in the future.
in writing. the lack of leadership in the construction of europe is the originality of its construction but also its weakness in times of high tensions. this lack of leadership is perhaps the reason for the many questions about the future of europe. the challenge today is undeniably to find joint solutions to the banking and financial crisis by minimising the social costs, to produce new virtuous centripete dynamics. but, however difficult the task, the great challenge for europe is to continue its unification so as not to be engulfed by the tectonics of emerging plates. at the risk of being shocked, the great european challenge is not to solve the present crisis, the great european challenge is to be able to cope with this new world situation and, in direct connection with this new situation, in particular to cope with the energy challenges. this crisis is a great opportunity to understand the fragility of our states and to understand that the european project is the answer to our problems and not the cause of our problems. the european union must be able to play its part in the world of economic and monetary union, provided, of course, that the european political class plays the right part, that of collective action and not that of preserving national sovereignty.
in writing. enisa - the european agency for network and information security, the 'agency' - was established in march 2004. in september 2010, the commission put forward two proposals, the first to extend the mandate of the agency for 18 months, while the second was a more technical proposal to modernise and rationalise the agency. with the unanimous support of parliament, it was decided to approve the extension of the mandate of the agency first to ensure its immediate future and to give parliament more time to engage in a thorough debate and study on the longer term future of the agency. this regulation, which provides for the formal replacement of the agency established by the 2004 regulation by another agency, provides a good opportunity to re-examine the question of the seat. moreover, parliament, as a co-legislator, should clearly exercise this responsibility by also having a role in the choice of the seat of the bodies it agrees to set up, instead of leaving the question to the member states alone without public debate. your rapporteur therefore recommends that the seat of the agency be in brussels.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) introduced a new hierarchy of standards, composed of three levels (legislative acts, delegated acts, implementing acts). it is very important to find a solution that is based on a sound legal basis and protects the rights of parliament as set out in the tfeu. i am in favour of the commission's proposal as a whole, in that it suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt the technical specifications and conditions of use of noise deterrent devices and implementing acts for the detailed rules on the procedure and format of the reports which member states are required to draw up. however, i suggest that some amendments be made to the commission's proposal in order to define more strictly the circumstances in which the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts.
in writing. fisheries relations between the european union and the republic of mauritius began in 1989. they were not disrupted until 2007, but when the protocol expired, the parties could not agree on the terms of its renewal. the ex ante assessment of the current conditions of the fisheries sector in mauritius with a view to a new partnership agreement and protocol, prepared with the support of the commission, indicates that 'the impact assessment does not identify any likely negative economic, social or environmental impacts'. the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol are balanced and serve the interests of both parties, and it is therefore recommended that the european parliament approve the conclusion of the agreement and the protocol. parliament must be informed immediately and fully at all stages of the procedures relating to the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol, or their renewal, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft legislative resolution.
in writing. the alleged activities for which the public prosecutor intends to carry out further investigations against hans-peter martin are clearly neither opinions nor votes expressed by this member in the exercise of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. the request for waiver of immunity must therefore be examined in the light of article 9 of the protocol. in accordance with article 9 (a) of the protocol, it is under national law that a request for the waiver of a member's immunity must be made. the austrian authorities have requested an extension of the waiver of immunity with a view to initiating further investigations. the case of fraud that is the subject of this request for waiver of immunity does not appear to be covered by the request that effectively resulted in the waiver of mr martin's immunity in 2011. in view of article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the austrian constitution, the committee on legal affairs concludes that there is no reason not to waive the immunity of hans-peter martin.
in writing. the frankenthal public prosecutor's office is considering initiating criminal proceedings against mr creutzmann on the grounds that he is alleged to have committed an offence of unintentional injury under article 229 of the german penal code. in its letter of 5 november 2012, the public prosecutor's office in frankenthal stated that mr creutzmann, while driving a vehicle, had refused to give priority to another vehicle at an intersection, causing a collision in which the passenger of the second vehicle was seriously injured. the acts allegedly committed by mr creutzmann, which the frankenthal prosecutor's office is considering investigating, are clearly neither opinions nor votes which mr creutzmann has expressed in the course of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. article 9 of the protocol is therefore the provision to be used in examining the request for waiver of mr creutzmann's immunity. in the light of article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the parliament and of the german basic law, the committee on legal affairs sees no reason why mr creutzmann's immunity should not be waived.
in writing. the presumptions relied on by the vienna public prosecutor's office to open an investigation against mr stadler are clearly not based on opinions he expressed or votes he cast in the course of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. the application for waiver of mr stadler's immunity must therefore be examined in the light of article 9 of that protocol. on the basis of this article and the corresponding provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the austrian constitutional law, the committee on legal affairs concludes that there are no grounds for waiving mr stadler's immunity. in particular, the committee found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity. according to the documents available, the vienna public prosecutor's office opened proceedings against mr stadler on 24 march 2010. the allegations against him relate to events that took place between 2006 and 2008.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to activate the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following a request from the commission which considered that the italian authorities' request fulfilled the conditions for activation in favour of the company antonio merloni spa following the dismissal of 1517 people between august and december 2011. the commission based its assessment on the assessment of the link between redundancies and major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed comprises measures for the vocational reintegration of the 1517 workers concerned, such as vocational guidance, job search assistance, incentives for entrepreneurship, vocational training and upgrading of skills, advice for workers over 50, job search allowance, subsidy for employment, contribution to travel costs and contribution to the costs of changing residence.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the maximum amount of the egf may not exceed eur 500 000 000 drawn from the margin below the expenditure ceiling of the previous year and/or from the cancelled commitment appropriations of the previous two years, excluding those under heading 1b. the necessary amounts shall be entered in the budget on a provisional basis as soon as sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments have been determined. as regards the procedure, in order to activate the egf when the application has been favourably assessed, the commission shall submit to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the egf and, at the same time, the corresponding transfer request. at the same time, a trilogue can be organised to reach agreement on the use of the egf and the required amounts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which activates the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of the commission to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. the purpose of this measure is to respond to a request for assistance from austria for the hundreds of workers made redundant in exceptional circumstances and because of the particular situation of the hainburg crossborder area.
in writing. as regards the exclusion of certain countries from trade preferences, i wanted to support a deadline of 1 january 2016 rather than 2014 for two main reasons. first, it would give the countries concerned more time to improve the current epa texts, which is essential for those countries whose future development would benefit greatly from fair and successful economic partnerships. secondly, a deadline of 2014 would force the countries concerned to ratify the current epas, which are unfavourable to them. this would have consequences not only for the countries concerned but also for the countries in their subregions with which they have close economic links.
in writing. for some ten years, the eu has been negotiating economic partnership agreements (epas) with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the current system of preferential access for acp countries to the eu market was due to expire in 2007. however, many acp states have not yet signed any of these agreements, for various reasons. however, this regulation governs the import regime in the eu for the 36 acp countries which initialled the economic partnership agreements in 2007. this was a transitional solution for countries not yet able to apply the epas but awaiting ratification. as a result, the european commission has proposed to remove from the list of beneficiaries of preferential access to the eu market, as of 1 january 2014, countries that have not signed or ratified their epas. in these circumstances, our group believes that the 2014 deadline is too close and that it puts too much pressure on the acp countries to allow these agreements to be concluded. we believe that 1 january 2016 is more appropriate.
in writing. - this vote demonstrates that reconciling the environmental challenges with the preservation of european competitiveness is a difficult - but necessary - balancing act. we are very much aware of the need to do everything possible to anchor industrial activity and employment in europe and to give them the opportunity to modernise and expand further. the european parliament, when introducing the emissions trading system, ensured that sufficient exemptions were built in to safeguard the competitiveness of energy-intensive sectors such as the chemical and steel industries. at the same time, we must also tackle the climate problems in a balanced way. however, the emissions trading system - one of the pillars of europe's climate strategy - is currently under severe pressure. the temporary withdrawal of a package of emission allowances - backloading - was proposed as a temporary measure to keep the system afloat. this vote does not in any way relieve us of the task of finding a solution to our emissions trading system, which is in danger of being overturned. the structural problems of the system need to be addressed if the european union is to remain on track towards a low-carbon economy.
in writing. the european parliament sent the worst possible signal this afternoon in the fight against global co2 emissions, rejecting the groote report by 334 votes to 315. the european parliament voted no to the european commission's exceptional intervention in the carbon market to temporarily remove 900 million tonnes of co2 in this third phase of auctions. and it accepts the gradual collapse of this mechanism with the identified flaws: vat fraud of more than 5 billion euros and a ridiculously low price of 5 euros per tonne of carbon, which does not incentivise large industrial facilities to invest to reduce their carbon footprint. i am surprised at this anti-european commission vote that turns its back on 10 years of environmental leadership by the european union, and gives the green light to "polluter rights" in this time of economic instability. a "real slap" for the industrial sectors and companies that have decided to invest in clean technologies. it is hardly a coincidence that this year we are starting to abolish free allowances, which account for 90% of co2 emission allowances. you said carbon free market?
in writing. - i supported this proposal because it addresses the current oversupply of allowances and the plunge in carbon prices. the european carbon market is currently at a low point, with a carbon price that has collapsed from €30 per tonne to €4. now companies can continue to emit co2 at a bargain price. so they are not encouraged to change their production at all. if no permanent solution is found, the emissions trading system will continue to fail to achieve domestic emission reductions and to stimulate investment in green technologies. adjustments to the system are necessary to accelerate the modernisation of the energy sector, particularly in central and eastern european member states, and to maintain the competitiveness of european industry. a thorough adaptation of the emissions trading system is also needed to confirm and strengthen the eu's leadership on climate change in the run-up to the 2015 paris climate negotiations. other countries, such as china and south korea, are poised to take the lead from the eu and are developing their own system, based on the european one. the eu must get its own emissions trading system out of the way if it is to maintain its leadership.
in writing. i support this report for the adoption of short and medium-term measures to ensure that the stability and predictability of the ems is not hampered by the decision to adapt the auction calendar only once during the third phase of the ems. this proposal would be a means of guaranteeing the stability of the ems until long-term structural measures are adopted. our proposal was to concentrate the system at the end of the period, i.e. to reduce the number of allowances auctioned over the next two years (2013-2015) and to increase the quantity auctioned during phase 3 which ends in 2020. this approach allows the number of quotas on the market to be reduced when demand is very low and increased in phase 3 when demand should have recovered. the end-of-period concentration does not constitute a permanent retention or a set-aside of allowances. any permanent reduction would require agreement, under a new co-decision procedure, on a more substantial amendment to the eu ets directive.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to demonstrate that the eu is not an obstacle to an international agreement and that if icao reaches an agreement, this would be the preferred option of the european union. that is why i support the one-year derogation for flights to and from the eea, if it will lead to a satisfactory international agreement this year.
in writing. it was a vote i was looking forward to on tuesday, as the european parliament has just adopted a cap on bankers' bonuses, as part of new rules to learn from the financial crisis. from now on, the variable remuneration of bankers will no longer be able to exceed the amount of their fixed remuneration! in addition, in order to better equip banks for future crises, they will be required to have a minimum of 8% of good quality capital. in the interests of transparency, they will also have to provide the european commission with a certain amount of information (financial results, taxes paid and subsidies received by country, number of employees). so i think this is a fundamental decision in the regulation of the banking system which will apply to... 8,300 banks which finance 75% of the european economy and territories!
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate. this new body of legislation consists of two different legal instruments. this directive contains provisions governing the authorisation, acquisition of qualifying holdings, exercise of the freedoms of establishment and provision of services, the powers of the supervisory authorities of the home and host member states in this field, and the provisions governing initial capital and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. its main purpose is to coordinate national provisions on access to the business of credit institutions and investment firms, their governance arrangements and their supervisory framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. consistent international action is needed to enhance transparency, accountability and regulation by improving the qualitative and quantitative aspects of capital adequacy in the banking system once the economic recovery is assured. we advocate the use of an additional risk-independent measure to limit the build-up of leverage within the banking system and the establishment of a framework with larger liquidity buffers.
in writing. the quality of service at major european airports will not improve through blind liberalisation, nor through the enforced maintenance of monopoly or duopoly. the gradual, moderate and socially-oriented opening up of the market at the major european airports, as proposed in the zasada report, provides the right impetus. the accompanying measures in the report of the committee on social affairs also guarantee the rights of workers. the possibility for self-dealers to use subcontractors at any time threatens to undermine the wage and working conditions of the ground handlers appointed by the airport in a structural and abusive manner. this is not in line with a moderate approach and therefore has no place in this regulation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which aims at a socially acceptable opening up of the airport ground handling market. the current legislation allows for a duopoly at some airports, whereby one of the two authorised ground handling service providers is often also owned by the airport operator itself. in the age of the european single market, there is no justification for such a closure of the market. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the internal market, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this limits the scope of the directive. this scheme can lead to an improvement in the quality of ground handling services, as it introduces for the first time minimum quality standards at airports and also a mutually recognised licensing system for the provision of ground handling services. the commission has also proposed to improve working conditions in this sector by imposing high social standards. this not only prevents social dumping but may even lead to higher wages in this sector. these improvements will not only benefit the european single market but also, and above all, air passengers, who will benefit from fewer delays and less loss of baggage.
in writing. the quality of services and working conditions in ground handling services at airports are essential elements for the efficiency and safety of passengers. the european parliament this afternoon supported a resolution aimed at encouraging competition in the sector, providing adequate training for applicants and ensuring information and assistance for the 800 million passengers who pass through our european airports every year. the text of course requires compliance with social provisions, including the obligation to apply the respective collective agreements of the member states, and the limitation of the use of subcontracting. however, independent service providers should be better protected when they are made redundant, and airport managers should be able to report more accurately on the conduct of their business. the text is clearly unclear on these issues and i abstained in this vote. the european parliament voted 444 to 255 in favour of the text, giving it the green light for negotiations in the trilogue, where it will be given its final verdict.
in writing. - i voted against the controversial proposal to further liberalise ground handling services at airports. the proposal is pointless, because it applies only to five airports, airports where there are no problems with these services at all. groundhandling services include loading and unloading, cleaning and refuelling aircraft, and the sector employs 60,000 people in europe. the worker will not be better off under this proposed legislation, on the contrary. the increase in the number of farms subject to the land-handling obligation will result in higher price pressures. since the wage costs are 75 percent of the production costs, this will be borne by the workers. we fear that the proposed legislation will worsen working conditions even further. when it really comes down to it, the limited set of social rules that were added to the proposal after a previous rejection will not apply, as the european union has no competence in this area. these worse working conditions undermine the quality of services, with unacceptable consequences for safety and security. this proposal will therefore not benefit the traveller at all.
in writing. i support this report which is categorically opposed to further liberalisation. the approval of new providers would lead to a greater pressure on prices, which would be passed on to employees through a reduction in labour costs. the last liberalisation has shown that this must be prevented. in the view of our group, the text adopted includes the following important progress: a representative collective agreement, with a definition of article 8 (qualification procedure) and article 9 (granting procedure) leading to compliance with the agreement by all suppliers, self-help providers and subcontractors; a restriction on subcontracting, defined as an authorized service in accordance with articles 16 & 17, which requires the subcontractor to apply the collective agreement and to guarantee decent working conditions in order to obtain the authorization. article 40 gives member states the right to withdraw or suspend approval in the event of non-compliance with the standards.
in writing. the main objective of this proposal is to prohibit discharges into the skagerrak. the current situation, which in some cases allows large parts of the total catch to be discarded, is perhaps the most difficult for the population to understand and support in the context of the common fisheries policy. the fact that we are facing serious difficulties in feeding the world's population at a time when good quality fish are being thrown into the sea seems incomprehensible, even immoral. the proposal establishes a landing obligation and the necessary provisions to monitor and ensure that this obligation is respected. the best way for the legislator to enforce the rules on citizens is to ensure that they are seen as fair and equitable. they want to obey the law, but they would only do so reluctantly if they felt it was unjust. the main instrument for converting the ban on discards into a fair solution, respecting fishing opportunities and quotas, does not fall within the competence of the european parliament.
in writing. with today's vote, we have asked the commission to report on the implementation of directive 2004/113/ec on equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services, the first directive to address gender equality outside the workplace. we also called on the european executive to pay more attention to cases of discrimination related to pregnancy, pregnancy planning and maternity, including in housing, obtaining loans, access to medical goods and services.
in writing. this eu directive, which entered into force on 21 december 2004, addresses gender equality and gender discrimination outside the world of work for the first time at eu level. the directive has been controversial in relation to the use of sex as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for insurance and related financial services. the test-achats judgment had major consequences in the field of car insurance premiums. the rapporteur notes that the commission's preparation of an implementation report setting out binding guidelines would have been very useful for the application of the rules. therefore, the commission should present clear guidelines on how to apply the directive and ensure that there are no gaps in the legislation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which opens up new avenues of thought and provides concrete indications on how to promote the development of our southern partner countries through international trade and economic links. it is important for developing countries to diversify their sources of income as much as possible. the report also targets the support that can be given to smes in these countries, which are potential drivers of higher growth. i would also stress the importance of transparency, which is essential in this area. the report also stresses the importance of the central role of the private sector, which i believe is essential to support public investment in these countries.
in writing. trade policy is one of the most important policy areas for the eu's policy coherence for development (dpc). if used properly, the instruments of trade policy can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. the eu's trade policy towards developing countries must have as its main objective to serve and reinforce the results achieved by our aid policy. seeking to develop the world, even by means other than aid, is tantamount to upholding the eu's core values and its treaty obligations. in order to better serve development objectives, eu trade policy must focus on generating positive spill-over effects in local, regional and national economies, as well as on promoting the diversification of developing countries' economies; it must also encourage more advanced and more profitable production. the imposition of customs duties on processed products in excess of those on raw materials may contribute to keeping developing countries in the role of mere exporters of raw materials.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which underlines the importance of trade for development. to improve the impact of these measures, the report proposes that more concrete consideration should be given to the specific features and capacities of the various countries and that efforts should be made to promote greater regional integration for these countries. it also stresses the need for developing countries to improve local governance and social, environmental and labour standards, as well as respect for human rights as a key criterion for improving and strengthening trade relations, which i believe is essential for improving the living conditions of the inhabitants. finally, the report addresses the role of emerging and developed countries. it rightly stresses that these countries must honour their commitments to promote economic development by ensuring that measures are taken in accordance with democratic principles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i would also like to stress the importance of decent wage levels and acceptable safety conditions at work for a sustainable system of global trade and new global production chains. synergies between trade and development policies need to be improved. they should take into account the needs and capacities of beneficiary countries, encouraging instruments such as regional integration to ensure better exploitation of these synergies, and prioritise measures aiming, inter alia, at: promoting sustainable and inclusive development; creating jobs and enhancing skills and human capital development while reducing social inequalities; to improve resilience to economic shocks; supporting the development of the private sector, in particular small operators, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to promote their participation in trade and investment at local, regional, cross-border, bilateral and multilateral levels; and improve fiscal governance and the fight against corruption, tax fraud and evasion, money laundering and tax havens, including through the establishment of information exchanges and control mechanisms on payments made by companies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i want to warn against a monetary kamikaze. we are witnessing a worldwide monetary bonanza: quantitative easing in the us and japan doubling its monetary base. monetary expansion has not helped much so far: the us labour market is weak and japan has been in recession for fifteen years already. the eurozone has its own version of monetary easing, in the form of the ltros – roughly one trillion euros of cheap credit. that monetary easing comes through a watering-down of collateral requirements. the german paper die welt asked the ecb about this, but met with evasion of the issue, i am afraid. those who think we can solve our problems by monetary easing are wrong. we can buy a bit of time, but the underlying realities only get worse. the financial crisis was fuelled by a long-lasting cheap money flow, but now we are making it worse. we are getting more cheap money. the new york stock exchange is booming, but i am afraid it is yet another bubble. we need the underlying realities to change. we need supply-side measures to turn around the situation: productive, innovative activities, reduced tax burdens and user-friendly regulation. but we are doing the opposite – more taxation. look at france: the french government aims to introduce a super tax on the rich. it fights tax evasion, and then the minister for budgets appears to be a tax evader himself and, thereafter, it appears that members of the french government – a socialist government – are among the rich. no wonder public support is melting away. some central bankers think that they are a substitute for god, if not yet replacing him. they create money out of nothing; they spread wealth without work. look at alan greenspan. once he was the god of the dollar. now he is regarded as the master of disaster. let me give you a suggestion, mr draghi. put a picture of mr greenspan high in your office as a reminder of the fallibility of central bankers.
blue-card question. – mr goebbels is saying that the effects of expansive monetary policy in the united states have been shown. i would remind him of the march employment statistics, which show only a very gradual increase in employment of 88 000 jobs, whereas the original estimate was for over 200 000 jobs. so i have to say that in the us you can see very little result from the extra money that is being added to the monetary volume.
i am going to speak on the discharge of parliament, the commission and the agencies. parliament's discharge first. i regret that there is no separate debate here. we have asked that many times. the discharge of parliament is something special. we give ourselves a pass, that's delicate. so we have to advocate for transparency. i would also have liked - not that i do not like you, mr vice-president - to have had mr schulz in that chair, because it is to him that we give discharge. i would have liked to have listened to him. so i regret this. that is why i am also calling for complete transparency. i support the amendments by both mr gerbrandy and mr davies, which call for greater transparency in members' expenditure, for transparency also in the special reports and the internal auditor's reports, that sort of thing. i would also like to draw your attention, mr president, to the amendment relating to the return journey between brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg. the commission's discharge then. my group is very satisfied with the analysis presented here, and also with the resolution prepared by mr geier, especially as regards the proposals for priority action which we are asking the commission to take. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the court of auditors itself has stated that the member states could have detected two thirds of the errors themselves. so better cooperation and better control are very necessary. the comments on the reinforced recovery of funds unduly paid are also very important. we also fully agree with the critical remarks on agriculture, regional policy, research and development. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for the good cooperation that has been established. he was also willing to accept many of our green proposals. but i must also say to mr geier that i am a little surprised by the 17 amendments he has tabled on behalf of his group. i have the impression that these are weakening the text as it stands, and i do not like that. i also expected you as rapporteur to defend the compromise reached and i therefore call on my colleagues not to accept the 17 amendments tabled by the s&d group. two more points on the discharge to the commission. - what? formally, the dalli case is not eligible for this discharge, but discharge is a political given. i therefore call for special attention to be paid to the two amendments which i also tabled with mrs gräßle, amendments nos 27 and 28 concerning olaf and the functioning of olaf. i think that fundamental rights must be absolutely guaranteed in an investigation and that we must take account of the observations made by the monitoring committee. offshore leaks, i have tabled two amendments on that too. i think we should pay special attention to this, because tax evasion and tax avoidance are absolutely unacceptable. the commission must therefore take action. finally, the agencies. the rapporteur last year, mrs macovei, placed a great deal of emphasis on the problem of conflicts of interest. i think mr gerbrandy has built on that very carefully. indeed, eliminating conflicts of interest is crucial to the credibility of at least four agencies: the food safety authority, the agency for drugs and chemicals and the agency for aviation safety. it is therefore absolutely essential to maintain political pressure on these agencies on a day-to-day basis. that is our political duty. i think the discharge exercise is a very good exercise in that respect and i thank mr gerbrandy for the work he has done in this respect.
for the epp group if there is one thing that the 50 discharge reports before us teach us, it is that there are quite a few european institutions whose usefulness is questionable to say the least. to name just two: the committee on economic and social affairs and the committee of the regions are two mini-parliaments whose impressive paper production is not seen by anyone, but which together cost taxpayers some 200 million euros a year. i also question the usefulness of other expensive institutions, such as the european institute for gender equality, the european union agency for fundamental rights and a number of other politically correct institutions which are actually doing double work with institutions which already exist in the member states. in these times of crisis, i think we should have used these discharges to at least give a clear indication of where the european nomenclature can save on that budget of 140 billion euros. yes, the monthly cost of moving to strasbourg, that is true, but also the millions of euros for the umbilical cord of the house of european history, the more than 70 million euros that have flowed to european political parties in recent years, the silly and especially expensive lux prize, that europarl tv that no cat watches, and more of that kind of crap. there are 50 reports to go, but we're missing an opportunity to finally show that we're finally going to respect those tired taxpayers.
the court of auditors has refused to clear the eu's accounts for the 18th time in a row. for the 2011 budget, the court of auditors has established a margin of error of 3,9%, which amounts to over eur 5 billion misused. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this is unacceptable in principle and in these times of economic crisis impossible to explain to the voters and taxpayers. in fact, the margin of error should be used to reduce the budget for the following years. this debate on the 2011 discharge is an opportunity to reflect on the many useless and wasteful institutions and agencies that the european union is rich in. i am thinking, for example, of the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee, the fundamental rights agency, and the list is far too long to list all of them. it is not only the eu's control that is lacking, but also the member states. it would be good if the court of auditors also released a list of the member states which are most at fault in the future. that information is available and i cannot understand why it is not being made public. [ the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
"blue card" is the answer. i thank the honourable member for his explanation, but i have also made it very clear that some money has been spent illegally and that some of it is also outright fraud. so i'm making the distinction. funds have been paid to farmers who do not have livestock. now, these are expenses that actually have more to do with fraud than with errors. this is unacceptable and difficult to explain to the voters. it is also true that even if something is not fraud, it must also be possible to investigate how to make it impossible or more difficult in the future to spend such funds illegally.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, you say it is normal that there is a split on this in parliament, but in fact it is not normal at all. hungary is breaching a number of fundamental principles of eu law and of the treaties, so it is not normal that there is a split. we should see a united parliament saying to hungary that it has to change a number of its provisions in a number of laws and in the constitution – certainly after the decisions taken on the fourth amendment. so i do not find it normal that this debate is again a debate between the left and the right. what the commission has said this morning is mainly an overview of all the letters they have sent to the hungarian authorities, of the two infringement procedures that they started and of the fact that hungary is non-compliant with one of these infringement procedures and with one of the decisions of the court of justice. i think far more is at stake. what is at stake is that the fourth amendment of this constitution defines a family as a heterosexual couple and discriminating against other couples. it allows parliament to vote on the status of churches and, by doing that, limits the freedom of religion in the country. it is about restricting the mobility rights of students. it is about reducing the power of the constitutional court – we did not hear that from the commission. that is the main problem at the moment: that the power of the constitutional court is limited by this fourth amendment. it concerns the concentration of the power of the judiciary in the hands of the national judicial office, which is in fact against the rule of law and is not allowed in any country of the european union. that is what it is about; that is what is at stake. i want to hear the council and the commission saying something different from simply giving an overview of all the letters sent to mr orbán and of the two infringement procedures and the fact that hungary is not complying with one of the decisions of the court of justice. we have an article in the treaty to handle this. we have article 7 of the treaty. article 7 of the treaty is very clear. it makes provision for a procedure when ‘there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values referred to in article 2’. i think there is already a breach, because mrs reding is saying that hungary is not complying with a decision of the court of justice concerning the application of these principles and values. maybe i am exaggerating. it is still a risk of a breach, but we can agree that there is a risk of a breach. after that kind of intervention by the commission, with these elements and arguments, is there a risk of a breach by hungary? everybody sounded normal, intelligent and rational in saying ‘yes’. beyond our political opinions, beyond the ideological footballs that lead to differences between us, we know there is a risk of a breach. that is my conclusion. my request is that the commission should start a procedure under article 7 and ask the council to debate it – or the council can do so itself. and if the commission does not do it, we have to have the courage here in this parliament to start infringement proceedings under article 7 of the treaty. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think everyone accepts that the way in which we handled the cyprus crisis over the last weeks and months was a disaster. it is naturally not very reasonable, or very fair, that we are saying that to you, mr rehn. it should be the eurogroup sitting there and hearing our assessment of how the cyprus file has been handled, because it has given the impression that europe is failing. but what is failing is in fact the bad intergovernmental system that we have today, whereby 17 ministers of finance have to deal, case by case, now with cyprus, previously with ireland, then portugal, and tomorrow maybe with spain or italy. how does it work? we know they wait until the last moment. that is their first rule. the second rule is that they meet at the end of the week or the beginning of the weekend under the pressure of the opening of the markets on monday. then they take a decision, case by case and under pressure, thinking they have solved the problem. i think that what we have seen in the case of cyprus is proof of the fact that, regarding these problems, we need to have, as soon as possible, a european resolution fund, a european mechanism and no longer a case-by-case approach, as we have seen today. i urge you, mr rehn, to come forward as fast as possible with a proposal. i know that mr barroso told us that a proposal would be on the table before june. with such a european resolution fund it should be the banks which are paying contributions in relation to their risk profile, with a savings bank paying a lower contribution and an investment bank, with a high risk, paying a higher contribution. at any rate an end should be put to the game that you are playing at the moment whereby, in every interview, we are asking who has to pay the bill. is it the taxpayers, the depositors, the shareholders or the bondholders? i think all these are bad solutions. the only good solution is the european resolution fund, whereby we make an insurance system with contributions by the financial sector itself. my request to you, mr rehn, is that you speed up that proposal. do not wait for the green light from berlin and paris this time. put it on the table as soon as possible so that parliament and the council can start. in the meantime – and this is my second point – i want to know what went wrong in the case of cyprus. we have asked for hearings in the econ committee. we shall organise that on 25 april, because there are a number of questions – questions that have been answered today. who proposed this levy on small depositors, which i think was the worst idea ever? why did the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, say that the cyprus crisis is systemic? we have a european systemic risk board. what were they doing? if the crisis is systemic, then the esrb should have done something. otherwise, why do we need an esrb? what was the role of the troika in the sale of the cypriot banks? finally, a difficult question for the ecb: how does the emergency liquidity assistance operate in the cyprus issue? because that was used as long as 18 months ago. we need these answers. we need to create transparency about what happened, from lessons learned. that is absolutely necessary. if there is no sufficient answer at the hearings of the econ committee, my group will call for the immediate setting up of a parliamentary inquiry committee to shed light and find answers to these and other questions.
madam president, good job, sharon bowles, i support everything you've said. commissioner rehn, i would like to speak to you. a month ago, before that famous weekend, it took 17 billion to make the cypriot debt sustainable. last week, we find out it's 23. a small mistake behind the comma, perhaps. so, what, you think your forecasters are incompetent? i don't think he did. i think these are people who know their job. or should we rather think that we arrange the numbers to please, so that reality looks more beautiful than it really is? all this is to enable some people, and i am referring to germany, to get away with it without too much trouble. you doctored the figures on the sustainability of the greek debt. forecast after forecast, dg ecfin has been wrong or pretended to be wrong about the greek situation. what i am saying is that your responsibility is not to make up stories to get germany out of the way, but to tell everyone what the reality is. secondly, let the politicians take their responsibility.
mr president, let me say that i prefer a bail-in over a bail-out. the cost of saving banks should not be carried by taxpayers but by stakeholders above the deposit threshold of eur 100 000. those who have a stake in a bank, hoping for profits in return, should also carry the burden when losses are made. these losses should not be socialised. let me draw your attention also to another aspect, mr commissioner. what are the conditions cyprus has to meet for softening the terms of a loan of eur 2.5 billion it got from russia? in the march issue of jane’s defence weekly – as we know a reputable publication – it is reported that russia is going to set up a navy taskforce in the mediterranean. according to the russian minister of defence, the force will require shore facilities. it did not specify where. so therefore i ask the commission to ask cyprus whether any deals relating to these issues were made with russia.
mr president, i think there is some confusion. as far as i know, amendment no 9 has not been tabled in the plenary. i would like to see us vote on amendment no 9. you said it was a unanimous vote. i have it written down as a simple vote on a show of hands.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge, stressing that the commission should demonstrate that the financial corrections have compensated for errors and have contributed to sustainable improvements in the management and control systems. the commission should also be more accountable to the national audit authorities and control systems in the member states where the most errors have been committed.
in writing. i supported this report by focusing in particular on special report no 13/2011 which calls on the commission to ask member states to simplify their vat legislation, to introduce a standard form for the notification of the application of vat to tax authorities and to establish a uniform and adequate management of cases of vat exemption by the customs authorities of the member states. i would also like to support report no 12/2012 which stresses the need to further strengthen the governance of the european statistical system and to complete swiftly the ongoing review of the governance structure of the european statistical system with a view to simplifying decision-making processes.
in writing. the epp rapporteur, ms ortiz, focused as much as possible in the 2011 discharge report on this year's budgetary achievement as our s&d rapporteur did the previous year. previous rapporteurs had tried to extend the scope of the discharge report well beyond the budgetary achievement of the year in question. however, in these times of enormous pressure on national and european budgets, the examination of the implementation of the parliament's budget is just as necessary as that of the other bodies of the union. the report examines all areas of parliament's expenditure. the debate on discharge to the parliamentary budget is now included as a separate item in the agenda of the plenary and immediately precedes the debate on other discharges. this was requested by last year's plenary resolution, and voted in committee as indicated in the report on the 2011 discharge.
in writing. i voted for discharge. the commission shall implement the budget and manage the programmes in cooperation with the member states and under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. we hereby give the director of the executive agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011. established in 1957 by the treaty of rome and first used in 1959, the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument of community development assistance to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the overseas countries and territories (octs).
in writing. the court of auditors found, on the basis of its audit work, that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2011 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from material error. however, i regret that the council is not sufficiently transparent and i stress that all the institutions of the union are required to respect the same standards of transparency. i am convinced that parliament and the council, as co-legislators, should apply the same standards of transparency and i call on the council to improve its performance in this area without delay.
in writing. good news: the court of justice of the european union (hereinafter 'court of justice') had commitment appropriations of a total of eur 335 904 453,30 in 2011 (323 784 221,30 in 2010) and the implementation rate of appropriations for section iv court of justice remained very high in 2011 (over 98% in total, and even over 99% for title 2 appropriations). it should be noted that the implementation rate could have reached 99% had the council not rejected the proposal for salary adjustment presented by the commission (+1.7% with retroactive effect as of 1 july 2011). it should also be added that the court of justice has drawn up its annual report in such a thorough and detailed manner, including precise information on the management of its human resources, as requested by parliament.
in writing. the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to ensure that the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied to the entities it audits are applied to the court of auditors; notes the opinion of the auditors that 'the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the court'. i look forward to the second peer review that the court of auditors will launch in 2013 on the practice of performance auditing within the court of auditors. parliament should be informed of the implementation of the findings of the first preliminary peer review in 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the eesc should provide more detailed information in its annual report on the provision of meeting rooms for external civil society organisations working in liaison with the eesc. i would like to see more information on the benefits and costs of these organizations and how they are chosen. i agree with the recommendations of the internal audit as set out in annex b to the eesc's annual activity report. the projects developed to modernise documentation management and the it infrastructure should also be welcomed; considers that the reform of documentation management is progressing positively and will contribute to improving the performance of the eesc. i hope that the it reform will achieve the same results; i ask that these projects be followed up in the 2012 activity report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i reiterate my position that, in the interests of transparency, declarations and updates of the financial interests of members of all the institutions should be made available on the internet. i welcome the decision taken by the committee's bureau in 2011 to make the declarations of financial interests of its members available online and hope that they will be made available as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the court of auditors, on the basis of its audit work, has found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2011 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from material error. however, i note with concern that the average length of investigations continued to increase in 2011, with only 66% of cases closed within 12 months and 80% within 18 months. we need a substantial improvement in this rate. parliament called on the ombudsman to specify the percentage of cases involving more than one round of inquiries and when a second round of inquiries is required. the parliament also calls for a sustained increase in the percentage of decisions on the admissibility of complaints taken within one month of receipt of the complaint, which reached 70% in 2011. the restructuring of the ombudsman's office, which was introduced at the beginning of 2012, and a more harmonised procedure for the register can help to improve the performance of the complaints unit in the coming years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i do have a few criticisms. firstly, the system for defining the key performance indicators and the calibration system that was to be implemented in 2012 are already fully operational; the annual activity report for the coming year will therefore have to assess in detail the improvements made by this system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the controller must include in his next annual activity report a comprehensive table of all the human resources at his disposal, broken down by category, grade, sex, participation in vocational training and nationality. finally, the court of auditors should continue to place emphasis on the audit of the sound financial management of the controller, in particular the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which he uses his appropriations in the exercise of his responsibilities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, there is cause for concern that the court of auditors found that non-compliance with the rules resulted in a limited number of incorrect payments to staff, legal uncertainty for temporary staff and the eeas, non-compliance with the financial regulation, non-recovery of vat and a breach of the public procurement rules to which all union institutions must comply. takes note that the eeas is fully responsible for its functioning and that the eeas has indicated that it has taken the necessary measures to prevent the recurrence of non-compliance; we urge the eeas to make the most of economies of scale by creating new synergies at the eeas headquarters and within its delegations, as well as in cooperation with member states and national diplomatic services, in the spirit of a genuine union diplomatic corps; stresses the need, in this connection, to make every effort to achieve, as far as possible, the co-localization of services in third countries in order to facilitate the exchange of information and to achieve savings.
in writing. in voting for this report today, i particularly stressed the need for european agencies to adopt measures as a matter of urgency to ensure transparent, fair and objective recruitment procedures. this is absolutely essential to establish the credibility of these agencies vis-à-vis the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i would stress the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, particularly with regard to the quality of medicines, food safety, aviation safety and the fight against the spread of infectious disease outbreaks. i would stress in this connection the major importance of the autonomy of agencies, particularly for regulatory agencies and those responsible for collecting information independently. the main purpose of the decentralised agencies was to provide independent technical and scientific evaluations. i propose that, from next year onwards, and in order to facilitate the task of the authority responsible for discharge to the agencies, in view of the considerable number of agencies and the increasing complexity of their activities, as well as the information resulting from them, parliament should consider, in the context of its examination and the preparation of an opinion on an agency, a reorganization which would allow the appointment of several rapporteurs, as has already been the case this year for other institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i note with concern the court of auditors' observations that the high level of unused appropriations and carryovers, as well as the low level of payments, are contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality and indicate that there are shortcomings affecting budget planning and implementation. furthermore, it is of concern that in 2011 the agency paid travel allowances of eur 10 839 to seconded experts who are nationals of the host state of the agency and that these payments are contrary to the rules on the secondment of national experts adopted by the administrative board of the agency, which provide for the granting of such allowances only to temporary agents who are not nationals of the member state on whose territory they work.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. as regards recruitment procedures, it is important to note the court of auditors' observation that there is a need to improve the transparency of the procedures. parliament noted the office's reply, which states that it updated its guidelines for recruitment procedures in june 2012 in order to implement the court's findings. we nevertheless invite the office to follow up this matter and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken. it is clear that certain provisions of the staff regulations are likely to create a considerable administrative burden. i therefore encourage the commission to allow a certain degree of simplification under article 110 of the staff regulations as regards the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the figures show that the centre's budget includes revenue consisting of payments made by the bodies for which it works and by the union institutions and bodies with which it has concluded cooperation, in particular in the form of interinstitutional activities, in return for work carried out, as well as miscellaneous revenue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the centre's contribution to promoting vocational education and training in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and in particular its participation in the development of the flagship eu initiative 'a strategy for new skills and jobs' in 2011, can only be welcomed. we therefore call for better use of the centre's recommendations and capacity building in the context of the european semester, in particular in the preparation of the annual review of growth and macroeconomic indicators. on the other hand, it is encouraging that the court of auditors has declared the transactions underlying the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 to be legal and regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the court of auditors' conclusions consider that cepol's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, cepol's financial position as at 31 december 2011, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ended 31 december 2011, and further specify that the operations underlying cepol's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects. welcomes also the efforts of cepol to streamline its governance and improve its effectiveness, for example by implementing measures to dissolve certain committees and reduce the number of annual meetings of the steering committee, which are now mainly devoted to policy development and decision-making at the strategic and long-term level, and to improve its performance without increasing its budget; welcomes the agency's full response to the european parliament's requirements and the current budgetary challenges by drastically reducing its governance costs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i would remind you that the court of auditors considers the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011 to be reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular in all material respects. the importance of the agency's contribution to maintaining a uniformly high level of civil aviation safety in europe should be underlined. in addition, the agency has established an ethics committee to ensure an independent, impartial and objective assessment of the declarations of interests submitted by the agency's staff and has already proposed to its management board to implement a similar policy for its members.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, the authority must avoid, in the future, the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in relation to the three legal commitments entered into before the budgetary commitments. i am also surprised that the european financial market supervisory authority has not been able to ensure a rapid validation of its accounting system. finally, we hope that in future all controlled procurement procedures will be fully in line with the provisions of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union and that all union rules on public procurement will be respected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, the court of auditors' observation on the poor management of contracts should be noted; assessed the ecdc's response to two special framework contracts and the interaction with the court of auditors in this specific case. parliament called on and encouraged the ecdc to organise specific training for its staff involved in the award of contracts in order to strengthen internal control procedures and transparency and to reduce the error rate; stresses that no funds were lost and no parties were disadvantaged.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. as regards conflicts of interest, it is to be welcomed that the court carried out an audit focusing on the assessment of the policies and procedures for the management of conflict of interest situations for four european agencies, including the agency, and presented the results of that audit in the court of auditors' special report no 15/2012. however, it is regrettable that, according to the court of auditors' findings, at the time of completion of the fieldwork (october 2011), the agency was not managing conflict of interest situations satisfactorily. i would also point out that the conflict of interest management policies applied by the agency were incomplete, that declarations of interest were neither audited nor published but were placed in a sealed envelope, and that no training was provided in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it should be reiterated that the european court of auditors considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects. the discharge procedure must relate to the preceding financial year. i am fully aware of the difficulty of the procedure for granting discharge for the financial year 2010, but i believe that any progress made since then should be duly noted and taken into account. i also note that the european environment agency is a valuable source of environmental information and knowledge on which the commission services rely heavily for policy development, monitoring and evaluation. the agency's roles have steadily increased in recent years and have earned it an international reputation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. welcomes the agency's initiative to continue preparing its multiannual and annual work programmes; stresses the importance of these documents in enabling the agency to organise effectively the implementation of its strategy and the achievement of its objectives; the agency's work programme and resource planning shall be multiannual in scope, through the development of a multiannual work programme, its multiannual staff policy plan and a multiannual it strategic plan. in addition, the agency has had an it strategic plan in place since 2010, which is reviewed and updated annually.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. furthermore, the court of auditors considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects, stresses again that the discharge procedure must relate to the previous financial year. it should be borne in mind that any progress made since then should be duly noted and taken into account. in this respect, it should be noted that the court of auditors' special report no 15/2012 on the management of conflicts of interest in a selection of european union agencies does not fully take into account the latest developments and improvements put in place by the authority. i am pleased to note the improvement of all procedures relating to transparency and possible conflicts of interest within the authority. it is important to work continuously to strengthen all policies related to transparency and independence and to support the executive director in continuing his efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i would like to recall the important role played by the european institute for gender equality in promoting gender equality and integrating it into all union and national policies, as well as in combating discrimination based on sex and raising awareness of the issue of equality between men and women among union citizens. i would stress, in view of the objectives and mission of the institute, that it is essential to retain an independent specialised entity within the institutional framework. it is also worth highlighting the importance of the institute's activities for mainstreaming gender issues into policy and for strengthening the presence of women in senior management positions, as required by recent commission documents on gender equality, such as the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a better gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important to emphasise the importance of a satisfactory match between the budget allocated and the available posts on the one hand and the tasks entrusted to the authority on the other hand, as a lack of matching may result in an unbalanced staff structure in terms of recruitment of the authority's staff on the one hand and the involvement of national experts on the other. i note with concern that the commission, on the proposal of the authority, has changed the establishment plan without clearly mentioning it. i urge the commission to be fully transparent on this and all the other points. it is also necessary to note the concerns expressed in the preliminary conclusions of the imf's december 2012 evaluation of the financial sector in the european union, which recommended increasing the resources and powers of the european supervisory authorities to enable them to fulfil their mandate properly, as well as to strengthen their operational independence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it should be noted that, in addition to the increase in staff, a new organisation chart was put in place in september 2011 to allocate a sufficient number of staff in particular to the strengthening of administrative and horizontal tasks, budget planning and execution, human resources management and accounting and internal audit tasks, thus laying the foundations for a solid staff function at the institute.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i note with concern that, as in its previous reports, the court of auditors has stressed the need to set up a system of remuneration for services provided by the member states' authorities, based on the costs actually borne by the latter. it is regrettable that no progress has been made in this area since 2009, when a new payment system was presented to the management board without any agreement being reached. the agency will present a new proposal for a new payment system to the management board in march 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i am concerned that, according to the court of auditors' findings, the centre has not yet adopted or implemented a cash policy to spread and minimise financial risk while trying to achieve appropriate returns. parliament therefore called on the observatory to take all the corrective measures announced without delay and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to remedy this shortcoming.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i am concerned that the court of auditors found that budgetary commitments amounting to eur 0,9 million did not correspond to existing legal commitments and that the agency should have decommitted this amount and reimbursed it to the commission in early 2012. however, the agency started this process too late and therefore, due to limitations imposed by the it system, these funds will be blocked for one year and will not be released and reimbursed until the end of 2012. it should be added, however, that the agency has taken steps to ensure that the outstanding commitments not linked to existing legal obligations are cleared before the end of the financial year and has instructed its authorising officers to initiate the clearance procedure as soon as they are certain that a measure is not or will not be fully implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i can only be concerned that the court of auditors has once again identified 33% of carryovers under the agency's operating budget (title iii). i am concerned that this situation reveals delays in the implementation of the agency's activities financed under title iii and that it is not in line with the budgetary principle of annuality. the agency must once again notify the discharge authority of the measures taken to remedy this deficiency, although it should be noted that the situation has improved compared to the previous year (52%).
in writing. in the current austerity climate, long-term investments such as parliament's building projects need to be considered with caution and in a transparent manner. rigour is required in cost management and in project planning and monitoring; reiterates its call for a transparent decision-making process in the field of housing policy, based on rapid information. i recall the request made by parliament in its resolution of 16 february 2012 on the guidelines for the 2013 budgetary procedure that detailed information on the progress of real estate projects and their financial implications be provided every six months and the statement by parliament that no new unplanned real estate projects should be undertaken by the end of this parliamentary term.
in writing. at the european summit in june 2012, the heads of state or government announced that once the single supervisory mechanism is in place, the esm could be used to recapitalise euro area banks directly. however, this option would not be open to non-euro area member states that adhere to the single surveillance. these member states have access to the balance of payments instrument, but its toolbox is limited compared to that of the esm. there are apparently no legal obstacles. however, the instrument is limited in terms of the amount of funds available to it. it is estimated that the maximum capacities of the oda instrument may not exceed 60 billion. this limitation is due to the fact that the funds are guaranteed by the union budget. if one of the borrowing member states were to default, the union would risk defaulting on its own obligations. if a financial institution were to be recapitalised directly through the bdp instrument, the union budget would then be exposed to that institution. the risk is much lower if the loan is granted to a member state and not directly to a financial institution.
in writing. - the ecb can of course only act within the framework of its mandate, and by acting within a very narrow margin of manoeuvre it has nevertheless helped to save countries such as greece, portugal, france and belgium from serious financial problems. the debate on more or less competence should of course be held, but it is out of place in the context of the annual report.
in writing. this annual report assesses the european central bank's (ecb) actions in 2011 in the context of the economic and social crisis in which it played a crucial role. the report analyses in particular the ecb's monetary policy action, the exceptional measures taken in response to the financial crisis, the central role of the ecb within the banking union and institutional issues related to the bank. our group supports the measures taken by the ecb to reduce the cost of borrowing for member states and to stabilise financial markets. however, we are concerned about the lack of effect of these policies on the real economy, and about the capacity of the banking system to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises and households. monetary policy must be complemented by additional fiscal instruments at the level of emu, in order to create a policy balance that facilitates growth and employment. the growing role of the european central bank within the troika and the banking union makes it necessary to define new governance rules to increase both the transparency and accountability of the european monetary union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i should like to remind you of the proposal that the commission is to present on the european railway agency in order to improve its role, in particular by giving it new tasks in the field of vehicle authorizations and safety certificates and by strengthening its control over national railway safety rules and over national railway authorities, whose cooperation at european level is still insufficient. the commission should put in place the necessary tools to promote the creation of a genuine and competitive single european railway area and calls for sufficient resources to be allocated to this end, in particular by providing the european railway agency with sufficient financial and human resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. on this discharge, it might be useful for the commission to consider the possibility of presenting a proposal to ensure that the budgets of the european supervisory authorities are fully financed by the union budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it should be noted that the foundation's problems with its premises remain, although the commission has already asked the italian authorities to solve them. on the other hand, there is still uncertainty about the future of the foundation's headquarters following the liquidation of the consortium which managed the villa gualino housing the foundation. the italian authorities should find a solution to this problem quickly. finally, the foundation's commitment to a cash flow policy that allows it to allocate its financial risk and reduce it to a minimum should be noted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. in this regard, in 2011, the agency's internal audit service produced an audit report entitled 'website and external communications in the eu-osha', which resulted in non-critical recommendations, two 'very important' recommendations and five 'important' recommendations. all seven recommendations were approved by management and have already been implemented (six of the seven in 2011 and the last in 2012). the agency has carried out an evaluation of and reported on the it tasks within the agency and has also monitored the follow-up to the recommendations of previous audits.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it should be noted that in 2011 the agency did not receive any grant for the financing of its operational activities and that the commission has covered all the expenditure incurred by the agency in the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011. this situation has persisted since the agency was established in 2008. in the absence of an autonomous budget, the agency was de facto integrated into the commission in 2011 even though this situation is not in line with its statutes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i would stress that the commission has committed itself to further examining, in collaboration with the european training foundation, the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work, the synergies between these four agencies and to report to the discharge authority on the possibilities for further integration between them, before any decision is taken on any possible changes to the respective responsibilities and/or working methods of these agencies. i invite these agencies and the commission to assess whether closer cooperation would allow economies of scale and an optimisation of their performance
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. in this context, i would like to point out that the number of cases in which member states requested eurojust's assistance in combating serious cross-border crime increased from 1 421 in 2010 to 1 441 in 2011. it is also noted that 218 fraud cases were registered in 2011 and that the number of anti-fraud coordination meetings increased from 17 in 2010 to 58 in 2011. during the year, eurojust's economic and financial crimes team completed the strategic project initiated to improve the exchange of information and mutual assistance between the judicial authorities of the eu member states in the area of vat fraud.
in writing. the aim of the proposal is to clarify and harmonise the union rules on the vat treatment of vouchers. this will have a positive impact on businesses by eliminating double taxation and uncertainty about their tax obligations. it will also help to close the loopholes which facilitate tax evasion by certain companies exploiting disparities between member states. the new rules also fit well into the wider framework of the digital strategy for europe, in particular its objective of creating a digital single market. i am convinced that a coherent legal framework on vouchers is essential to implement by 2015 the rules on the change of place of delivery/service in business-to-consumer transactions. without these rules, any undertaking selling identical vouchers to individuals in different member states could be required to apply totally different vat treatments to those vouchers, even if the vouchers and the goods or services they enable to be purchased are the same.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. europol used its information and operational expertise to support member states' authorities in 13 697 cases with a cross-border dimension, an increase of 17% compared to 2010. in addition, more than 25% of europol's operations were drug-related, including support for 22 high-level human trafficking investigations, nine large-scale european operations targeting criminal networks for the support of illegal immigration and operations against the sexual exploitation of children such as operation rescue, which resulted in 250 arrests worldwide and the protection of 252 children. europol should be congratulated on these results and encouraged to continue along this path.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the court of auditors has not made any critical remarks in its report, and this is worth noting. the annual accounts of the agency shall present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the agency as at 31 december 2011, the results of its operations and the cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. parliament called on frontex to continue to strengthen the monitoring of joint operations. notes the court of auditors' observation that 'the agency, although carrying out likelihood checks, does not generally require supporting documents that would limit the risk of non-detection of ineligible expenditure'. we welcome the response from frontex that since january 2012 the agency requires supporting documents 'for the majority of expenses incurred in joint return operations' and for other grants 'when discrepancies are detected in the final financial statements'. the supporting documents should in principle be required.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. parliament welcomes the court of auditors' observation that the problem that led to its reserved opinion on the reliability of the agency's 2010 accounts and the incorrect accounting treatment of tangible fixed assets related to the galileo programme has been resolved. the court of auditors received confirmation that these capital assets are now under the control of the commission and should not be capitalised in the agency's accounts. the court of auditors therefore considers that there is no longer any need to reserve its opinion on this basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. i wonder if it would not be useful to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of a merger with eniac and to inform the european parliament of the results of this assessment; the committee of the regions believes that this report should highlight the possible advantages and disadvantages of such a merger. i would once again ask the court of auditors to provide parliament with a special report within a reasonable time on the common issues which arise because of the nature of the joint ventures and which should be addressed by the joint ventures and their partners, in order to ensure the added value of the joint ventures and the efficient execution of the union's research, technological development and demonstration programmes. in addition, the report shall include an assessment of the effectiveness of the creation and structure of the joint ventures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i am concerned that the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's annual accounts on the grounds that the error rate found in the ex post audits was 6,16%; notes that the ex-post audits completed by the joint undertaking covered an amount of eur 44 300 000 (i.e. 18,8% of all declarations of expenditure received by the joint undertaking in 2008); i regret that the error rate resulting from these ex post audits was 6.16%, and 4.09%, taking into account the corrective actions applied, such as the recovery mechanism; reiterates that the joint undertaking should immediately improve the quality of its ex ante controls in relation to the management of subsidies. the discharge authority will be informed of the results of the next ex post audit processes carried out by the joint undertaking and a detailed progress report with concrete proposals to progressively reduce the error rate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i regret that appropriations from the joint undertaking which should have been implemented by the end of 2010 and others by the end of 2011 were decommitted in january 2012 and that the overall unused commitment of eur 2 800 000 on the budget line for operational activities for 2010 with a final implementation date of 31 december 2011 was not decommitted. i am also concerned that the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the joint undertaking on the grounds that the joint undertaking was not in a position to determine whether the ex post audit strategy provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the joint undertaking should immediately improve the quality of its ex ante controls, in particular with regard to the management of subsidies; requests that the discharge authority be informed of the results of the upcoming ex post audit processes carried out by the joint undertaking.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, i am concerned that the court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the joint undertaking on the grounds that eight out of 12 ex post audits as defined in the ex post audit strategy adopted by the joint undertaking's governing board in january 2011 were completed by the end of september 2012, covering an amount of eur 4 800 000 (27% of all cost statements received by the joint undertaking in 2011) and that two of those audits revealed significant errors, the largest of which (eur 764,000) was corrected in the course of the following year. i also note with concern that the budgetary procedure laid down in the financial regulations of the joint undertaking was not applied, as the joint undertaking misinterpreted the derogation granted by the commission allowing the inclusion of cancelled appropriations in the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the following three years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. however, the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 and the implementation plan were adopted by the steering board only on 4 april 2011 due to the time taken to establish and approve the scientific priorities to be included in the annual implementation plan. this delayed the launch of the call for proposals and, throughout the first quarter, the joint undertaking had to use the provisional twelfths system to make payments. i am concerned that the court of auditors has given a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the joint undertaking on the grounds that the error rate found in the ex post audits was 6.84%. the joint undertaking has completed ex-post audits covering an amount of eur 2 200 000 (i.e. 18,8% of the contribution that the joint undertaking agreed to pay for the first call it validated in june 2011). i also regret that, on the basis of the application of the joint undertaking's methodology, the detected and residual error rates are 4.58 and 3.72%, respectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2011, the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2011, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation. we now expect the joint undertaking to implement and fully use an integrated tool to manage budgetary, financial and operational information; implement fully the action plans adopted by the joint undertaking in response to internal audits relating to financial circuits, grant management and expert contracts; have the underlying systems validated by the accounting officer; adopt an overall ex post audit strategy for grants and contracts relating to operational activities; completes a risk management exercise at company level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this discharge. it is recognised that the sesar joint undertaking has made a key contribution to the development of a modern air traffic management system in europe. member states must fulfil their commitments to achieve the objective of a single european sky, the completion of which is intrinsically linked to that of the sesar programme. the court of auditors has found that the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism through which child support obligations can be enforced and secured where the person liable for the maintenance is resident in a third country. parliament has already approved the convention, which was signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, in order for the convention to be applicable in the union, the deposit of the instrument of approval is necessary. as is customary in international conventions, the deposit of the instrument of approval must be accompanied by information concerning the national central authorities and any reservations which may apply to certain articles of the convention. following consultations with the member states, certain amendments should now be made to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention, which will allow the deposit of the instrument of approval. the amendments concern in particular cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2012 comprehensive monitoring report of croatia (2012/2871 ((rsp)).
i shall answer that question at once, sir, and mr brons has the floor.
i think you've said what you had to say. let me reply by saying that i think i have acted in a very proportionate way to the requests i have received, in such a way as to respect as much as possible pluralism, but also the speaking time we need for the next debate. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 18 april, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2012 comprehensive monitoring report of turkey (2012/2870 ((rsp)).
the debate has shown once again that the solution to the many hot spots which are hampering relations between the eu and turkey lies in turkish hands, including the kurdish question. i have already warned here of the danger of ankara unilaterally setting the terms of the peace process with the kurds. we must therefore be careful that this does not become a good news show for erdoğan and his people. the recent creation of a council of 49 turkish sages, who are to explain the peace process throughout the country, but then seen through the rose-colored glasses of ankara, suggests the opposite. we are not optimistic, either, when we look at the kck trial, the numerous arrests of politically elected representatives and journalists. the report rightly emphasizes the need for a lasting political dialogue between ankara and all the kurdish political forces, because that is the key to the kurdish solution. the eu must therefore also take full advantage of this momentum to fully enforce the self-evident fundamental rights of the kurds. full language and cultural rights, political autonomy and a constitution which finally recognizes freedom of expression, association and assembly for the 15 million kurds in the country.
it was unbelievable that in 2004 the decision was taken to open accession negotiations with turkey, a non-european country like turkey. what is even more incredible is that nine years later these negotiations are still being held, despite the commitment that the negotiations would be suspended if it became clear that turkey was not fulfilling its obligations. let us at least stop talking about a progress report when there is no progress at all in the case of turkey. nowhere in the world are more journalists in prison than in turkey. other opinion makers, such as writers and professors, are also in prison for expressing an opinion. the day before yesterday, the well-known pianist fazil say was sentenced to a suspended prison sentence for expressing an opinion critical of islam. the islamist government of erdoğan is pursuing an increasingly authoritarian, anti-european, anti-western and anti-christian course, and that is why we must now gradually put an end to these negotiations on turkey's accession. let us, for once, european commission, take account of the voters in europe who seem to have more common sense and more historical awareness than the european policy-makers.
member of the commission. − mr president, minister, honourable members, let me make two points: the first one is that kosovo has made substantial progress, both in the dialogue with serbia and also in the technical preparations for a stabilisation and association agreement, and kosovo should not stop there. we want kosovo to be ready across the board so that we can convince our member states to develop our relationship further. kosovo needs to continue with the same dynamism, with further credible efforts on the rule of law and all the issues we highlighted in our 2012 feasibility study. the commission will continue to support kosovo in this, and that brings to me a second remark: the discussion about the five member states. now, the college’s responsibility is clearly defined by the treaties, and you will not find there any basis for commission involvement in this issue. but i do not want to hide behind what this statement, although it reflects the reality of the treaty. this brings me to the three issues which we are pursuing jointly, under the leadership of high representative cathy ashton. we have absolutely no problem in combining common foreign and security policy (cfsp), member state and community instruments to tackle these issues, because what matters for both of us, with the support of the member states and the european parliament, is that we deliver. let me explain what exactly we want to deliver, and how exactly we thereby hope to make it easier for the five countries in question to make, when the time comes, the relevant decision on the relationship with kosovo. first, normalisation. it was this commission which last year, as part of the progress report, was the first to come up with the concept of normalising the relationship between belgrade and pristina. we described for the first time what we meant by normalisation, and we incorporated it into the enlargement process and thus created the only framework which could create the conditions for the relationship between belgrade and pristina to be normalised. this, i believe, will be a very important consideration – not only for those five member states, but particularly for them – when they decide about the relationship. the second issue is the dialogue. we have already had the second stage of the dialogue. you will remember the technical one, where a number of agreements were reached, and where implementation continues. we also have a political dialogue at the highest level. we have discussed that a lot this afternoon and this evening, and i can confirm that the dialogue is still continuing. i am determined that it shall continue until later today. the dialogue is an important part of normalisation. the dialogue should bring a solution, which again will make the relationship with kosovo easier. this brings me to the third point. high representative cathy ashton and i were both very keen to have kosovo involved in the mainstream of the enlargement process. it is one aspect of the stabilisation and association agreement. we presented the feasibility study last october and have put forward some minimum requirements for kosovo to deliver as part of negotiating the right step forward for kosovo to be a part of the enlargement mainstream in the western balkans. the second one is visa dialogue, which sooner or later is going to bring kosovo citizens the same benefits as other countries in the western balkans, namely a visa-free system as far as the schengen countries are concerned. the framework agreement with kosovo allowing it to participate in european union programmes will be another legally binding document, once parliament gives its consent and we are able to sign it. it will be just another concrete contribution to bringing kosovo into the mainstream. as eulex is downsized, the importance of the structured dialogue on the rule of law and the weight and importance of the enlargement instrument will be increased. all of these are important elements which i hope very much will ensure that all member states, not just most of them, make it possible for all the countries of the western balkans to achieve their european aspirations.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to begin by thanking ms lunacek for her very detailed and committed work on behalf of parliament. it is very much appreciated. i do not propose to reiterate the points which have been made very comprehensively and very eloquently by my friend štefan füle. i would just say, i suppose in summary, that regional cooperation and particularly good neighbourly relations are absolutely essential elements of the stabilisation and association process, and parties concerned in the western balkans must ensure that any disputes between them do not have a detrimental effect on their shared goal of progress towards european membership. obviously the case of kosovo and of serbia is a work in progress, not without significant challenges. the process is in place, as i said in the earlier debate, so it is key that the two parties do not lose sight of the ultimate goals, the long-term goals of peace and prosperity. i think the best way of achieving that is a successful outcome from the dialogue which is taking place, as we know, today, so that both serbia and kosovo can continue to build momentum on their path towards european integration. that is something that the irish presidency very strongly supports, and we are very hopeful for a positive outcome. thank you to all of the members who have participated not just in this debate but in the previous debate. it has been a long but a very interesting and useful evening from the point of view of the presidency, and thank you very much for your attention and your patience.
the eu has not fully absorbed enlargement operations since 2004, yet it is busy giving a prospect of accession to countries like kosovo. that's far from a sign of good governance. it is one of the reasons why public opinion in the member states is increasingly turning away from the eu. the voters want to see the european union finally drawn into the picture and rightly wonder what the added value of eu membership for kosovo or turkey might be. it will only create new problems. it is a curious paradox that the more the eu is confronted with internal problems (euro crisis, schengen, democratic deficit, lack of transparency and accountability to citizens), the more it wants to become bigger. we need a reality check as soon as possible.
madam president, as rapporteur in the committee on industry, research and industry i would like to focus on the specific issue of the search for oil and gas in the arctic region, which has already been mentioned here. we have all followed the endeavours of shell in alaska that have clearly shown that operations in the arctic are indeed extremely difficult and dangerous for mankind, and for nature of course. many in this house have since called for a moratorium on oil drilling in the arctic waters. we all know, apart from the special case of greenland of course, that the eu does not have any arctic waters. however, commissioner, in the new draft legislation on offshore oil and gas operations that is scheduled for approval here in this house next month, we have introduced a clear obligation for drilling companies to demonstrate that they can effectively respond to oil spills and that they also have to limit their operations when they cannot respond. that is a real legislative obligation that is future-proof and above all it applies a fortiori to potential off-shore drills in the arctic. we are counting on you, commissioner, to support and wholeheartedly spread this legal instrument within the arctic council, hopefully as a soon-to-be permanent observing member, and especially in your international role as a commissioner.
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission's declaration on a year of european citizens' initiatives in practice: evaluating experience and overcoming obstacles (2013/2604 ((rsp)).
i would like to say to the citizens who are sitting over us and listening to us that this is an opportunity that they may have to seize. i would ask them to pay close attention to the analysis we are making of this initiative and i hope that we will use it. i say for this group, there is a group that just left, maybe we say for the next group.
i would like to welcome this new group of european visitors who have just arrived, and i would like to draw their attention to this discussion which concerns them particularly, since the european citizens' initiative is in your hands, or may be in your hands. so pay close attention, it's a tool you can use.
i hope that all our visitors have understood that they are welcome and can present european citizens' initiatives. one million citizens in seven countries. so get on with it! it's a good way to get involved. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission entitled 'completing the scoreboard for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure' by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000039/2013 b7-0165/2013 2013/2582(rsp)).
for the greens/efa group madam president, i could agree with everything sylvie guillaume has just said. commissioner, i am speaking to you. i've heard your fine words, and your comrade olli rehn says nothing else. i don't believe a word of it. you paid for our heads when you adopted the first dashboard. you were supposed to consult us, you didn't. we said it at the time. second edition of the dashboard, you're doing the same thing to us. we agreed to leave codecision to this panel out of trust. you've betrayed that trust twice. we therefore no longer have any confidence in dg ecfin, especially since dg ecfin insists on not including the essential parameters in the scoreboard. for example, on productivity, the only thing they care about is the productivity of work. they forget about energy productivity. they forget about resource productivity. and, as if by chance, they forget the productivity of capital. and, as it happens, inequality is something that, in europe, you don't want to look at. we have 25% of europeans below the poverty line and you prefer to look elsewhere. you don't care about that! i hope that the commission will change its mind and, above all, change its view of reality. we're sitting on a bomb.
in writing. the european parliament gives its consent to the amended agreement on visa facilitation signed by the commission, which ensures easier movement of persons and strengthens links between citizens of ukraine and the european union. these changes will facilitate the free movement of representatives of civil society, non-governmental organisations, journalists and so on. for the people of ukraine, these changes are a testament to the eu's strong commitment to strengthening relations between their country's citizens and those of the eu.
in writing. the future introduction of a visa-free regime for short stays for moldovan citizens travelling to eu countries will strengthen cooperation with the eu and pave the way for a closer relationship with the eu. in view of the european aspirations of the republic of moldova, this amended agreement represents an encouraging step forward and will promote contacts between peoples, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens. facilitating the issuing of visas will reduce the time and costs of preparing for travel to the schengen area. the short-stay visa waiver for specific categories of applicants will not change the conditions of entry and stay of moldovan citizens provided for by the schengen borders code for short stays and by the national law of the member states for long stays. moreover, it does not lead to the absence of controls on the conditions of entry and residence. the citizens of moldova will have to justify the purpose and conditions of their trip.
in writing. the response to the crisis must include internationally coordinated multilateral cooperation, both at regional and interregional levels, with a strong human rights approach at its core. although the global economic crisis poses a serious threat to the respect for economic, social and cultural rights, there is no justification for states, regardless of their income level, to fail to respect their obligation to respect fundamental human rights. i would remind you that governments are obliged at all times to guarantee 'essential minimum levels' of social and economic rights necessary for a decent life.
in writing. this report on the proposed regulation of european demographic statistics is both a technical and controversial subject because of its link with the qualified majority voting method in the council. this proposal is technical in nature and aims to harmonise the collection of demographic data. if there is a question about the method of qualified majority voting, the treaty must be amended. the s&d group believes that we should not jeopardise the collection of statistical data by changing international definitions and practices in the context of this regulation. we therefore support the approach of the commission and the council. our aim is to develop a sound basis for the harmonised collection of reliable and comparable demographic data.
in writing. with the adoption of this report, the european parliament announced that it wanted to put an end to the scrapping of european-flagged ships in any place other than safe for workers and environmentally sound facilities, but unfortunately a majority of my colleagues (not me...) refused to see a ship recycling fund set up to be financed by industry! the amendment, which sought to create a demolition fund fund funded by a recycling charge, was rejected by a narrow majority (292 for, 299 against)...
in writing. - i welcome this commission proposal as it tackles the problem of environmentally harmful and unsafe practices in ship-wrecking. in an international transport mode such as shipping, it is essential to seek international regulations. the hong kong convention on safe and environmentally sound recycling, adopted by the international maritime organisation in 2009, is a good step towards addressing the existing problems. however, this will not come into force until 2020, so i welcome this proposal to speed up its entry into force, which calls for, among other things, the scrapping of ships in safe and environmentally sound scrapyards. the rapporteur's call for a financing mechanism for the environmentally sound recycling of ships goes too far. the port authorities in the member states would be obliged to levy a recycling charge on ships. such a measure contradicts the fact that only an international regulation makes sense in such a sector and adds to the administrative burden of ports. even more problematic is the risk that ships will be more likely to call at ports outside europe to avoid this levy. such levies should therefore be imposed on the owner and should be paid into a fund managed internationally, such as the imo, on any further sale of the ship.
in writing. the signal sent this afternoon by the european parliament, which succumbed to the sirens of the shipowners, is regrettable, even worse, and shameful. we've all seen these images. large european ships stranded on the shores of southeast asia, india, china and especially bangladesh. huge, breathless, living carcasses, dismembered in catastrophic environmental and sanitary conditions. tons and tons of steel, but mostly chemical poisons: asbestos, pvc, pcb, cfc, oil sludge, heavy metals, gases, electrical waste, and even radioactive... don't throw any more, the cup is full. no wonder ship owners resist any change, their ships yielding twice as much per tonne under these conditions! the european parliament rejected the proposal by 7 votes to 7. this fund, which was financed by the owners of large ships, was intended to finance 'clean' recycling. the polluter pays principle is fine, but not for us! so we may well see for a long time to come that 90% of our ships will change flags at a few knots in the break to escape our stricter legislation and go to die elsewhere. what a price!
in writing. due to the multiplicity of hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship leaving the european union for dismantling is hazardous waste and therefore can currently only be legally dismantled within the oecd. however, this legislation is circumvented in an almost systematic way. in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were actually dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), using the 'sand-by' method and with considerable environmental and health consequences. this report highlights four priorities. (a) a financial mechanism to finance environmentally friendly ship recycling; (b) an inventory of dangerous materials for all ships calling at ports of the union; (c) a ship recycling plan for all eu ships going for recycling or over 20 years old, to be approved by the competent authorities; (d) more explicit criteria for ship recycling facilities, including the exclusion of landing, and the regular verification and inspection of such facilities; (e) criminal sanctions for certain infringements.
in writing. − croatia is on the verge of joining the eu. reforms are being pursued, discrimination and corruption are being tackled. croatia has sufficiently demonstrated its continued commitment to this. it is crucial for serbia that the dialogue with kosovo should result in an agreement before serbia can be granted candidate status. i approved this resolution. the lessons to be learned from the accession process with croatia are clear. given the difficult relationship between croatia, bosnia and serbia, we must now ensure that croatia will not be able to block the negotiations with serbia and bosnia on the basis of improper grounds. i therefore call on the european commission to work quickly on an eu arbitration mechanism. slovenia blocked negotiations with croatia on several occasions because of a border conflict and a conflict over the funds of croatian savers in a slovenian bank from the time of the yugoslav civil war. an arbitration mechanism could remedy that in the future.
in writing. the s&d rapporteur was very satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee on foreign affairs on the report on croatia. the vote in plenary follows the publication by the european commission of its march 2013 report giving the green light for croatia's accession to the eu in july. the socialists & democrats look forward to welcoming croatia as the 28th member of the eu as of 1 july 2013. given the implementation by the croatian government of the 10 specific tasks indicated in the overall follow-up report published by the commission in october 2012, the s&d rapporteur is confident in the strength and maturity of croatia's democracy and social market, its adherence to european values and its ability to fulfil the obligations inherent in its status as a member state.
in writing. i abstained this afternoon in the vote on the progress made by turkey. our annual report for 2012 is like the previous ones: a litany of articles, this time 57 of them, which congratulate, underline, observe, insist, encourage... and at times, worry or even complain! we must stop the hypocrisy, our turkish partner is better than this imbutable salmigondis. the real question today, exactly 50 years after the association agreement was signed, is whether or not the two partners really want to get married. what if, in 1963, the six european leaders of the time had not done better by refraining from using the footnote "...with a view to accession". make no mistake, to favour all other forms of partnership. asking the question is not an insult to the turks. quite the opposite. and everyone knows that on the other side of the bosphorus, we are asking the exact same question. and for many years. as far as i am concerned, it is impossible for me to vote on this report exactly three days after fazil say's sentencing to prison. pianist, free spirit... and fierce opponent of islamists, and the akp. we're not compromising our core values.
in writing. this report reflects the s&d group's support for the commission's positive approach to relations with turkey as a complementary context to the accession negotiations. the report also welcomes the opening of peace negotiations between the turkish government and the leader of the kurdistan workers' party (pkk), abdullah öcalan. the report also makes clear the urgent need for turkey to work in an inclusive manner in the preparation of its new constitution, which must consolidate democracy and reflect the pluralism and diversity of society.
in writing. the european parliament welcomed the opening of eu accession negotiations with montenegro in june, calling for the opening of the first chapters as soon as possible, provided that the reform process continues and concrete results are achieved. the ep stresses the country's progress in european integration and encourages the authorities to pursue reforms... while stressing the need for progress in the fight against corruption, conflicts of interest, the informal economy and organised crime. the ep also called for the strengthening of the judicial independence and integrity and accountability of the judiciary, and the establishment of a 'professional, efficient, merit-based and impartial public administration'.
in writing. the s&d group and the rapporteur both reiterated their call on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without further delay. the s&d group supports a political agreement which could end the impasse as evidenced by recent political developments in the country. the s&d group calls on all parties to continue the political dialogue and stresses the need for broad, all-party support and respect for the eu timetable.
in writing. the european parliament expressed its strong conviction that june 2013 is a realistic target for the start of serbia's accession negotiations, urging it to pursue its democratic, systemic and socio-economic reforms. the resolution adopted underlines that the opening of these negotiations will be possible as soon as the key priorities are satisfactorily addressed and the reform process continues. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the ep also called for efforts to be made in structural economic reforms, linked to improving the business environment, fighting unemployment and the sustainable management of natural resources.
in writing. the s&d group and the rapporteur both reiterated their call on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without further delay. the s&d group supports a political agreement which could end the impasse as evidenced by recent political developments in the country. the s&d group calls on all parties to continue the political dialogue and stresses the need for broad support from all parties and respect for the eu timetable.
in writing. i welcome the possibility of concluding a stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. the european parliament called on pristina to make efforts to ensure that the agreement could be signed. we consider this signature to be an important step towards european integration. in the resolution adopted, the ep called on the kosovo authorities to achieve the short-term priority objectives for the opening of negotiations on the agreement in the areas of the rule of law, minorities, trade and administrative capacity building. parliament was concerned at the lack of significant progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the ep also called on the five member states which have not recognised kosovo to do so!
in writing. - i regret that the negotiations between kosovo and serbia broke down for the umpteenth time last night and i hope that an agreement will be reached between serbia and kosovo. this is crucial for the stability of the region and the progress of the accession process with both countries. let us make sure that both heads of government can leap over their own shadows, however difficult that may be. they now have the opportunity to make history and make the decision that will benefit the people of both countries. i was very convinced that this resolution was right, also because of the call to the five eu member states which have not yet recognised kosovo's independence to do so.
in writing. the european plan is facing strong opposition in serbia, where kosovo is considered the cradle of the serbian nation and the orthodox faith. the rejection of the proposal would jeopardise the opening of negotiations on belgrade's accession to the european union. however, the european authorities welcomed the initiative and noted that significant progress had been made. we can only encourage them in this positive way of improving the living conditions of their fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and would like to stress in particular with the rapporteur that it is very regrettable that parliament did not receive the relevant information until a few days before the commission published the scoreboard in november 2012. in the same vein, i ask the commission to inform parliament and the council sufficiently in advance if it intends to update the scoreboard again by 2015. i also regret that the cultural change which is essential to the recognition of the role of parliament in the field of economic governance is still not taking place within the commission's departments.
author. - mr president, some countries present extremely contrasting images. indeed, when you think of vietnam, you think of a country with a fairly thriving economy, with beaches that are absolutely paradise. then, when we receive the report of the international federation of human rights leagues (fidh), published last february, we do indeed come across things that are violent for us, that is to say the fact that freedom of expression, which is at the very heart of democracy, is completely violated. my colleagues have called him back. bloggers, activists, environmentalists, etc. - there are countless others who are now threatened by the regime. is there no way out? first of all, i would like to say that vietnam submitted to the periodic review of the un human rights council in 2009, but unfortunately it has still not implemented the recommendations of this review. it is a weapon we hold and we hold it all the more so as vietnam is vying for a seat on the human rights council for the period after 2014. i believe that this resolution should prompt it to review its human rights policy accordingly.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my colleagues have expressed the difficulty of this case. everyone said kazakhstan is an important country. it's an important country for peace. it is an important country for europe. it has an extremely impressive energy resource. it is also a country that has accustomed us to eurovision, to football, probably to the international exhibition of 2017, which he took from my city of liège, which was in competition with astana. you understand that it was not liège that won... so it's a very strong country. as for the tone of this resolution, i am surprised when people say that we have gone a little too far, because i do not think we have gone far enough. the tone is decidedly positive. i share the concern and the concern expressed by my colleagues about the cases of prisoners who have probably been unjustly sentenced, but i say: one question: how should we do it? i read a lot of positive things: the venice commission, the request for a human rights monitoring body, and that is very good! so we have approached kazakhstan today in a positive way. well, we shall see what happens and i assure you that this is probably not the last time we will adopt a resolution on this great country which is a rich country.
author. - mr president, it is true that at the very moment when america is burying the dead of the boston massacre, we cannot speak of guantánamo lightly, but it is probably the time or never to speak of it. we have been reminded that for the past 11 years, prisoners have been held in this prison in conditions that we know are unlawful. i remember elmar brok, after a visit to guantanamo, absolutely freaked out, saying, "i saw the wrong thing". and we were in afet at the time. i'll make this very simple. i would like to remind you of a memory that, for me, was a terrible memory, the trial of anders breivik, the murderer who perpetrated the oslo massacre in july 2012. remember - you all certainly have it in mind - the rigor of this trial, its dignity. remember also that incredible gesture for us of the two prosecutors who, accompanied by the four psychiatrists, went to shake the hand of the guilty, because he had to be treated like any other guilty. i believe that this ethical rigor, this legal force, is the only way we can fight terrorism. this is how you get out of it, with dignity. and that's why i'm calling for justice in guantanamo and elsewhere. that terrorism be dealt with without violations of human rights. that every suspect, innocent but possibly guilty, be given his right to a defense and his dignity. if we do not do this, terrorism will be the one to defeat us. i want to say today how much i stand with the americans, who frankly did not deserve, in this boston marathon, what happened to them. but i would also like to see obama in guantanamo able to keep his promises that are being thwarted by congress and that europe has the generosity and intelligence to help him welcome some of these detainees who have not yet been charged and who should be released. (the author agrees to answer a blue-card question) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i thank mr martin for his question. it is not the game of terror, it is the idea that a compromise was needed on the subject and that compromise is the best way we can work in this parliament. i think we could have voted, but since my colleagues in the epp group did not want to do so, i proposed to hannes swoboda this compromise, which means that there will be a vote afterwards and i think that, in any case, we know very well what we have to do with guantánamo.
mr president, in fact, in recital n it is said, in relation to mrs ashton's visit to central asia and kazakhstan, that after that she made no statement. whereas she did not issue any statement on the matter. i did find a statement, but it's dated december 2012, just after. so, in order not to think that she did not speak out on the matter, what i propose is to simply add after on the matter during her visit but subsequently in december 2012. she therefore did not make a statement during her visit but in december 2012. it's absolutely factual.
as rapporteur, but especially on behalf of the epp group, i would like to ask that the vote on the reports on banking supervision and the eba be continued on wednesday, as scheduled in the original preliminary draft agenda. it is important to keep that mood and not just debate it this week. this is a signal to the real world that we are serious about this banking union, that we still have a sense of urgency in this parliament and that we are working hard and wanting to make progress. i know that there are good reasons for postponing the final vote, but we can look at that on wednesday, once we have secured the package of amendments. at that point i shall ask for the final vote to be postponed. we are therefore trying to put pressure on the european central bank, because we want to conclude a serious interinstitutional agreement. it is very important for all the groups that there be a good basis for liability. secondly, it also gives us a blow to the council, which has to wait for one more member state for the sake of a constitutional procedure before it can decide unanimously. it's how we can make the outside world understand: we feel it is urgent, we want to continue. and politically we are still holding a brace for the two reasons i have mentioned.
mr president, i agree with what ms thyssen has proposed if it is very clear that we have no final vote on wednesday.
that was the agreement reached between the people who have followed this dossier closely and worked together in a very constructive way. it was agreed that the vote on the package of amendments would be held and that they would be secured, but that the final vote would not take place on wednesday.
mr president, as i said, it depends on the coordinators. i have asked mr gauzès to see the coordinators and then to make an agreement. i presume ms thyssen is now reflecting on what the coordinators have decided. in any case my coordinators and shadows are in favour of the request, and i have no problem with it.
in writing. renewable energy is the future. fossil fuels are finite, incompatible with our climate goals, and they're racking up the bills. investing in renewable energy is, as the commission points out, a 'no regret' option: it always pays off. our infrastructure is also outdated, and the existing installations and network are in need of replacement. whether we choose to replicate the current situation or to build a system based on renewable energy, the costs are the same. so the choice is obvious. it is, however, five minutes to midnight. a project has a start-up time of up to 10 years and an average lifespan of 30 to 40 years. so the right investments must start now. the european level has a very important role to play in this respect. the eu will have to take the initiative to implement key projects. it also needs to support and encourage the private sector and the member states to take action. binding and ambitious objectives are essential for this. in the medium term, by 2030, we need to get to 45% renewable energy, so that the trend is set towards a fully renewable energy-based system by 2050.
- i'm the reporter. - we are all satisfied that we have been able to complete this process, that we now have new, better rules for the safety of oil and gas drilling in european waters and, above all, that we are learning timely lessons from the deepwater horizon oil rig incident in the gulf of mexico. that incident has demonstrated in a very painful way that there was a lack of proper risk assessment in the us, that there was poor safety management and a lack of operational contingency plans. we are rightly drawing lessons from this in the european union. oil and gas, as was also shown in the previous debate on mr reul's report, will remain essential for our energy supply for several decades to come. the extraction of oil and gas in european waters is of great importance from the point of view of our energy independence and will remain so for a long time. but drilling is increasingly taking place in more extreme conditions, increasingly further north and also deeper, sometimes as far as two or three kilometres below sea level. the risks of an accident or incident are thereby increased. that is one of the main reasons why we have made these additional security measures work as quickly as possible through a first reading. the directive is, first and foremost, a directive which sets the highest standards in risk management. the standard we are setting now can serve as an example to the world. but it's not just about risk prevention, it's also about the contingency plans that companies need to have in place. that is of course essential in the event of an incident. this new regulatory framework requires companies to review their emergency plans before the start of the activity to test whether those emergency plans are operational in the event of an incident. a very important aspect is that there are strict provisions on the financial capacity of oil and gas operators, so that those who want to get started, even in extreme circumstances, have the technical and financial capacity to cope with the ecological and economic consequences of a possible incident. another important element: public consultation. it is obvious that if we want to maintain public support for oil and gas drilling in eu waters, we must involve public opinion. this has not been the case in all cases to date and it is good that these new rules ensure that in all cases of oil and gas exploration, and indeed production, the public is closely involved and consulted in all member states. another important element: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. mandatory reporting will enable those companies and us as a public authority to learn from accidents involving eu operators outside the european union. that too is a very important step forward. and finally - but i assume that will be discussed later in the debate - the arctic. we all know that we do not have eu waters in the arctic today, so it is obviously difficult in this context to push for a moratorium on oil and gas drilling in that area. we have agreed with the commission and the member states to make maximum efforts in the arctic council. we have gone for the concrete measures that are tangible and achievable. in any event, and this is crucial, european operators considering drilling in the arctic will have to demonstrate that they are able to carry out their contingency plans in all weather conditions, including in that area. if not, then of course they will have to abandon these drilling. but as i said, i assume that will be brought up in the debate. i look forward to hearing the reactions and to the debate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too could imagine even more far-reaching requirements for technical standards and safety. but the current system gives us a better quality for the safety of our european waters. it is an important step towards a european understanding of the safety of offshore oil and gas production. since the main resources in the north sea, the north atlantic, the black sea and the mediterranean each concern several member states of the european union, european legislation is the right way to go. we shall not stop working if you adopt these proposals. it is important that member states apply and implement this system fully, that any possible circumvention and abuse is avoided and that independent control authorities exercise strict controls. what will we do as a commission? we will certainly take up and export these safety standards in our discussions with the opec countries - libya, algeria - with our immediate neighbours in the context of our neighbourhood strategy - ukraine - with our partners worldwide - the usa and others - and recommend them to others, to our partners, to our neighbours - in other words, to all those who are important to us in terms of indivisible waters or high technical know-how. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i think that this is an important step towards europeanising our security philosophy for oil and gas production in europe. commission statement with regard to article 41 of directive 2013/.../eu of the european parliament and of the council on safety of offshore oil and gas operations and amending directive 2004/35/ec the commission regrets that under article 41 (3) and (5) some member states are partially exempted from the obligation to transpose the directive and considers that such derogations should not be regarded as a precedent in order not to affect the integrity of eu law. the commission notes that member states may use the option not to transpose and apply article 20 of the directive because of the current absence of any company registered in their jurisdiction which has offshore activities outside the territory of the union. in order to ensure effective enforcement of this directive, the commission underlines that it is incumbent on these member states to ensure that companies already registered with them do not circumvent the objectives of the directive by extending their business objects to include offshore activities without notifying the competent national authorities of this extension so that they can take the necessary steps to ensure full application of article 20. the commission will take all necessary measures against any circumvention which may be brought to its attention.
- i'm the reporter. - three points to finish. as the commissioner rightly pointed out, perfection is often the enemy of good. these rules are the maximum steps we can take to ensure maximum protection for workers and the environment. that is ultimately the best way, as mr kelly has also said, to maintain the social support for offshore drilling. it is indeed now up to national governments and the independent control authorities in the member states to implement those rules and ensure that they are enforced on the ground. as far as the arctic is concerned, we do not put a damper on the sea with slogans. there is an amendment on the table tomorrow to say that the european union should not issue licences to companies wishing to explore and produce in the arctic. unfortunately, we do not have that power today, so that is not legally in question. much more important is - and mr hall has pointed this out - the principle of oil spill response effectiveness, that is, the effectiveness of responding effectively to any incidents. this is embedded in this directive, and it is not a slogan, but a concrete and effective instrument to protect vulnerable areas better. finally, i can only thank you, commissioner, first and foremost, for the excellent cooperation with your services. you have a great staff, and it's a pleasure to work with them. thank you very much for that. i would also like to thank the cypriot and irish presidencies, although they are not here. finally, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, mr paleckis and mr lichtenberger, and the shadow rapporteurs, mr skinner, mr hall, mr ford and mr rivasi. despite the fact that we have often disagreed - for some the glass is always half empty, for us it is indeed half full - we are taking a big step forward today and tomorrow in the interests of both the workers and the environment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 may 2013 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150).
i welcome mrs mizzi, who is speaking for the first time in this house. we welcome him.
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by marije cornelissen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the rights of women in the balkan candidate countries (2012/2255(ini)) (a7-0136/2013)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am very grateful to renate weber for her report and to the honourable members tonight for the views they have expressed during this debate. i am looking forward to the vote tomorrow, for if the final result reflects the tenor of this debate then the prospects are positive. the report is a crucial contribution to our in-depth reflection on how to ensure respect for media freedom and pluralism across europe – and, as we saw last week in the united states, for example, it is not only in europe that societies face big challenges in relation to the appropriate protection of journalistic freedom. this is not the first time we have discussed threats to press freedom in this house. the issue has rightly been referred to as one of the basic elements of our democracy, and the point has been made to the commission that if a country is not dealing appropriately with these fundamental matters, there is a need for intervention. i could not agree more; but to intervene you need instruments, a definition of responsibilities and opportunities, and these are the matters we are now really starting to debate. so i am glad that this time we have to hand a clear report, with proposals for concrete action, enabling us to have a principled debate with member states and all the stakeholders. however, in order to decide which actions need to be taken and by whom, we require three things. the first is clarity about eu competences, for you need competences in order to act; the second is reflection on how best to use the competences; and the third is the member states’ political will to play their part. i am pleased that the irish presidency has shown commitment on this issue, and i sincerely hope that the incoming lithuanian presidency will build on that. as you know, some time ago i set up an independent high-level group chaired by professor vaira vīķe-freiberga, the former president of latvia, to reflect on the underlying issues related to media freedom and pluralism, and earlier this year the group delivered a comprehensive report with 30 recommendations, some of which are similar to what you propose, ms weber, in your report. i would like to point out that we are already acting on some of the areas addressed both in the recommendations of the independent high-level group and in the weber report. for instance, we are about to allocate a grant to implement the media pluralism monitoring tool in 2013 on the basis of a budget allocated by you. this tool will give us a much more coherent overview of where pluralism is under threat across europe. at the same time we are working on implementation of a pilot project for a european centre for press and media freedom. we plan to launch a call for proposals very soon. other potential actions in the area of media freedom and pluralism require broad consultation with all the relevant stakeholders. that is why i recently launched two public consultations: the first to gather feedback on all the recommendations of the high-level group report, and the second, more specifically, to collect views on the independence of regulatory bodies responsible for audiovisual media services, including the question of a possible revision of article 30 of the audiovisual media services directive. so the timing of the report by renate weber, just when we need input into the discussion, could not be better, and it is most welcome. after we close the consultation in mid-june we will have an even better overview of what exactly we need to do. i hope, mr president, not only that we will soon have another occasion to discuss specific actions but also that we will see concrete results in our efforts to defend media freedom – that is something which unites this house and the commission.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, media pluralism stands or falls with media ownership. the concentration of media in one hand is always and everywhere a negative for democracy. that is why transparency of media ownership is so important and is an essential part of this report. we are counting on the european commission to come forward with a concrete instrument for measurement and control. but media freedom is also fundamentally linked to journalistic ethics. pluralism does not mean that the media, the journalists, have a free hand to do or not do what they want. recent developments in the united kingdom and other countries have shown that member states need to establish an independent media council, which can deal efficiently with citizens' complaints about the media and, if necessary, also make amends.
mr president, as the rapporteur has said, pensions are primarily a matter for the member states, with their own specificities. but it is important for us to make recommendations on a difficult subject in a complex context of crisis, and i will highlight some points which are important for our group. first, the first pillar, which is fundamental to solidarity, must be the cornerstone of pension systems and ensure more than a minimum pension, namely a decent income. secondly, the second pillar can make a contribution, but cannot be a prerequisite for achieving this objective. the third pillar can only be favoured for the lowest incomes and incomplete careers. the employment rate is obviously the fundamental aspect of pension funding and it must be promoted, not only for the elderly but also for the young, so that they contribute to the system. furthermore, any reform of the legal retirement age can only be carried out after the appropriateness of the reform has been assessed with the social partners and cannot be linked to life expectancy. finally, i would say that, although it is obviously not a socialist report, as it would have been written in our group alone, it is a good compromise and i would like to thank the rapporteur for it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am wondering whether tomorrow’s european council – a european council of two hours – will be of any use. it would be better and easier to do it by teleconference, rather than having all of them travel for a two-hour meeting at the same as the plenary session of the european parliament. we have to protest against the fact that yet again the european council is meeting at the same time as a plenary session of the european parliament. secondly, what we need is more than words; what we need is action. my proposal is that they cancel tomorrow’s european council and hold a real ecofin meeting of the ministers of finance so that they can decide on concrete legislation concerning a blacklist of tax havens in europe, a common corporate tax base – which we still do not have in europe – and tax evasion. because let us be honest, we already know what conclusions they will draw tomorrow – we have seen them twice already, in the 2010 and 2011 european councils. we go on repeating the same things every time: conclusions, conclusions. we would be better served by holding an ecofin council and having the ministers of finance talking about things in a concrete way. maybe if the european council has to talk about other issues, perhaps they can talk a bit about the growing euroscepticism in europe, because that has to be a concern for all europeans and for this parliament. let us be clear – there is one aspect where we have to recognise that the eurosceptics are right: the european leaders have managed this crisis in a terrible way, and that is the problem. but where the eurosceptics are wrong – and that should be the answer of the european council – is in their conclusions, their solutions. because it is not by going back to the nation-state and by dismantling the european union that we will regain competitiveness in europe, and it is not by claiming that everything was better in the good old days that we will provide jobs for our young people in the coming months and years. it is certainly not by closing the doors of the single market that our economy will grow. i think the british business leaders yesterday got it absolutely right: they said very loud and clear, mr callanan, to you and to others, that it would be an economic disaster to leave the european union. it is not this parliament, with all its pro-europeans that you do not like, that is saying that, it is your own business leaders who are saying you are nuts to even try leave the european union for these economic reasons. it is not even only a question of economics; it is also a question of sovereignty. what do we want in this european union? that is the question for tomorrow in the european council: should we together shape the world we live in or do like mr farage? every time i see him on television, he is in a pub commenting on the outside world and saying the old days were better than today. i do not know what he is doing in the pub all the time. so that is the key question for tomorrow: relevance with the european union or irrelevance outside?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - commissioner šemeta will have made a greater contribution to the fight against this kind of fraud in the five minutes he has spoken than the 27 heads of state or government will do tomorrow. the numbers speak for themselves. they were mentioned several times in the debate. the figures are enormous, they are as large as the multiannual budget being negotiated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. and indeed, i agree with mr verhofstadt, the council meeting tomorrow is a farce. the 28 will speak for two hours with a speaking time of four minutes each. so we can ask ourselves: how real is the will to do something about this kind of fraud? the committee on budgetary control has focused on vat fraud and vat carousel fraud, which still account for a hundred billion euros a year. and the reluctance of the member states is also clear in this dossier. for several years now, a number of council directives have been on the council's table without discussion, one on a rapid reaction mechanism against vat fraud, the other on the transfer of the rules on goods liable to vat fraud. the recommendations of mr šemeta are serious, and the recommendations to the member states are also very serious. the member states can put their hands to the wheel, but then they must also act. and so, member states, you must approve this amended savings directive without delay. deploy sufficient expertise, staff and budget to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. finally, should we not also consider taxing where economic activity actually takes place? that would be a big step forward.
mr president, mrs creighton, i do not forget that since the beginning of this parliament it has been the member states, the council, which have blocked or tried to block any progress on the fiscal front, whether it be proposed by the commission or by parliament, whether it be the financial transaction tax, the consolidated corporate tax base, accounting transparency or the definition of a tax haven which i tried to include in the report on venture capital funds. each time the council has said no! no, you can't! i am therefore amused to see that it takes the oecd, the offshore leaks operation, the cahuzac case for the council to say: 'oh, there is tax evasion! something has to be done"... let me tell you, i'd gladly trade a ton of your manly statements for a few pounds of concrete action. we're waiting for you. the ecofin council last week failed miserably in failing to reach agreement on the automatic exchange of information. it is in the interest of the heads of state and government that tomorrow they take the necessary decisions. the european union cannot emerge from the crisis without restoring fiscal justice.
it is of course very good that the council is considering measures to tackle this estimated €1 000 billion of tax fraud in our member states. it is only to be hoped that these measures will one day be accompanied by a simplification of the tax systems in our member states and a drastic reduction in the tax burden on citizens and businesses in our member states, but that is another story. what is totally inappropriate, however, is the moralizing tone that is being used here in this institution and also in other european institutions when it comes to tax evasion and even tax optimisation. the many tens of thousands of civil servants, up to and including members of parliament and commissioners of the european union, have created for themselves a kind of 28th member state, their own internal tax haven of people like us who are paid handsomely by the european taxpayers, but who themselves pay only a minimal tax compared to normal tax rates. let's get a little sweep on our own doorstep.
there has been a lot of debate this morning about fair taxation, and that is also very important. if we want to create a further future for the european union, fair taxation is a way of ensuring that we can invest in the future. and that brings me to the second subject of the council, namely energy. the energy challenges are enormous. we could see that as a big threat: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but we can also see it as a great opportunity. if we do what we have to do, we can make a lot of investment in the energy sector and we will create jobs for a lot of young europeans and others, of course. the commission itself has set the stage with its so-called 'no regret' options in the roadmap 2050. if the council now decided to make a radical use of those 'no regret' options, to invest in infrastructure - and this will be necessary - from the european and national budgets. two, go with renewable energy. not all the possible interim solutions, but choosing renewable energy and adapting the infrastructures to it. and finally , energy efficiency. if you want to make a real quick win in the european union, you have to do it. you have to give member states and europe the ability to invest massively in energy efficiency and that brings millions and millions of jobs. this is how you tackle both the socio-economic and the climate challenges. i hope that the council will have the courage to take such decisions tomorrow.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on the agreement between the european union and sri lanka on certain aspects of air services. this decision is a sign of closer cooperation with sri lanka and also creates a sound legal basis for bilateral agreements between a few member countries and sri lanka. the commission therefore concludes that the compensation granted to ryanair for the services it provides to ryanair is compatible with the internal market. now any air carrier wishing to operate between sri lanka and a member state will be able to do so, provided of course that a bilateral agreement has already been concluded between that member state and sri lanka and that traffic rights are also available. i am sure that this will have a positive impact on our economies and on tourism.
in writing. the eu-sri lanka agreement on certain aspects of air services will strengthen the eu-sri lanka bilateral relations in the field of aviation. the european designation clause will enable all community air carriers to enjoy non-discriminatory access to air services between the union and sri lanka and bilateral air services agreements will be in accordance with european union law. this agreement could be a factor for economic growth in the air sector and for the development of tourism between the member states and sri lanka.
in writing. international relations in the field of air transport between member states and third countries are traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements. these bilateral agreements contain a 'designation clause' which allows a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the licences or authorisations of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that this traditional designation clause was contrary to eu law. this was found to be discriminatory against community carriers established in the territory of one member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states and to be in breach of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in the present case, sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which need to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the union.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on enhanced cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation. since 2004, the aim of european leaders has been to create a 'single european sky' that would allow for the optimal use of airspace. by strengthening its cooperation with the european organisation for the safety of air navigation (eurocontrol), the european union is taking a further step towards the effective implementation of the euc project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the committee also wants to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. closer cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of european navigation will advance the implementation of the single european sky, launched in 2004 but still not completed. the fragmentation of european airspace has significant negative impacts on airspace users and the environment. the single management of european airspace is therefore essential to meet future needs in terms of aviation capacity and safety and to ensure the quality of air services provided to european citizens.
in writing. i believe that the agreement will help to ensure the continued implementation of the single european sky and recommend that the european parliament endorse its conclusion. first, the agreement confirms eurocontrol as the technical and operational body of the union in the development and implementation of the eusc; it shall set out the areas of cooperation and define the forms and mechanisms thereof and shall aim to generate synergies with the european aviation safety agency (easa) and to avoid unnecessary duplication of its work on safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues. it is also proposed to set up a joint committee to be responsible for the management and operation of the agreement. this committee would have the power to adopt and amend the annexes to the agreement.
in writing. the new regulation aims to confirm the european university institute (eui) in florence in its role as manager of the eu archives. it thus confirms a factual situation, since the majority of the institutions which have made their archives available to the public already entrusted them to the eui. the filing of paper archives at the eui is now compulsory for all eu institutions and bodies, except the court of justice and the european central bank. the archives are an essential source of information for anyone interested in the history of european union integration. they are a testimony to the influence of the institutions. they have a cultural and educational aspect. they reflect the evolution of our societies. the fact that they are made compulsory for filing with the eui is a gesture of transparency and good interinstitutional cooperation. in this context, i fully support the new regulation which encourages the eu institutions to move towards digitisation. digitisation has undeniable advantages such as preservation of documents, storage, easy consultation, etc. it is an indispensable tool for work in our time and for the future.
in writing. the suggested cost-sharing approach is based on the criterion that the level of contribution will be proportional "to the size of the different headcount tables of the depositing institutions". this criterion seems to be quite advantageous for the european parliament, since, despite its size, it will not make a very large financial contribution, although it is likely to deposit a large amount of historical archives. i am glad that it takes account of the current realities of the digital archiving process, which is not uniform from one institution of the union to another. in addition, as archives in europe are currently facing the challenges of the digital age, the proposal encourages the union institutions to move towards digitisation. as regards the sensitive issue of data protection, i am also pleased that the proposal clarifies the rules applicable to archives. in the event that personal data remain in the archives, the proposal emphasises the role of the eui as a 'sub-processor' of personal data within the meaning of the regulation, acting on the instructions of the depositing institutions of the union.
in writing. i fully share the position expressed in the report by mr carlo casini that the date of the next elections should be moved from thursday 22 june to sunday 25 may 2014 in order to avoid them being held during a school holiday period in many member states. the european parliament is the body that represents all the citizens of the european union. it is therefore of the utmost importance that these elections are not held on a date which could have a negative impact on the turnout in these elections.
in writing. this report responds to a request for consultation by the council on a draft decision to amend the electoral period, which should normally apply at the next european elections, namely in accordance with article 11 (2) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage (the 'electoral act') from thursday 5 to sunday 8 june 2014, by reference to the dates on which the first elections by direct universal suffrage were held (from thursday 9 to sunday 12 june 1979). taking into account that the long weekend of pentecost corresponds in the majority of the member states to the dates normally applicable, the council considered that it would be preferable to move them forward by proposing to set the electoral period as follows: from thursday 22 to sunday 25 may 2014. the important thing, as far as i know, is that the citizen is in the best possible condition to vote.
in writing. mr albertini took office as a member of the italian senate on 15 march 2013; article 9 of the protocol shall no longer apply to him. the office of member of the italian senate is incompatible with the office of member of the european parliament, pursuant to article 7 (2) of the 1976 law on direct elections. we have therefore followed the committee on legal affairs which, after examining the arguments for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, recommends that the european parliament does not uphold the parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini.
in writing. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible legal action to challenge an alleged breach of the law consisting in falsely accusing a third party of having committed an illegal act with the intention of being prosecuted for that act, and in making false statements about a third party which could damage the reputation and renown of that party, knowing that the statement was false. the alleged false statements and accusations concern the sale of olive and other trees harvested from land expropriated by a public works contractor in the context of the construction of a dam in the municipality of hersonissos, in the prefecture of heraklion, of which spyros danellis was mayor. the acts complained of do not constitute an opinion or vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. let justice be done
in writing. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible legal action to challenge an alleged breach of the law consisting in falsely accusing a third party of having committed an illegal act with the intention of being prosecuted for that act, and in making false statements about a third party which could damage the reputation and renown of that party, knowing that the statement was false. the alleged false statements and accusations concern the sale of olive and other trees harvested from land expropriated by a public works contractor in the context of the construction of a dam in the municipality of hersonissos, in the prefecture of heraklion, of which spyros danellis was mayor. the acts complained of do not constitute an opinion or vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. let justice be done.
in writing. i agree with the ideas in the report by mr klaus-heiner lehne on takeover bids. acquisition activities are highly dependent on financial and economic developments. we cannot therefore assess accurately and correctly the application of the directive in the member states, since the date of transposition of the directive coincided with the beginning of the financial crisis. it has grown and spread to the real economy, affecting all countries and all sectors.
in writing. i note that after decades of failed attempts, the directive was finally adopted at second reading by the european parliament at the end of 2003 and published in the official journal in april 2004. member states had until may 2006 to transpose the provisions of the directive into national law. it is a pity that the date of transposition of the directive coincided with the beginning of the crisis. in the light of these observations, i believe that the application of the directive cannot be properly assessed on the basis of the limited data available. i therefore believe that more relevant data are needed not only to establish the need to amend the directive but also to define precisely the next harmonisation measures to be adopted.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on regional strategies for industrial zones in the european union. today, the industrial sector still accounts for 16% of the union's gdp. however, for the last 50 years, this sector has been suffering from a real decline: relocations, social plans, restructurings, etc. there are many examples in europe. the resolution will enable the european union to provide constructive assistance to the oldest industrialised regions, not only by providing public funds but also by providing tools to enable these areas to facilitate their industrial conversion. for while european enlargement has diverted our attention from the new members and the resulting regional disparities, it is imperative that we do not forget these industrial regions which are at the origin of the formation of today's europe and on which many jobs for our fellow europeans still depend.
in writing. the industrial sector is a major asset of the european union. but at the moment this sector, so promising for the union, is suffering the consequences of the crisis and is experiencing a major decline. it represented 20% of the union's gdp before the economic crisis, but now only 16%. the union must solve the deindustrialization problem, which is undoubtedly the major problem in europe, if it is to continue to have a voice on the international scene. europe needs the industrial conversion of former industrial areas more than ever if it is to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. local and territorial authorities need the union to help them with the resources available at community level. special financial attention to regions and cities in difficulty will encourage business creation in these areas, and alleviate the burden of the crisis, while contributing to economic recovery.
in writing. although the industrial sector has been in decline in the european union for the last fifty years, european industry still accounts for about 16% of the union's gdp. however, given the decline of many traditional industries (coal, steel, textiles, machinery, etc.) which once contributed to the prosperity of many regions for several decades, a number of regions in the european union are facing similar problems today. many regions of the european union are therefore dependent on european funding to help them reconvert and restructure their former industrial areas. in this context, it is becoming clear that, in the context of the financial and economic crisis, sectoral policies are not sufficient to achieve the great ambitions of the european industrial policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the support provided by cohesion policy measures is becoming increasingly important. this report looks at the main challenges of structural transformation processes in the formerly industrialised regions of the european union and the role that european cohesion policy can play in this context. the report therefore sets out three main objectives.
in writing. i welcome the work done by mr ivo belet on this report. in recent years we have seen large-scale environmental disasters caused by oil exploration and production. adequate standards and best control practices need to be put in place within the european union in order to reduce offshore oil-related incidents and their devastating and irreversible consequences. the measures envisaged in this report, including the exchange of information and cooperation with third countries, will make it possible to provide rapid and effective assistance in the event of an accident linked to this type of activity that may affect european citizens and the environment of the european union. this report illustrates the european union's determination not to stand idly by and to take action to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.
in writing. on 20 april 2010, the explosion on the deepwater horizon oil rig killed 11 men working on the rig and caused a spill of approximately 4.9 million barrels (780,000 cubic meters) of crude oil. it took 3 months to fill the well and 2 more months to complete the back-up well and be able to declare the well "effectively dead". this is totally unacceptable! the accident also prompted a review of eu policies: the european commission immediately launched an assessment of the safety of offshore oil and gas operations in european waters. it concluded that a clear and up-to-date european framework is needed to apply eu-wide best practices already in place in the regulatory regimes of some eu member states. the proposal for a regulation on the security of offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production activities, presented by the commission to parliament in october 2011, focuses on concrete measures to address the disparities and fragmentation that characterise the overall practices and legislation of member states in the field of offshore oil and gas exploitation.
in writing. − the deployment of renewable energy is vital for europe to become less dependent on oil and gas imports and is a key factor for growth and jobs. so it is good that we have a clear vision for 2030, which creates certainty for industry. but more european coordination is logical and necessary. it is in the interest of all of us to avoid the fact that member states, because of their geographical location, have to subsidize certain renewable energy sources too heavily to make them competitive with conventional fossil energy sources. the development of a fully-fledged european energy market is therefore essential. this is the only way to get renewable energy from one side of europe to the other. the administrative jungle of 170 (!) different subsidy schemes in the various member states must also be simplified.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on renewable energy production in europe. the outlook is that our continent will become increasingly dependent on energy imports to meet domestic demand in the coming years. unlike other countries or continents, we do not have the natural resources to meet our energy needs. it is therefore imperative to define an energy policy which takes into account the following three parameters: security of supply, competitiveness, and economic and environmental sustainability. the completion of the internal energy market by 2014 should promote smes active in renewable energy production. it is europe's duty to provide for measures to compensate for our lack of natural resources. i am therefore pleased with the framework voted in this report which will allow for greater public support for research and development in renewable energy production which i personally would like to see reaching 40 to 45% of our total consumption by 2015.
in writing. − increasing the use of renewable energy is of paramount importance to increase europe's energy independence, to promote sustainability in the eu and to boost the competitiveness of european industry. this is why renewable energy needs to be given special attention in the european energy market. this is the only way for the eu to achieve its target of producing 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. this report is welcome, as it calls for, among other things, the further development of renewable energy infrastructure and draws attention to the uncoordinated cross-border energy flows caused by insufficient network capacity and storage, and insufficient cooperation. it also advocates increasing the social acceptance of renewable energy sources by end-users. the basis for this, in addition to the accessibility of energy from renewable sources, is, in my view, above all, easy-to-understand information for consumers about renewable energies and their uses. this own-initiative report should be limited to reference to already established energy targets and should avoid the introduction of new binding targets for renewable energy by 2030.
in writing. the european union is heavily dependent on energy imports. the promotion of renewable energy is essential to reduce the eu's dependence on third countries, but also to combat climate change and to ensure sustainable economic growth. i voted for the amendment asking the commission to propose a binding eu-wide target for energy from renewable sources by 2030, but i voted against the amendment proposing to set this target between 40 and 45% of energy production because it is not sustainable for belgium.
in writing. addressing the energy challenge is a major challenge for the union. the european union has no choice but to win the battle for energy independence, or else it risks becoming the only net energy importer on the continent, since the united states and canada discovered the oil shale. this is reason enough to support the reul report this afternoon, which stresses the essential role of renewable energies in the energy mix and their contribution to the fight against climate change. this concerns a wide range of energy sources: hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, tidal, wind, biomass, biofuels, which already offer different services in the fields of electricity, heating, cooling and transport, but are unevenly distributed across europe. belgium, for example, is one of the countries with limited room for manoeuvre: no mountains and rivers to invest in hydraulics, little sun to make photovoltaics a dominant energy source. the european union cannot ignore this reality; the principle of unequal access to natural resources should now be a priority criterion to be taken into account by the commission when establishing the share of renewable energy in the union's energy mix for 2030.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the 2020 renewable energy targets for the european union as a whole, as well as for member states, set by the renewable energy directive, have accelerated the uptake of renewable energy in europe, in particular in rural areas. in order to ensure policy continuity and increase investment security, the union should present new objectives for the period after 2020 as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on women's rights in the balkan candidate countries. in theory, it is true that these countries have made enormous progress in this area in order to bring their legislation into line with the eu acquis. however, the reality on the ground is quite different: women in the balkans are still too often victims of sexism, stereotypes and even violence. this resolution promises to make great progress in this field, since, on the one hand, it provides for concrete measures in the application of women's rights, without simply listing the problems, and, on the other hand, it deals with each country individually, taking account of the specific socioeconomic, political and cultural characteristics of the country. this decision should, i hope, enable citizens in the balkans to be better informed about gender equality through awareness campaigns, to increase the employment rate of women, which remains very low in the region, and to effectively combat violence - whether verbal or physical - against women.
in writing. gender equality is something we all want. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the balkan societies remain very patriarchal and therefore much progress remains to be made in this area if the balkan countries want to join the eu. equality between men and women is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights, and a priority policy of the union. it's a matter of human justice. how can we contribute to fair, equitable and sustainable development if half the population does not enjoy the same rights and continues to be discriminated against? gender equality and the empowerment of women are key elements of growth, economic development and sustainable development. this is why strengthened mechanisms need to be put in place to improve the situation of women in the balkan candidate countries and to guarantee gender equality.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the progress made but also some serious obstacles to the promotion of gender equality. for provisions on women's rights and gender equality to be effective, enforcement mechanisms need to be in place. citizens must be aware of their rights and be able to report any discrimination or violation of their rights to an authority, and their complaints must be dealt with in a correct and timely manner in order to be of practical use. the last report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on women's rights and gender equality in the balkan candidate countries dates from 2008. since then, most of the balkan countries have made progress towards eu membership, but at different rates. promoting gender equality is a key element of these processes. not only because women represent half the population of the candidate countries, but also because gender equality is a core value of the union, enshrined in its treaty.
in writing. i welcome the resolution adopted by parliament on standards for media freedom across the european union. the media are - and must remain - the "watchdogs" of our societies, enabling each individual to be properly informed, while giving them the tools to become responsible citizens. freedom and pluralism of the media are therefore two fundamental rights enshrined in the values of the european union. it is imperative that they be respected to the best of our ability, whether we are a member state or a candidate country. this decision not only impacts the media, it also directly impacts the citizen whose right to freedom of expression it guarantees. in this resolution, parliament thus confirms its determination to support the right of every european to be informed fairly and neutrally, democratically and peacefully, of decisions in the public interest. if we do not respect these objectives of media freedom, it is not only our european model that will be affected. it's for our democracy.
in writing. the fundamental rights of citizens to freedom of expression and information can only be guaranteed through a free and pluralistic media. however, on several occasions, journalists and media have been subject to pressure, threats and harassment within the european union itself. some of the greatest threats to media freedom in some member states are the result of recent legislation. the european union and its member states must set an example to ensure their credibility and consistency in condemning practices outside the union. the member states and the union should respect, guarantee, protect and promote the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information and the freedom and pluralism of the media, and refrain from any threat to that freedom. it is important to ensure the independence and protection of journalists. conflicts of interest must be avoided, excessive concentration of media must be prevented and transparency in media ownership must be ensured. freedom of the media remains an issue in europe and common standards should be adopted to guarantee it. a free and accountable press is an indispensable feature of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. journalism is a real source of satisfaction in europe; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. but i must say that in some countries the media cannot express themselves freely. the lack of transparency of media ownership in some states is worrying. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to take initiatives to ensure transparency of media ownership and management, including by requiring audiovisual, print and other similar media to provide national media authorities, company registers and the public with sufficiently accurate and up-to-date information on ownership, to allow the identification of beneficiaries, ultimate owners and co-owners of media bodies, their cvs and means of financing, to transpose it into a single european media register, to identify excessive concentrations in the media, and to prevent organisations from concealing special interests and therefore manipulating the media by removing journalists from their journalistic neutrality.
in writing. − demographic change will bring with it an ageing population, which will present a major challenge to pension systems. this is all the more so given that the financial and economic crisis and the associated public debt and increased unemployment are having a significant impact on pension benefits and thus on the retirement benefits of eu citizens. in order to take account of these developments, urgent adjustments are needed in the pension systems of the member states. the eu commission is considering measures such as the equalization of the retirement age for men and women or the adjustment of the retirement age to the increase in life expectancy. however, it seems to me particularly important that all the measures proposed by the european commission guarantee a decent standard of living and financial independence for older europeans. while i welcome the call for better access to lifelong learning and the development of employment opportunities for older workers, this should not result in making it difficult for europe's older people to enjoy their well-earned retirement in a dignified way with a decent standard of living. this is why measures to combat youth unemployment seem to me to be a better starting point than to demand longer employment for older eu citizens.
in writing. economic, demographic and social developments are putting increasing pressure on our pension systems. the present system shows its limits and will not be able to meet the needs of the growing retirement age population in a few years' time. society is aging, life expectancy is increasing, birth rates are falling. structural reform of pension funding is needed. the economic and social crisis has affected thousands of people. many people rely on pensions, which are the main source of income for older people in europe. the european union must ensure that all its citizens have a decent pension.
in writing. in all the member states of the european union, pension systems are under pressure. life expectancy is increasing, birth rates are falling, young people are entering the labour market later than expected, and the effects of the crisis on the pension system are being felt. although pensions remain a national competence, the european strategy for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions voted this afternoon in plenary is an excellent instrument for initiating discussion and then implementing further reforms. this non-binding own-initiative report aims to reduce the gap between the different pension systems and ensure both their sustainability, solidarity between generations, the principle of equity between members (employees, civil servants, self-employed) and a guarantee of protection for the most deprived. these systems should also help to strengthen labour market mobility and free movement, while providing solutions for today and tomorrow. belgium, like other european countries, is preparing for a second wave of pension reform for the period 2020-2040, after a first reform aimed mainly at extending careers.
in writing. − as a result of increasing life expectancy, europeans enjoy their pensions longer. at the same time, the pressure on their affordability is proportionately increasing. in europe we have different pension systems, but also different levels of participation. for example, in sweden almost 74% of the 55+ age group are in work, in belgium it is barely 40%. pension schemes are primarily the responsibility of the member states, although some coordination is needed and renewal is necessary. i do not always agree with the suggestions in the report by mrs oomen-ruijten. the three-pillar system is being promoted as an ideal, and the rapporteur admits that there is a lack of solidarity among young people. the third pillar - strengthening the pension system - will not solve this problem. the first pillar, which the government itself is responsible for, must remain the most important pillar. a lot of people depend on that income, and it's a buffer against poverty. my other criticism concerns the portability of accumulated pension rights. over the years, the labour market has changed towards greater mobility and flexibility, also beyond national borders. the report states that accumulated pension rights must not be lost. i want them to be portable and paid for.
in writing. pension systems are under pressure. the euro area authorities either save to meet the requirements of the stability and growth pact by balancing their expenditure and income or are forced to take strong measures to reduce excessive deficits. in all the states, there is also talk of an ageing society. the crisis has also put a lesser strain on the so-called second pillar schemes, namely the collective schemes, which provide retirement savings. the european strategy for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for young people and older people, presented in the white paper, is an excellent instrument for initiating discussion and then implementing reforms, notably through soft law, but also through legislation where necessary. we must work together, with due respect for the responsibility of the member states and the social partners, to establish systems which are adequate, safe and sustainable. however, these systems must also contribute to strengthening labour market mobility and free movement, and offer solutions for today and tomorrow.
in writing. - the ageing population, which is increasingly a reality in europe, is too often portrayed in a negative light. the fact that people are living longer today is in itself a positive fact, which we should regard as a fine achievement for man and science. but as policy makers, we cannot be blind to the effects of ageing on our societies. the report sets out the guidelines for the policies to be pursued by the member states in the years ahead. a policy to ensure the affordability of pensions, based on three pillars but with a sufficiently strong first pillar. a policy that does not accept that the elderly end up in poverty. a policy that eliminates unjustified differences between men and women. a policy that fully chooses to activate people, including older workers, to strengthen the resilience of our society. finally, a policy which informs its citizens correctly and thoroughly about what they can expect in their old age and how they can contribute to the most favourable pension. such a policy that embraces and creates the best possible conditions for ageing is forward-looking and responsible. i therefore fully support the report by mrs oomen-ruijten.
- i'm the reporter. − only through results can we regain the trust of people and businesses and promote sustainable growth. the creation of a genuine common european banking supervision, as a fundamental building block of the wider banking union, is a step forward in this direction. we have been asking for it for years and we are therefore pleased to see real progress in the last few months. the sense of urgency has not disappeared and therefore solid progress is needed to strengthen confidence, to make the financial sector stronger and more credible, to provide the economy with the necessary capital and, finally, to better protect savers. the ecb's entry into the role of new supervisor also fulfils a necessary first condition for the recapitalisation of banking institutions directly from the esm. this in turn plays an important role in breaking the vicious circle between the banking and public finance crises. the trialogue agreement on the ssm and the eba legislation was reached in a very democratic way because we were on our toes and because the council and the commission kept their commitment to deal with both texts in one package and to deal with them in full co-decision. it is partly thanks to the constructive cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs that we were able to establish our position in less than 10 weeks and to achieve our initial objectives in full. (1) we will have a credible, efficiently organised single supervisory mechanism (ssm) with the ecb as the centre. (2) we will have a supervisory mechanism that is as close as possible to the proper functioning of the internal market. (3) we get a supervisory mechanism that is mandatory for euro member states and that we make very attractive for the accession of countries that have not yet joined the euro, which translates, among other things, into equal voting rights in the banking supervision council and some opt-out possibilities to compensate for the asymmetric situation. (4) we will have a division of tasks between the ecb and the national supervisory authorities, taking into account subsidiarity, proportionality, practicality and credibility of the system. the ecb will monitor directly the more significant banks and those banks seeking or receiving support from the european emergency funds. in principle, national supervisors will continue to monitor less significant banks, provided that the ecb can at any time take over the supervision of a bank if necessary. the fifth. we have worked particularly hard on the ecb's accountability, because any shift of powers from the national to the european level must be accompanied by adequate accountability at the european level, in particular to the european parliament. the sixth. finally, a realistic timetable for entry into force has been agreed, taking into account the european supervisory authority's capacity to perform those new supervisory tasks in an excellent manner. on wednesday we shall vote on the package of amendments, but we shall not put an end to this dossier. as rapporteur, i shall propose that the final vote on the legislative resolution be postponed until a later part-session. we have another blow to the council, which cannot reach a unanimous final agreement on the agreement on the ssm through a procedure in one member state. it also gives us, as the european parliament, the opportunity to conclude another solid interinstitutional agreement with the ecb on accountability and accountability. this is a matter of the utmost importance for democracy. whether it is parliament's access to documents, our rights of inquiry or our role in the appointment and removal of the president and vice-presidents, we want clear agreements on the practical implementation of these before we close this dossier in plenary. for all these reasons, i hope you will support this outcome of the negotiations and that i can count on your support on wednesday. thank you for your cooperation.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i come from a country, belgium, which has been marked perhaps more than rightly by the banking crises we have experienced. this country is crisscrossed by systemic banking institutions which, of course, are transnational in nature and which are sometimes run outside our borders, when it is not the belgian institutions themselves that influence what happens in central europe, for example; i'm thinking of a bank like kbc. so we know the futility of having a banking regulatory system that is national, when we are working in a single market and with banking institutions that are transnational in nature. we have paid a heavy price, and i can only welcome the initiative initially taken by the council and translated into texts by the commission to set up this first pillar of banking union. so, while the banking union is not the alpha and omega of european integration, certainly not, it is probably the most decisive step the union is taking towards integration, towards an ever closer union between our states and our peoples. in this sense, i am glad that this step has been taken - it is not yet fully achieved, but it is an ambitious step. but there can be no question of a federal leap in europe if it is at the cost of a weakening of democracy, and we know how angry our people are rightly today against a weakening of the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken at both national and european level. from this point of view, it is true that - and i want to echo what sylvie has just said - the architectural choice of placing this integrated supervisory mechanism at the european central bank seems to us somewhat regrettable, in the sense that it is not the best way to achieve an inclusive system for the entire internal market. this is certainly not the best way of applying the famous separation of banking from monetary policy and, finally, it is certainly not the best way of ensuring democratic control of banking supervision - control which must be exercised by the politicians. and from this point of view, i must say that i am outraged by the attitude of the european central bank, both in the voice of mr mersch, first, and in that of mr constâncio, who told us in a very general way: 'gentlemen, ladies of the european parliament, you have nothing to do with this. go around, there's nothing to see". that is, in essence, their message. i find that unacceptable. i am therefore waiting to see what kind of interinstitutional agreement we can reach with them. but we should not think that banking union is limited to supervision. integrated supervision - and i am certainly not alone in saying this - without a common system of banking crisis management, without a common system of deposit guarantee, a union cannot stand. and from this point of view i can only encourage the member states to go forward. we must end it, five years after the crisis began, with a speech of the type: 'are we stuck in the middle of the quayside? do we really dare to step forward?" there will be no strong europe without solidarity and responsibility. i know that some of us would like to see no solidarity, no responsibility. i think we need both. solidarity - i'm sorry to say this - is not something that comes for free. i hear many of them say that they are in favour of solidarity, even if it costs them a euro. we will not have a strong europe without solidarity, which requires, even temporarily, financial transfers. if we set up a deposit guarantee system, a crisis management system financed by the banking sector, i think we will ensure above all solidarity between banks, and that is quite normal, rather than, ultimately, solidarity between the taxpayer and the shareholders of the banks.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you to each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen. although i am not in a position to respond personally to the many members who have spoken on this important subject, i will start with the point mr pittella raised earlier in referring to the situation in the banking sector, since that is what is at stake. let's not have short memories. let us remember the reasons for this financial crisis, which came from the foolish behavior of a number of bankers, especially in the united states, but not only in the united states: no supervision, no internal governance, toxic products, poorly capitalized banks, no liquidity requirements, unexplained bonuses - paying more in bonuses the more risk they took to finally make the taxpayers pay. that's enough! and these are precisely the lessons we are learning from the crisis. i wanted to say to mr godfrey bloom, who has just mentioned all these things in his short memory, that this is a real caricature of the liberalism and capitalism we have been experiencing and sometimes accepting for the past twenty or twenty-five years. that's enough! we want to protect the taxpayers. we also want to protect, ladies and gentlemen, depositors, in a clear, clear, definitive way, anywhere below 100 000 euros, and even above, by the preference of depositors. all these issues were also raised by mrs berès, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, for the last three years, together with you, we have drawn up this regulatory agenda of 28 regulatory laws, i do say 28 laws, so that, as we have committed ourselves to, no financial actor, no product, no sector escapes public regulation. and there are some very important pieces in this chart and in this agenda. your president, mr karas, has done a great deal for crd iv, which gunnar hökmark mentioned. i would like to say to mr hans-peter martin that he should not forget that in this agenda you voted for the regulation of derivatives and credit default swaps. at the heart of the matter is the need for a sound banking system now. the reality is that we are dealing with transnational banks within the single market, whose management and supervision can no longer, of course, be purely national. nor can they be a summation of national views, as mr schmidt has just said, or mr peterle has decreed and indicated. and then the treaty of lisbon specifically provides, in article 127 (6) thereof, that the european central bank may be held liable under certain conditions. we have said to ourselves - and i say this in a friendly way to werner langen - that all the heads of state and government had this article in mind in their request of 29 june, and we ourselves felt that we could work within this framework, given the credibility and expertise of the european central bank and also the fact that, in choosing it, under certain conditions, we were sure of its operational implementation with, of course, as philippe lamberts and sven giegold have pointed out, mechanisms of democratic control. i have made a general comment to introduce my reply, but i would like to make a few points by telegraph. mr klinz and, earlier, mrs jäätteenmäki have referred to the two-pillar systems. i would remind you that in the vote you are about to take - and i hope you will - all the banks in the euro area and in the countries which will voluntarily join the supervision are concerned and involved in a system which will be run by the european central bank, which will be able to withdraw authorization and give instructions, but also take on direct supervision of any of these 6000 banks, even though i think it is legitimate for the european central bank to rely on national supervisors for almost all banks, especially small and medium-sized banks, but within a framework, with a roadmap, according to a supervisory manual which will be the same for all 6000 banks. paulo rangel, mrs gáll-pelcz and mrs roithová have just mentioned the non-euro countries and the euro countries. i would remind you that countries outside the euro area do not take part in the voting of the governing council of the european central bank. so we worked together on specific procedures. we cannot have banking union against the will of countries which are not or have not yet joined the euro area. that's why we found these balanced mechanisms. mrs wortmann-kool asked a question earlier about operational implementation and in particular the assessment of the balance sheet of supervised banks. i would remind you that article 27 of the regulation, which creates the supervisory mechanisms, is clear: the european central bank will take an inventory of the balance sheets of the banks. there are no tests for each bank to be admitted to the supervisory mechanisms, and i am sure that the european central bank will implement this provision faithfully. andrew duff, earlier, and gay mitchell, they talked about treaty changes. we have worked together, because it was legally possible, within the framework of the current treaty, to implement this supervision. i think it is also possible to implement the other parts, in particular the european resolution authority, within the framework of the present treaty. we do not exclude the possibility of a future amendment to the treaty, which some governments are calling for, for reasons of legal certainty, which i can understand - and the german government in particular - is possible. we ourselves, the european commission, have mentioned in the blue print the proper functioning of the union, in order to go further - to consolidate, clarify and reassure - in particular in the budgetary union, which mr pallone mentioned earlier, or the political union which you mentioned, mr president karas. but we believe that we can put the whole mechanism of banking union into place within the framework of the present treaty. many of you have rightly referred to the democratic control which i myself stressed earlier, and your two rapporteurs, burkhard balz, sylvie goulard, werner langer and mrs kratsa, have rightly done so. i would like to remind you of president draghi's commitment to strong political responsibility for the european central bank. i would also like to remind you of the ecb's responsibility to national parliaments, as sharon bowles has mentioned. it is obvious, and i support your position, i say to sven giegold and marianne thyssen, that important responsibilities of the european central bank must be accompanied by important democratic controls. that is the purpose of the interinstitutional agreement you are working on, without mixing up the roles, as astrid lulling has rightly said. i am in favour of the single market as kay swinburne has described it. i myself, particularly in my role as commissioner for the single market, am very concerned about the integrity and the proper functioning of this single market. i would remind you that these 28 regulations are applicable throughout the single market. it is the single rule book, i.e. one single rule book for all the countries of the single market, which will soon be 28. and in the euro area, because in the case of the euro area countries, the systemic interdependence of the consequences for their banks or for their states is stronger, it is a just decision to implement the application of this single rule book in a more integrated, more efficient, more federal way. that's what we're discussing today. mr klute also mentioned the euro area, and i would remind you that the national supervisors who are not in the euro area, outside this single supervision, will have to apply rigorously the same single rule book as that which will be applied by the european central bank, particularly in the area of supervision in the euro area. sharon bowles and markus ferber rightly said earlier that we are talking about a first step, a first step towards banking union. we must go further, as mr sánchez presedo, mrs ferreira, mrs wortmann-kool, mrs podimata, mr zalba, and also mr ferber or mr cancian have said, this is a strong and important piece. there are others, such as those under discussion in your parliament. i am thinking in particular of the subject raised by mr gunnar hökmark, which is the subject of the resolution for which he is the rapporteur, and the deposit guarantee referred to by mr peter simon, or the project on which i am working a lot with my teams at the moment, and which will be the last piece, the independent european resolution authority, which will work alongside the european central bank for supervision, and which i intend to present to parliament and the council of ministers in june. we have to move fast. it's a matter of credibility. it is also up to you, the council of ministers, the presidency, whom i thank, but the sooner the better to put all the pieces of this banking union together in an operational way.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think there has certainly been a wide-ranging welcome here for the very important step which the ssm represents for financial regulation and banking union. a lot of the issues that have been raised have been dealt with in quite a lot of detail by commissioner barnier, so i do not want to go over the same ground. i should say that the stated position of the council is that the building blocks for banking union should be put in place as quickly as possible. this is clearly also the prevailing view here in this chamber: mrs podimata, mr lambsdorff and a range of other speakers have made that point very effectively. i think it is a sensible approach to accord the matter the highest priority. the irish presidency, together with our partner institutions, is helping to advance banking union in as speedy a manner as possible. we have reached an agreement on the ssm, a very significant step forward towards ensuring financial stability and thus facilitating growth. we have also achieved agreement on the important capital requirements directive 4, which aims to strengthen the capital requirements for banks and the overall effectiveness of regulation for the sector and to enhance financial stability. as we move into the final weeks of our presidency, we will continue to afford top priority to the remaining legislative files in line with the european council’s conclusions, which set out a timeframe and series of steps for achieving banking union. the introduction of an eu-wide bank recovery and resolution process, which would set out the framework for how banks are to be wound down, is one of the remaining key elements of the eu banking union that is intended to break the link between sovereigns and banks. while i think we share the view that the ssm must come into effect as soon as possible, it will need to be complemented by a single resolution system. we expect that the commission will submit a proposal on this before the summer, and commissioner barnier has already mentioned that. we will need to work hard, and hopefully we will deliver very quickly on that crucial pillar of banking union. in that perspective, i should like to underline again the need for early adoption of the directives on bank recovery and resolution and deposit guarantee schemes. here i would like to take a moment to congratulate the european parliament and the econ committee on its vote on the bank recovery and resolution directive yesterday. in particular, i would like to pay tribute to my friend, the rapporteur gunnar hökmark, and all the shadow rapporteurs for reaching this very important agreement. the adoption of the ssm is a significant step in a series of measures which together are intended to strengthen financial regulation and our banking system. this is clearly very important to our citizens, as many of you have pointed out, because it is vital that there be confidence in our banks if our economy is to function efficiently. it is also necessary in order to avoid a repeat of the enormous difficulties that we have faced in recent years. i am sure you share this sense of responsibility which is incumbent on all of us to make real progress on the outstanding elements of banking union.
- i'm the reporter. - there has never been a large number of people present at one time this afternoon, but there have been many people who have come to the debate. what i have heard are mainly words of encouragement, support for the negotiating result, for which i am grateful, and encouragement to all of us to continue to create a strong banking union. commissioner barnier, thank you for the legislative proposals and the positive mediation role you have played in this banking supervision dossier. but you know that we expect even more from you, and i urge you to continue with the same ambition and the same spirit. we therefore encourage you to follow your regulatory agenda closely. we realize that only a step-by-step approach can be a sure-fire approach. that is the only realistic solution, but we insist on urgency. because only with the prospect of a full banking union will confidence return quickly. we know that the european resolution mechanisms are coming, but we also need those further steps, as already mentioned here, on deposit guarantee and on the conditions under which the esm will be able to recapitalise banks directly. i am therefore, madam minister, building a bridge to the council. we also expect the council to formulate the conditions for the use of the esm and to do so quickly. we also expect the council presidency to do everything possible to reach a unanimous agreement quickly so that the council can also finally approve the outcome of the negotiating package. i would like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen who are still here, that we will do everything possible to ensure that the rules and agreements on transparency and political control provided for in the regulation are also applied in the negotiations with the ecb, and i emphasize this, and that we will conduct this package of negotiations with the same diligence and commitment as the negotiations on the legislative package itself. let us therefore complete this banking union as the fundamental pillar of a renewed economic and monetary union, in such a way as to safeguard our european crown jewel, the internal market, and to restore the trust of our citizens and businesses and also of the banks.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the commission proposes a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, but it will bring us into a deep and genuine planning economy. with an ex ante coordination of major economic reforms, the commission turns into a kind of eu planning bureau. here we see emerging the brezhnevs of brussels. commissioner rehn is far too nice to be compared to the former soviet leader, nor does he have the same intention i presume; but his policies will generate the same effect. a monetary union has to be a budget union in order to survive. we tried to repair its flaws. we adopted the ‘six-pack’ and the ‘two-pack’, and i voted in favour. but now the commission pushes further and wants to plan the entire eurozone economy. an economy grows as a result of innovation and competition, not of central planning. so how does the commission regard central planning? social affairs commissioner mr andor said recently that germany must increase wages. according to him, germany is too competitive, so it has to reduce its competitiveness to get on the same level as the rest of europe. so the heart of central planning is equality, if need be in recession. the engine of growth is diversity led by market forces. where does european central planning leave national parliaments? they only have a right to be informed. national parliaments deserve better, mr rehn. at the very least they should take a vote on the mechanisms. central economic planning will not solve the problems of the euro. it will only entrench permanent recession. any analysis should start by admitting that the eurozone in its current form is a failure. its design was an historical error. the commission should fundamentally reshape the future of the euro. it could consider possible mechanisms to make withdrawal from the eurozone feasible, or study the options for a parallel currency to introduce much-needed flexibility into the system. but central planners hate flexibility. central planners, just like brezhnev, do not want to admit mistakes. they keep on planning in a dead-end street while young generations see their future evaporate and cultural resentment shows its ugly face. mr rehn, if perestroika is not applied soon, it will be too late and your central planning will share the fate of those in the past. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
"blue card" is the answer. i may be allowed to answer in dutch. mrs wortmann-kool, perhaps i have overestimated your sense of humour, but i compared mr rehn to mr brezhnev in the sense of the idea of central planning, not personally. he's not the same. i have the impression that we in the european union are increasingly moving towards central planning. the european union started as a liberal project and is increasingly becoming a socialist project. everything must be put to brussels and the national parliaments have almost nothing to say. this is causing a lot of discontent among the population. and there will come a day, mrs wortmann-kool, when the people will rise up against this. but then it may be too late for you.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the social pillar of economic and monetary union (2013/2642 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, i am pleased, as are others, that this topic of the social pillar has been able to be included on the agenda. would this be a first step towards recognising its absolute necessity in order to restore the balance between the union's economic and social policies and to regain the confidence of citizens through a strengthening of solidarity? the content of this report could cover a great many areas of work, and i shall concentrate on the subject of social minimum wages in europe. we have been calling for them for several years, and in particular: a minimum income throughout europe, as i already called for in my report on the fight against poverty three years ago; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i am also pleased to note that the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the labour market, such as the introduction of minimum wages, particularly in germany, a subject which i have addressed in questions to commissioner andor and the council, with a view to combating social dumping between member states of the union and, therefore, the competition of european workers. we know that european policy takes time. it always takes a long time for the council and the commission to see that parliament is right. but how much longer will it take before economic and monetary union finally becomes social and more solidary?
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, i was simply saying this to save myself the administrative hassle, to say that an agreement has been reached and that my group fully agrees with mr salafranca sánchez-neyra on this point. so we're sticking to the vote.
i too ask for a postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution, pursuant to rule 57 (2) of our rules of procedure, and for the same reason as that just explained by mr giegold. we have also explained these reasons in our agenda debate on monday at 5 o'clock and have discussed them at length in the debate on banking supervision. so i ask for an adjournment of the vote on the legislative resolution. thank you, sir.
in writing. i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament on the fight against tax fraud and evasion and tax havens. as all member states are struggling to reduce public deficits, it is urgent to tackle fraudsters and profiteers effectively! it's simply a matter of fairness and social justice. only a fair contribution from each of us, through taxation, can guarantee the preservation of our european model. moreover, the member states are losing 2000 euros per year per citizen of the union. it is essential to have a strategy in place to ensure that the member states recover what is owed to them. that is why we are also calling for the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens, which should lead to sanctions against the states that find themselves in them. the aim is to recover, by 2020, half of the estimated €1 trillion lost annually due to tax evasion.
in writing. − in the eu, tax fraud or evasion is estimated to cost €1 billion a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. the lack of coordination of tax policies between member states is often accompanied by high costs and administrative burdens, particularly for citizens and businesses operating across borders. this report calls for concrete action by calling for a concerted eu approach to tackling tax havens. the commission should also be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. these are concrete steps to combat the lack of transparency in this area. the eu's finance ministers should therefore take the european parliament's recommendations to heart and work towards solutions as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would like to point out that there are only tax havens because there are also tax havens, so it would be worth considering whether the latter could also be used.
in writing. tax fraud and tax evasion affect all member states of the european union without exception. the figures are alarming and represent a threat to the safeguarding of the european social model. the annual cost of tax fraud and evasion is €1 trillion per year, or €2 000 per citizen. these funds could be used to promote public investment, economic growth and job creation, which are all the more necessary in view of the deep economic, financial and social crisis we are experiencing. today, the collection of taxes and the fight against tax evasion are the responsibility of individual countries. but fraud is often organized across borders. therefore, to combat it effectively, member states must work together and firm action must be taken at european level. i am in favour of even more coordinated action by all eu member states.
in writing. the european parliament urged eu governments to step up the fight against tax fraud and evasion on the eve of a summit partly devoted to the subject. it is estimated that tax fraud causes a loss of €1 trillion in the eu each year. on average, tax losses in europe today exceed the total amount spent by member states on health care and are more than four times the amount spent on education! parliament urged the twenty-seven to implement the recommendations made by the european commission, including adopting a unified approach to tax havens and blacklisting them, with the main objective of halving the tax gap by 2020. the uk, which will host the g8 summit next month, has made the fight against tax evasion a priority. so perhaps it is time for europe to put its own house in order and convince austria and switzerland, even if the solution has to be global.
in writing. these frauds shift the tax burden onto workers and low and middle income households. in addition, they force the public authorities to make cuts in public services. the consequences are even more pronounced in countries where the socioeconomic situation is dire. in greece, for example, large companies have transferred €60 billion out of the country since 1 january 2012 in order to benefit from tax breaks. the total cost of tax fraud is higher than the combined health budgets of the union. stopping tax evasion would wipe out all the deficits in just nine years. we must act! national measures alone cannot remedy this scourge; a coherent, concrete and common european strategy on taxation is essential the massive tax evasion and avoidance by large companies has a serious impact on small businesses and individuals, who are subject to an additional tax burden as a result of these offences. the proposed rules must now be enforced so that honest citizens and honest businesses do not pay for the big companies that cheat!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is also a political signal to tomorrow's euro summit. if we ask the european citizens to bear the burden of heavy savings, we must be able to assure the citizens that everyone is making a correct and fair contribution. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the ambitious agenda we adopted by a large majority on 19 april 2012 on the introduction of the ccctb, the common consolidated corporate tax base. the eu's corporate tax system would become more transparent. the eu-wide consolidation of profit and loss will make it more difficult to abuse interpricing, avoid taxation and set up tax structures. it is therefore important that the council work on the implementation of the ccctb as soon as possible. the need for the correct application of tax rules requires the legislator to introduce the best possible tax rules and to pursue the most optimal functioning of the internal market. if we make it easier and cheaper to expand a business across borders, we can then demand with greater authority that everyone pays the taxes they owe. good governance and fiscal justice go hand in hand.
in writing. tax policy is, let us not forget, the responsibility of the member states and not the eu. however, a more intensive exchange of information, the application of minimum standards of good governance at the tax level, and a more coordinated approach between member states are required at international level to combat aggressive tax planning and tax havens. i have been advocating for many years that the tax on labour should be reduced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. it discourages employment and investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it suggests, as a possible solution to the problems mentioned, the establishment of an intelligent and coordinated 'tax snake' system which, rather than trying to harmonise the various national tax systems, would aim to coordinate them taking into account the tax reductions and increases introduced in each country. as a reminder, the recent debt crisis has raised several new problems in the european union, and their resolution requires an adequate adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term. some countries have already made these adjustments, while others are still in the process of doing so. it is imperative to stress that tax policy remains a competence of national sovereignty and that it is therefore necessary to respect the various tax systems in force in the member states. in addition, obstacles to the internal market and uncertainties and misunderstandings arising from legal gaps should be removed as soon as possible.
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was drawn up by a convention held from 17 december 1999 to 2 october 2000 and brought together representatives of the european parliament, the member states, national parliaments and the commission; it was proclaimed on 7 december 2000 and the text was adopted in strasbourg on 12 december 2007. a second convention was organised between 22 february 2002 and 18 july 2003 to draw up the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe, the substance of which was, in its entirety, taken up by the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009. these two conventions were convened to deal with major issues relating to the constitutional order of the european union, including the adoption of a binding text setting out the fundamental principles and rights recognised by the union. it was therefore not necessary to convene a convention to examine the proposal to extend to the czech republic protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, as this proposal would have little or no effect.
in writing. protocol no 30 does not exempt the united kingdom and poland from the binding provisions of the charter. this is not a "non-participation clause". it does not change the charter. however, as things stand, the protocol does not appear to alter the legal situation which would prevail in its absence. however, the very existence of this protocol is a source of legal uncertainty and political confusion. in this respect, it affects all member states adversely, not just the united kingdom, poland or even the czech republic. it is also perfectly clear that if protocol no 30 were ever to be interpreted as having the effect of limiting the scope or force of the provisions of the charter, the result would be a weakening of the protection of fundamental rights granted to polish and british citizens, which would run counter to the efforts of the union to maintain a uniformly high level of protection.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a package of legislative measures to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union. it thus responds to the need to adopt a european legal framework allowing for the recognition of all victims of crime, as well as the highest possible level of protection within the eu. the proposal for a regulation complements, at civil level, the directive which allows for the mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. the combined application of the two instruments, criminal and civil, will allow persons covered by a protection measure to move freely and safely within the european union and will ultimately lead to the strengthening and development of the area of freedom, security and justice in the union. a process is provided for, for example, to ensure not only a quick and simple recognition of protection measures in another member state, but also to facilitate their enforcement. the mechanism will also reduce the administrative burden for victims and ensure that they are protected when travelling to or settling in another member state.
in writing. i support the general idea of the regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures. but i also think it is essential to take a closer look at the problem of victims of gender-based violence. for this purpose, reference is made to the provisions contained in the proposal for a directive on the rights of victims. to better meet the needs of victims of gender-based violence, i would like to see appropriate training for civil servants who may have to deal with cases where a person's physical, psychological or sexual integrity could be threatened - particularly cases of violence against women. the work of civil society including ngos, women's associations and other voluntary organisations providing specialist assistance is recognised by the member states, which are encouraged to support and work with these organisations providing assistance to victims of violence, including women.
in writing. the eu-canada agreement is part of a broader process and strengthening of activities in the field of supply chain security and risk management over the past decade. the union's vision and policies to increase global supply chain security have been based on enhanced and multi-component risk analysis and management to target and inspect high-risk consignments. the rapporteur welcomes this risk-based approach to ensuring the security of global supply chains, which facilitates legitimate international trade without imposing an unnecessary economic burden on authorities or trading partners. it therefore encourages the european union to conclude a mutual recognition agreement with canada. the new customs cooperation agreement with canada develops and extends the scope of customs cooperation between the two developed partners. however, that does not mean that we will accept ceta if it endangers the freedoms of european citizens!
in writing. in order to ensure that the european banking authority is fully functional within the new banking union, which will certainly increase its workload, sufficient human and budgetary resources should be provided. in the more general context of the commission's proposals for banking union, it seems to me that part of the ecb's budget for its new supervisory activities should be set by the budgetary authority (parliament and council), as these are tasks which have nothing to do with the ecb's main task, namely the conduct of an independent monetary policy. the treaty provisions specifying that the ecb's budget is not part of the union budget were intended to guarantee the ecb's independence in the conduct of its monetary policy. from a budgetary point of view, the new functions which fall within the scope of the internal market should therefore be considered as forming part of the union budget and be subject to the same decisions as the union budget.
in writing. - the issue of banking supervision has been the subject of considerable controversy not only in the european parliament but also in the member states. the report by marianne thyssen is a major step in the right direction and a sign that the banking sector was and still is one of the main actors and/or causes of the financial and economic crisis. the european parliament is sending out good signals, which are also expected by the citizens of europe. although i believe that the deadlines are again too long and that certain countries are slow to tackle this issue, the proposal deserves support and the legislative resolution should be postponed in the interests of a coordinated approach.
in writing. we can still improve the text. the postponement of this vote is a very wise decision and we thank the rapporteur for accepting it. it is now time to go further on this matter with important implications for the european citizen.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and followed the rapporteur's opinion on her reservations about the commission's proposal. i am aware of the new regulation on market surveillance which is being drawn up by the commission, but the latest set of amendments which the commission is proposing are designed to ensure a higher degree of product market surveillance. to this end, i propose to strengthen market surveillance for distance selling by ensuring that all relevant information requirements are also applied to electronic commerce, to introduce an obligation for member states to inform the commission annually of their market surveillance activities, and to invite member states to provide appropriate funding to their market surveillance authorities. finally, i urge the member states to take appropriate measures against the misuse of the ce marking.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which allows us to assess the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive. it is an important directive and the result of long negotiations between member states. it is important because it contains important clauses such as the protection of minors against advertising practices, the freedom and pluralism of the media, the right to information and the prohibition of incitement to hatred. all these aspects are regularly assessed to ensure that these rights and duties are respected. the report also includes a section on future challenges, since with the rapid and profound changes in information and communication technologies, it is important to be able to anticipate as much as possible the consequences that may arise.
in writing. the dynamic acceleration of technological change in the world is having a huge impact on the audiovisual services market. the convergence between the internet and television means that operators are increasingly incorporating the internet and second generation network features into modern televisions. for consumers, the line between linear and non-linear services is becoming increasingly blurred. in view of the enormous opportunities and challenges associated with hybrid tv, the achievement of the fundamental objectives set out in the sma directive should be kept in mind. in the context of technological innovation, we need to ask ourselves how we can most effectively promote european and independent works, protect consumers, including children, effectively from the excessive influence of advertising, guarantee a level playing field for all broadcasters, safeguard freedom of expression and media pluralism, and promote media literacy, especially among young people.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as the city of quseir is about to fall back into the hands of bashar al-assad's army, as thousands of civilians, mostly children, are trapped, as the war becomes international and as foreign actors clearly side with the belligerents, parliament has chosen not to ignore this tragic turn of events but to look at one of the least visible aspects of the conflict, namely the fate of the refugees. more than 1.5 million are crammed into camps or hosted by families in neighboring syria, lebanon, jordan, turkey and elsewhere. their situation is tragic, despite the heroism of the humanitarian workers on the ground and despite systematic european aid. this is a tragic situation, because, as you said, mr commissioner, financial constraints prevent sufficient basic aid from being provided. riots have broken out in camps over the living conditions of refugees, such as in the jordanian zaatari camp, which hosts 170,000 refugees. sexual violence is rampant. women and children are raped, fake marriages are arranged, and prostitution is rampant. the families who host the refugees in lebanon are poor families, who can no longer bear this additional burden. and political and religious conflicts can cause the most vulnerable countries, like lebanon and jordan, to implode, but they can also cause tragic incidents, like in turkey. finally, member states are reluctant to accept syrian refugees, including deserters from bashar's army, who would be entitled to asylum seekers. today, between 1.5 and 2 million people in the periphery of syria and north africa are strictly dependent on international aid. but they do not seem to generate a huge outpouring of solidarity. any further escalation of violence would only inflate these figures, and the situation is indeed explosive. we are waiting for the hypothetical results of the geneva ii conference, but if it produces the same results as the june 2012 conference, it will be terrible. the european parliament today raises an alarm to the international community to take stock of the scale of this tragedy and to assume its responsibilities, as this humanitarian tragedy could well be the unleashed grenade that would set the whole region ablaze. i regret to say that i share mr salafranca's view that europe, at the political level, is still lacking the voice to make itself heard.
mr president, the tragedy of civil wars – and certainly syria is now in the throes of civil war – is that they never stop unless the fighters themselves are tired of fighting and decide that it is time to stop fighting. this means that trying to stop a civil war from the outside is extremely difficult. it does not, of course, mean that we should do nothing at all. the numbers of refugees, both internally displaced persons and refugees in neighbouring countries, are absolutely staggering. colleagues were right to point to the risks that the high numbers of refugees pose to the stability of lebanon and jordan in particular. i believe that, under the aegis of the notion of responsibility to protect, we would do well to call upon the arab league and all the members of the arab league to shoulder their share of this responsibility to protect their brothers and sisters.
i would like to make a point, commissioner, which you have not made, but which has been touched upon by a number of speakers before me. there are increasing reports in the media of sexual exploitation of girls and women, a distressing situation, including and especially in the zaatari refugee camp in jordan. this information is confirmed to me by my contacts with the unhcr in jordan. girls and women who are particularly vulnerable, often single, are forced into prostitution, survival sex. to this end, even fake marriages are entered into by arabs from the gulf states, making them the rule under islamic law. this shows the scale and organization of the abuse. some women are trafficked through so-called marriage agencies. there have been cases of young girls being sold by their newlyweds to brothels in large cities. unhcr in jordan recognized the problem and developed an action plan. one of the main concerns and observations is that funds must be adequate and effectively targeted at female refugees. the jordanian army must also be involved. the european union, as one of the main donors, commissioner, must take this into account, must put pressure on the jordanian government to help find solutions.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as the previous speaker, ms gomes, has so eloquently demonstrated, the recovery of libya, tunisia and egypt’s misappropriated assets is a legal and moral obligation – we all agree on that. i believe we also all agree on the fact that these recovery operations will in practice be much more difficult than one would have wished for. but the legal and judicial obligations will still need to be followed. i believe there is indeed a need to put into place a specific or trade-specific mechanism in order to accompany and steer the process, because it is certainly true that there is absolutely no comparison between the urgent expectations of the people in the three countries concerned and the concerns of the people in our countries where several of these assets are illegally and illegitimately parked. as i stated in my previous intervention, i believe that we should not only address the members of the g8 and our own member states and the institutions of the union and call for help and assistance, we should also address the arab league and the members of the arab league and the member states of the gulf cooperation council. it is highly probable that assets are there, and these should certainly also assist the populations of egypt, lebanon and tunisia.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mrs ashton may have good reasons for not being with us today. however, the previous debate on syria showed how our inexistence, our political impotence, our inability to act and perhaps even, for that matter, to activate temporary protection, would absolutely justify his presence and a little more voluntary action on his part. i think we should also be involved in this debate. it must mobilize us because, as has been said, recovery is obviously a matter of dignity, rights, the right to inventory, and also of new governments or newly elected officials in countries undergoing democratic transition. but i would like to add one more thing to what has been said. beyond the work that must be done legally, politically, and in the hope of really steering the european union, which does not simply consist in observing the bilateral action of each of the creditor countries, on their own territory, of these countries, it is also necessary to carry out a real audit on what is called the "odious" debt for these countries. and the odious debt is the debt that has been contracted by political elites, sometimes to secure their personal enrichment, sometimes to buy weapons to use against their own people. i would also like the external action service not only to be the pilot of these operations, which are multilateral, with the arab league - you are right, mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, this is very important - with other partners, with the g8, but also to agree to carry out the audit on the odious debt. mr moncef marzouki, who is here, asked us solemnly for it in february. i think it is our duty to provide a rapid response, not only a political response, which we are having such difficulty providing to syria, but also a response in the field of coordination of policies relating to recovery and the odious debt. this is the inventory right that countries have. we must at least offer them the ability to exercise this right of inventory after such long periods of dictatorship. i therefore really expect the external action service and the high representative to take the lead in this matter in a large-scale operation which will take time but which will require above all tenacity, determination and a willingness to coordinate all the actors. this is extremely important if we are to be concrete in the signal we are to give to the populations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". dear madam, we can obviously try to mix everything, to drown the fish. we are debating the arab spring here, countries which have liberated themselves and have not expected anything from us, because europeans have often been complicit in these regimes in the past. we were accomplices, and today they've been released. they have the right now to demand the return of the property that has been, as it were, taken from them. i don't care what happened in the past. i have three countries in front of me, mainly tunisia, libya, but also egypt. i hope that tomorrow we will do the same for the syrians, because we will have at least allowed the slaughter that is taking place to stop, to say the least. but i don't see the point of comparing the past with the present. i note above all that the external action service is now obliged to conduct a very urgent operation.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i understand your annoyance, who has been following the revolution in bosnia-herzegovina for so many years and who has contributed or tried to contribute with such urgency to improving the situation, to find that once again, a deadline is not met. i can also understand why mrs pack, who is a very temperamental colleague as we all know, and a very dynamic colleague, is now, out of that annoyance, tabled an amendment calling for the suspension of bosnia-herzegovina's membership of the council of europe, for the same to be done with the interim agreement and even with the financial assistance under ipa. i can understand that, but i don't agree. i do not agree with that because, however great the shortcomings of bosnia-herzegovina, unfortunately there are a number of members of the council of europe who have much larger shortcomings on their list and have had them for a long time, but who are, unlike bosnia-herzegovina, large and powerful countries. we are threatening to do so, but we are not calling for them to be suspended. i do not think it is a good policy to use different standards depending on whether a country is large or small. la fontaine wrote that in one of his fables: "only if you are weak or powerful", etc., but we must not take that as an example. we must continue to exert pressure on bosnia-herzegovina, but i think mrs pack's amendment goes too far.
it was a crazy idea to give a country like bosnia-herzegovina the status of a potential candidate country. it is a country that has a huge problem of organized crime, a country that also has a huge problem of corruption. a few weeks ago, none other than živko budimir, the president of the bosnian-croat federation, was arrested on suspicion of corruption, along with 18 other officials. one of them sold conditional release to convicted felons. the others are accused of, among other things, abuse of power, active and passive corruption, organized crime and drug trafficking. in other words, organized crime is present at the highest levels of the state. on top of that there is the problem of the rise of the most radical form of islamism, wahhabism, which wants to establish a sharia state in bosnia-herzegovina. we could miss something like this. we have enough problems in the european union and we must stop this enlargement madness.
madam president, i think that my colleague, mr bernd lange, in his presentation clearly defined the red lines of the socialist and democratic group and the social model that we intend to defend through these negotiations. and we're gonna be very strict about that. i do not want to go back on that here, but i would like to say how much we are concerned about the differences he has pointed out between americans and us. and i'd just like to take one example of that. in the case of the recent tragedy in bangladesh, after the collapse of this building, european companies came together to find an agreement on the safety conditions, on the working conditions in the textile factories in bangladesh. on 13 may, us companies refused to join the agreement, marking a clear division between the us and the eu. i would now like to return to the audiovisual sector. i think he should be excluded, my group thinks he should be explicitly excluded from the negotiations. negotiations for an agreement between the union and canada are already proceeding on the basis of a negative list, which excludes this sector. this audiovisual sector is defined by its content, by its cultural specificity, and not by the technology it uses, and the european public service audiovisual sector is destined to continue to develop in a digital environment.
in writing. with this agreement, we are promised substantial profits for the union and its businesses. but our model of society is in danger of being profoundly affected. we want to apply the same recipes of free trade and deregulation that led to the crisis and its tragic consequences. the union is clearly in a weak position in the negotiations with the united states: social, health, environmental, etc. standards are higher in europe, and compromises could therefore only be made at our expense; the united states can use its monetary policy to distort the rules of competition; our demand to exclude the cultural and audiovisual sectors must not make us sell out the other parts of the negotiation. a trade agreement cannot call into question our choices of society: in agriculture (gmos, hormones, etc.), in work (ilo standards, etc.) or in the environment (kyoto, doha, shale gas, etc.). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, when people say to me: 'germinal, it is over; the exploitation of man by man is over,' i reply: 'no, no, it is simply elsewhere.' what has just happened in bangladesh is just one example. we are all in this room, clothed in the price of blood, as they call it, "blood diamonds". indeed, the price breaks of large clothing chains like h&m, zara and many others, come from the unbearable exploitation of workers in bangladesh, which is the second largest exporter of textiles in the world after china. the european parliament had already voted on two resolutions on this subject, in january and march 2013. but this time, the tragedy was of such a scale - more than 1,100 victims - that the chain of multiple responsibilities was exposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but major industrial disasters can have positive effects. the marcinelle disaster in belgium in 1956 was the origin of the major ecsc research programmes on safety in the mining and steel industries. the seveso chemical disaster in 1976 gave rise to the seveso directive. let's hope the dhaka tragedy has the same impact. as you said, commissioner, a great deal has already been done in the field of legislation, social dialogue, the adoption of an action plan, and above all in the field of this agreement on safety and working conditions with foreign firms. i hope that these measures will be followed up appropriately. this is our responsibility. i would like to stress again, as i did last night, that the large multinationals based in the united states have refrained from signing this agreement and that we will have to take this into account in our dealings with the united states with a view to a free trade agreement.
in writing. four days after the collapse of an eight-storey building containing workshops in the suburbs of dhaka, bangladesh's capital, the country is still in shock. a final count after this industrial accident, the worst ever in the country, reports hundreds of deaths. the building had been built on unstable ground without the necessary permits, and more than 3,000 workers, mostly young women, were sent there just hours before the collapse, despite warnings about the building's fragility. since the building collapsed, several clothing brands have been found. some of them admitted to placing orders in these workshops. others strongly deny any presence. everyone has a garment made in bangladesh. it is not only the fault of the companies that sell these clothes, but also of the european authorities who insist on not mentioning the country of origin of certain products and thereby prevent the consumer from consuming responsibly. we must take trade measures against bangladesh, which enjoys preferential access to eu markets for its clothing, and force it to raise its safety standards for the sake of workers.
in writing. regulation 450/2008 establishing the community customs code did enter into force on 24 june 2008. however, in order to be applicable, its implementing provisions must enter into force. the deadline was originally set at 24 june at the latest. within this timeframe, not only was it necessary to revise customs regulations in depth with a view to simplification, but also to adapt them to the electronic environment. since this adjustment could not be made in time, the postponement was necessary.
in writing. i support this motion for a resolution, given the council's commitment to endorse the european parliament's position and given the urgency of the date of application of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 establishing the community customs code (modernised customs code).
in writing. the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp) gives non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries. in this context, exporters from these countries benefit from a reduction of duties on all or part of their exports to the union. this system gives these countries vital access to the union's markets and contributes to the growth of their economies. however, the sgp states that these preferences may be temporarily suspended in the event of serious and systematic violations of principles laid down in international conventions. these concern fundamental rights at work, such as ilo convention 29 on forced labour. in this context, the tariff preferences granted to myanmar/burma under the gsp were suspended in 1997 due to the widespread practice of forced labour. since 2011, myanmar/burma has undertaken serious efforts to open up and reform. following the ilo conclusions confirming these results, the council lifted the sanctions and, by this proposal, re-established the country's participation in the gsp. i therefore supported this proposal.
in writing. the union negotiates investment protection agreements with third countries such as canada, the united states, japan, india and china. these investment agreements are likely to provide for an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism allowing companies to bring claims against the union in the event of a breach of certain key provisions of the investment agreements. this regulation aims to create a legal framework in the event that an investor brings a case against the union. who is the defendant, the union or the member state? who's got to pay? the main issue in this case is a dispute between the member states and the commission over the allocation of powers in the field of investment policy. several member states, in particular germany, finland and the netherlands, wish to leave the member states with maximum powers. our group, on the other hand, is clearly on the community side and supports the commission's strong role in defending the union in investment arbitration cases.
in writing. every year, millions of europeans travel across the continent with their pets. with this report we have sought to make it considerably easier for pet owners to travel within the european union. since rabies has disappeared from most of the european union, an update of the regulation was necessary. the measures envisaged will also ensure a high level of safety for human and animal health.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report. the main objective was to facilitate the movement of pet owners and their animals within the union or to third countries, while ensuring a high level of safety with regard to potential risks to human and animal health. it has therefore endeavoured to improve the readability and clarity of the commission proposal in order to enable clear and unambiguous implementation by pet owners, law enforcement personnel, competent authorities and other parties concerned by the non-commercial movement of pet animals. as a result, the wording and, in some cases, the order of some articles has been changed, while often preserving the essential content of a provision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, only one of which has any bearing on the substance. it concerns the period within which the animals must undergo a clinical examination by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority before dispatch. this test determines whether the animals are fit to endure the intended journey. it is proposed to replace the current 24-hour period with the 48-hour period recommended by the world organisation for animal health.
in writing. i welcome the report on future legislative proposals for economic and monetary union. the accumulation of crises in recent years has highlighted structural problems in the member states. many instruments have been adopted successively to strengthen and improve macroeconomic governance in the union: six pack, two pack, pacte europlus and so on. at present, clarity is needed on all existing measures to make emu more efficient. prior coordination of major economic policy reform projects is essential to improve the eu's economic integration and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union.
in writing. i supported this resolution, stressing in particular that any new proposal must bring a clear added value to existing instruments, such as cohesion policy instruments. it should also be reiterated that governance within the european union must not infringe the prerogatives of the european parliament and national parliaments. as regards the creation of a convergence and competitiveness instrument (cci), it is crucial to ensure that this new instrument is adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and ensures adequate scrutiny by the european parliament.
in writing. the situation in syria is unknowable and the conflict is already spreading to lebanon. if europe does not act, there is a good chance that this conflict will spread to neighbouring countries. history will be there to judge our actions, to denounce our weakness, our indecision, our lack of political will. we have to take responsibility. we're talking about chemical warfare here. the international community has a moral obligation to respond and to punish all those who resort to such illegal and highly reprehensible practices. the eu, as i have said, must help the people, in particular by creating humanitarian corridors and providing food and medicine to the people who are suffering the most from the consequences of this conflict. there is a humanitarian crisis on the horizon. the numbers are alarming. some 6.8 million people are affected by the ongoing violence, with 4.25 million internally displaced within syria. the number of people in urgent need of humanitarian assistance is growing.
in writing. the un high commissioner for refugees said in a report published three weeks ago that the syrian refugee crisis is putting pressure on health services in neighboring countries. refugees are facing increasing difficulties in accessing the treatment they need, especially those with chronic illnesses or who are forced to resort to expensive health care. with over a million syrian refugees in these three countries and over 1.4 million in the region to date, the health system's problems are two-fold. first, the lack of funding for the syrian refugee crisis is exacerbating the problem of providing quality health care to syrian refugees, and especially to those living outside the camps. in addition, the increasing number of people requiring medical care is putting a great strain on the health services in each of the affected countries. prevention services, treatment of chronic diseases and expensive referral care are too expensive for refugees, despite the help provided by governments and humanitarian agencies.
in writing. recovery is of crucial importance for these countries, which are facing deep economic difficulties. the money must be returned to the people as soon as possible, to help stabilize the economies of these countries, to create jobs. the return of illicit funds will act as a deterrent to corruption and contribute to promoting a culture of integrity. it is a moral duty for the european union to provide political, legal and technical assistance to these countries.
in writing. the parliament's resolution should emphasise that the return of assets embezzled and stolen by former dictators and their regimes is not limited to its economic importance. indeed, this return is a moral imperative as well as a highly political issue because of the symbolism of the restoration of justice and the accountability attached to it, in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law. this issue is an essential part of the union's support for the democratic transition and economic recovery of the countries concerned. it can build trust between the parties in a spirit of partnership between societies, a cornerstone of the revised european neighbourhood policy. the resolution therefore calls for the immediate establishment of an eu mechanism consisting of a team of investigators, lawyers, prosecutors and other experts from the member states, other european countries and the united states to provide legal aid and assistance to the arab spring countries involved in the recovery process. the resolution should also call for the mechanism to be properly financed by the financial instruments of the union's external relations.
in writing. progress has been made on almost all the targets set in the country. progress has been made in macedonia's relations with bulgaria and greece, which is a positive sign for the opening of negotiations. it is true that more efforts will have to be made, in particular to enforce anti-corruption legislation, to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and to defuse tensions in the country's interethnic relations. macedonia is willing to make progress on these issues. the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia before june 2013 will provide a positive impetus to the reforms that the country still needs to make. i therefore strongly support this report.
in writing. regarding macedonia, i take this platform to raise a point that concerns me. as every year, in many countries, the unions demonstrated on may 1st, except in macedonia. in macedonia, the main trade union (ssm) believes that there is no reason to protest, although macedonia is at the top of the ranking for the number of unemployed and people living below the poverty line. the country is also lagging behind in terms of the average wage rate (€350), consumer prices are rising and workers' rights are being slashed to the bone. the labour code has since undergone more than fifteen amendments which have seriously reduced or even abolished certain acquired rights of workers. despite this, the ssm considers that all economic and social problems are solved through social dialogue with the government, and that the results are already visible. macedonia is one of the most disorganized countries in terms of trade unionism. 75% of employees are not in a union, and barely 35% of workers are protected by sectoral agreements, which means that workers' rights are steadily being reduced.
in writing. - i am in favour of international agreements between the eu and other third countries. but the eu's core values (including social and environmental standards) must be incorporated, as must a uniform opening of markets. this has rarely been the case with the united states, for example in transport, where we are granted far more freedom in the air and sea than the united states. this is very often the result of the will of certain eu countries to grant special freedoms. our weakness in relation to the united states is our own fault. this new negotiation must bring more eu coherence according to these criteria.
in writing. i feel relieved, happy, and delighted! the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of excluding audiovisual services, and in particular the cultural exception, from the negotiations to be opened with the united states. the cultural exception is anything but an archaic struggle; it is the expression of a creative and innovative europe, which makes culture, and the arts in particular, the foundation of our common values across linguistic boundaries. but beyond this strong signal, the european parliament has also given the commission the mandate to negotiate in the context of the creation of this gigantic eu-us market. with €600 billion in trade per year and over €3 trillion in bilateral investment, this huge market of over 800 million consumers could bring new breath to growth and create millions of jobs. given the common challenges between the two partners and the emergence of china, this seems, for the first time in history, to have a chance of succeeding and i can only rejoice.
in writing. no to the eu's agreement with the us without more guarantees for european citizens. will we flatten ourselves in front of the united states at the expense of many of our values? will we give up our hard-won european environmental standards? will we give up our strict food safety rules, or even drop our guard a notch or several on animal hormones or gmos? will there be another attempt to undermine the protection of the data of europeans? are we planning to undermine the social clauses protecting workers or to encourage social dumping? i refuse! i voted against this text, not because i am against negotiations with the united states, but because there are certain things on which we cannot compromise. it is the task which the citizens of europe have given us to ensure that their rights are respected!
in writing. a country may be excluded from the gsp in the case of serious and systematic violations of human and/or labour rights, in breach of the main international conventions. in 1997, burma was therefore temporarily suspended from the gsp due to widespread forced labour practices, in violation of ilo conventions. burma, because of its level of development, is eligible for the special arrangement for the least developed countries and could therefore export its products duty-free (except arms), but because of its suspension, exports from the country are subject to the taxes and quotas in force in europe. this therefore deprives burma of significant export opportunities within a key market such as the european union and effectively limits the country's growth and development prospects. under eu law, preferences can be recovered as soon as the international reference authority confirms that the 'serious and systematic violations' of human rights and labour law have ceased. in the case of burma, the ilo must ensure that the practice of forced labour is no longer practised in the country.
in writing. the alps are a potential territory for a macro-regional strategy. they have their own peculiarities. by becoming the third macro-region of the european union, after the baltic sea region and the danube region, they will be able to benefit from the cohesion funds and thus improve their competitiveness by developing or strengthening research and innovation, the establishment of a macro-regional strategy for the alps is a useful and necessary instrument for solving all the rural development problems such regions may face, such as employment, the environment, economic development, and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the importance of aligning the content of the alpine strategy with the alpine convention by emphasising that this macro-regional strategy takes into account the preservation of traditional forms of land use in order to encourage biodiversity and the preservation of existing protected areas. in addition, the commission should draw on the experience of the existing platforms for the macro-regional strategies for the baltic sea and the danube, in order to address the structural handicaps faced by mountain regions.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims. recent events highlight the need to strengthen safety and working conditions in bangladesh, europe's largest textile trading partner. a monitoring mechanism should also be put in place to ensure the proper implementation of the reforms as the recent accidents have occurred despite the commitment of the bangladeshi government to adopt stricter regulations in this area.
in writing. we have all seen these unbearable images of bodies trapped in the rubble of the textile factory that collapsed in bangladesh on april 24th. more than 1,200 people were killed! the tragedy brings up the crucial question of corporate social responsibility. the laws must change, that's for sure. industry is bypassing the otherwise flawed regulations to produce at lower cost. the government of bangladesh must act! and what about the western brands that are being supplied in this country? they must be held accountable for the practices of their subcontractors. i therefore supported this afternoon a european parliament resolution on working conditions and health and safety standards in bangladesh. the agreement has been signed by some of the biggest names in the textile industry, but it is too little, far too little! as consumers we are complicit in what pope francis has justly called slavery. unconsciously? sometimes, but that's a little short in our globalized world. many say they are willing to pay more for products that respect workers' rights. the intention is commendable and the change urgent!
in writing. the country is still in shock after an eight-storey building containing workshops collapsed in the suburbs of dhaka, the capital of bangladesh. according to the initial elements of the investigation, the building had been built on unstable ground and without the necessary permits, and more than 3,000 workers, mostly young women, were sent there a few hours before the collapse, despite warnings about the fragility of the building. since the building collapsed, several clothing brands have been found. some of them admitted to placing orders in these workshops. others strongly deny any presence. everyone has a garment made in bangladesh. it is not only the fault of the companies that sell these clothes, but also of the european authorities who insist on not mentioning the country of origin of certain products and thereby prevent the consumer from consuming responsibly. the european union should consider trade measures against bangladesh, which enjoys preferential access to eu markets for its clothing, if the eu does not drastically change its safety standards for workers
mr president, you are quite right to vote. i just wanted you to be able to specify the subject of the vote. will we vote for the debate or for mr preda's proposal that there should be no debate? it is simply a matter of knowing how to vote. that's all i wanted to ask.
we in the european parliament must exercise the necessary caution and restraint when we speak about the application of the death penalty in third countries. this is all the more true for a country like india, which is facing a serious problem of islamic terrorism. i naturally agree with the recommendation that india should exercise the greatest possible caution in the application of the death penalty. and the rule of law should apply to everyone. but i also believe that we must absolutely avoid presenting terrorists whose acts have been proven as victims and not as perpetrators. mohammad afzal guru was involved in the preparation of an attack that claimed the lives of 12 people. it is an essential element in his condemnation and i regret that this element is not even mentioned in the joint resolution of the five groups. afzal guru himself was in favor of the death penalty, but then applied to innocent people who had no defense. let us not forget that.
mr president, commissioner, madam representative of mrs ashton's office, the execution of mohammed afzal guru by hanging on saturday 9 february is a sign of an alarming and regressive trend in india, where executions are carried out in the utmost secrecy and where the resumption of the death penalty has led us to draw up this resolution. many speakers, including mrs delli, spoke on the subject. i do not wish to repeat what has been said, but there are serious doubts about the fairness of the trial of mr afzal guru, who was not able to choose his lawyer. he had a lawyer who had no adequate experience and then, later in the proceedings, the family had not been informed of the execution. that's been said too. the body was not handed over to the family for the funeral and burial. in view of all these violations of international standards, it was only natural that this motion for a resolution should be on the agenda and that we should support it, if possible as unitedly as possible, in this parliament, beyond our political divisions.
mr president, victoire ingabire, the rwandan opposition leader, must be able to benefit from an appeal procedure in line with international fair trial standards after she was convicted and sentenced to eight years in prison in october 2012. the trial of victoire ingabire at first instance was marred by irregularities - it has already been said - and international standards were flouted. since the beginning of the investigation, president paul kagame has made statements in the media and on twitter regarding victoire ingabire's alleged guilt, which were obviously contrary to her right to the presumption of innocence. it is simply outrageous. the terrorism charges are largely based on confessions obtained after a period of detention under military control in camp cami, where torture is used. the prisoners were subjected to torture and other forms of ill-treatment. opponents of the rwandan authorities have been harassed, intimidated and detained. in view of the gravity of the situation, this resolution must of course be fully supported.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would ask you to apply rule 140(1) and propose that we include a new item: a commission statement on the us internet surveillance of eu citizens, with one round of speeches. the reason is very simple. it is in response to the articles in the guardian, the washington post and the new york times on the existence of a surveillance programme run by the us national security agency that involved issuing a court order to verizon, the second largest us mobile phone provider, as well as a secret programme that collects data directly from us service providers; those that we know of are microsoft, yahoo, google, facebook, skype, youtube and apple. this means that all our emails and other electronic communications, including via social media, can be intercepted and read by the us security services, even if they are sent only between eu citizens. it is obvious that there are very serious privacy implications for eu citizens. i would therefore propose that we include in our part-session this week a commission statement on the us internet surveillance of eu citizens, with one round of speeches. this could perhaps be in replacement of the pargneaux report, on which we decided a few moments ago.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have rightly said, the member states have not kept their commitments, but above all the vote is a highly political vote - the one that is postponed - because we will arrive at 1 july, the date of croatia's accession, without having put the money at our disposal, so that croatia can really be part of the union. but i would add that the council has expressed itself by giving an initial availability only with 'redeployment', that is to say without putting in the fresh resources that are needed, and parliament has objected and continues to object that when we invite someone after a long journey to join the union, we do not invite him to lunch using the leftovers from the dishes of all the other diners. we therefore strongly stress the need for fresh resources in the council and for a timely decision so that we can of course vote at the beginning of july and thus give full start to croatia's presence within the union!
mr president, i have a question about the agenda for wednesday. then we will have a statement from the high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, on the situation in turkey. it is my proposal that in addition to mrs ashton's statement, we should also ask for a statement from the commission, from commissioner füle, the commissioner responsible for enlargement. we cannot pretend that turkey is a country like syria or mali. turkey is a candidate country. i think we should be able to discuss the situation in that light, and it would be useful if commissioner füle could also take part in the debate.
mr president, i too would like to thank our rapporteur for the excellent work she has done on this legislation, which has been awaited for many years by workers who are particularly exposed to electromagnetic fields in the heavy industry, the steel industry, the metallurgy industry, near radar, also, or mobile telephone poles, but also in hospitals and research laboratories. the exemption granted to magnetic resonance imaging is one of the great achievements of this compromise and the reason for the two successive postponements. it was essential not to break the momentum of non-radiation imaging research when we know its crucial importance for a whole range of diseases. on the other hand, there is no perfect law and i personally regret that the exposure limit values for these waves are based on the recommendations of icnirp, a body regularly suspected of conflicts of interest with operators and which ignores most of the studies proving the negative impact of the waves on health. i shall conclude with a question to the commission. when will europe seriously consider the health effects of all europeans being exposed to electromagnetic waves?
president. - there are indeed some figures which prove that social policy is not going well in the 27 member states. i'll name a few. the employment rate in the european union is only 68%, whereas the eu 2020 target was around 75%. we still have 13 percent early school leavers, whereas our target was 10 percent. in higher education, too, it is again apparent that only 35 per cent of young people can be guided to this level, whereas the target was 40 per cent. and perhaps the worst figure of all, the 120 million people in the european union who are at risk of social exclusion and poverty. this actually proves that the social model as it has been set up in the past is not sustainable, and that it is built on debt - we saw that during the debt crisis. nor is it adapted to our modern times, for times have indeed changed. we've been through globalization, and it's still going strong. we also experienced a demographic shift, which our social system was not prepared for. our social system has also proven far too reactive and far too little proactive. we need a new social policy in europe, one that deserves the support of the european commission, but also of all the member states. we need to invest in people's talent, we need to proactively have policies that give people the right skills to be really active in the labor market. and the end goal is very clear. improving the quality of the labour market, strengthening social cohesion in europe, but also strengthening europe's competitiveness. the current policy objectives are not sufficient to achieve this. that is why we have tabled our question, which we have also supported as liberals. we need to pay more attention to priority policies, childcare, education, an active labour market policy, but also to simplify and make benefit systems conditional. we must work above all to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of social policy. improving the sustainability of social policy does not necessarily mean spending more, but more importantly, spending differently, adapted to globalisation, adapted to our modern times and, above all, more efficiently.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, we started work on this regulation on specific foods in september 2011 and on 14 november, under the cypriot presidency at the time, the agreement was concluded between the european parliament delegation and the council. so 20 months of work on this regulation, which ends today. this legislation is important for all families, for all parents who, when they go shopping, put infant milk, fruit or vegetable jars in their shopping carts for their babies and, beyond these families, for all european citizens for whom a particular diet is vital or at least essential to their balance. i am thinking here, first of all, of the long-term sick, the hospitalized but also of the obese, who are increasingly numerous in europe - 400 000 new cases a year - and who must follow a regular diet with medical supervision. i would like to mention three concrete achievements which are a real step forward compared to the situation we have today. the scope of application will now be limited, and strictly limited, to the categories of population that really need these specific foods: newborns and children under three years of age, obese patients and long-term ill or hospitalized patients. this means that all other food products, cereal bars, snacks, meal replacements, etc. - and there are dozens, even hundreds - will be transferred to the general food regulation, the general food law of 2002, which is a good thing as abuses are known in the labelling of these foods that use and sometimes abuse the health argument without actually being specific foods. which also means that growth milks marketed for babies aged 12 to 36 months as well as products for athletes - it's hard to define what an athlete is, isn't it? will wait at least a few years before eventually bearing this 'special food' label. other products also covered by our work and by this legislation are those products which are aimed at food intolerances (gluten intolerance, lactose intolerance) and which were one of the priorities of our committee's work. these products will now be incorporated into the food information to consumer regulations which already provide - as we all know and remember - for specific provisions for allergies. with regard more specifically to the issue of gluten, to which about one in 300 european citizens is allergic, the important thing was, of course, to respond to the urgent, acute, specific and legitimate demand of the national associations of celiac patients to continue to benefit from the same level of protection as today. it is done, they can be reassured, with the agreement reached with the cypriot presidency. this guarantee is now sealed in the agreement, with strong requirements for the composition and labelling of gluten-free products. i now come to the main achievements of this agreement. it is also worth noting a major victory in the area of labelling. we have convinced member states to extend the labelling restrictions to follow-on formulae for babies aged 6 to 12 months. so for these products, there will be no more baby pictures that, in a way, idealize the product in a sometimes misleading way. i would also point out that the constant concern of our parliament to eliminate contaminants and to be vigilant about nanoparticles has been heard. a commission statement is included in the text which aims to prevent pesticides classified as cmr or considered as endocrine disruptors from entering the food chain. before concluding, i would like to thank all my fellow fictitious rapporteurs, ms esther de lange, daciana sârbu, julie girling and mr carl schlyter - the only man who was on board our negotiations - who supported me very courageously throughout these negotiations, and i will conclude by calling on my colleagues to confirm the vote in december 2012 and to underline the excellent compromise reached with the council because it is also with these legislation that people's daily lives are affected, since we are addressing one of our basic needs, namely to feed ourselves and to feed safely the most vulnerable among us, that europe can win back the hearts of the people.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i am not going to reopen the debate here, of course. as we said earlier, we are concluding today 20 months of work, three votes in committee, one vote in plenary and three very important trilogues. we have had to negotiate with the council and the commission to get some of the main points of this report, including the delegated acts for the union list, the famous substances that can be added to the food we are talking about here, this very important statement by the commission on pesticides and the gluten issue. i would like to reply briefly to mr rossi - but i do not see him any more - and to my italian colleagues who have spoken on the matter. it is right, of course, to point out that this final compromise, which is the one we are going to vote on in a moment, does not take up parliament's position as voted at first reading, namely that gluten-free products should be included in the scope of this particular regulation. i know how difficult this question is. it affects - as i said earlier - one in three hundred europeans and in italy the figures are even higher: one in a hundred, as mrs gardini said. i also think that in italy the situation is a little bit different, with the question of refunds being particularly relevant to the gluten question. as we have said, the compromise reached in the trilogue is acceptable to all the negotiators. it is also acceptable - and i would like to remind you of this - for all the associations that have approached us, including the european umbrella association which represents celiac patients. i personally, but on behalf of all my fictitious rapporteurs, have received the congratulations of mrs caterina pilo, president of the italian association of celiac people, who is satisfied with this compromise. i therefore wanted to tell mr rossi that i think he can be reassured about the text we are going to vote on shortly. i thank all those who have worked throughout our negotiations and, of course, i call on all of you to support us in the vote this afternoon.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. of course, the european authorities must now ask their american counterparts for clarification. but we, as europe, must also learn from this. this can serve as a competitive advantage for european businesses, particularly for cloud services, but also for other services such as search engines or social media platforms. the ongoing reform of european legislation should aim at the highest possible standards of protection. because, ladies and gentlemen, this awkward prism case clearly shows that there are too many loopholes in european legislation at the moment which urgently need to be closed. if necessary, we must reject the reform in the absence of firm guarantees to protect the fundamental rights of eu citizens, as the hemisphere has done in the past in the swift case and in the negotiations with the us on the exchange of airline passenger data. european companies, which have unfortunately often been dragged into lobbying for weaker regulations by their american counterparts, need to defend more their own role in the world market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules in the eu are not weakened.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - mr president, commissioner, a remark and three messages from the committee on agriculture. the first point is that we are talking, we are discussing the difficulty of maintaining food aid at three and a half billion euros for the next seven years. i'm comparing this to the united states of america, which spends 100 billion dollars a year on food aid. it is, in fact, disguised aid to agricultural production, which we forbid ourselves to do, but they disguise it as social aid, and it passes. three messages from the committee on agriculture. first, the recovery of the 3.5 billion over seven years is the least of these. when the european budget is cut by 3% overall, we cannot imagine that aid to the poorest will be cut by 40%. this is unacceptable. secondly, although aid is becoming much more social with emergency aid and not just food aid, we reaffirm the primacy of food aid. that's the base. third message: simplification of the rules. perhaps we have gone too far with the vote on the amendments tabled by mrs le brun and others, but the mechanism must be simplified because we are dealing with a world which is essentially associative and not broken by administrative techniques.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on her excellent work, which has led to good compromises in the committee on employment and social affairs. unfortunately, because of certain groups, the negotiations could not begin and some compromises are being called into question. a few things are fundamental. firstly, the need for a strong signal from the european parliament in view of the negotiations to make european-funded food aid sustainable as from 2014, as we wished in my report on the platform for the fight against poverty. secondly, the importance of reducing the budget to eur 3.5 billion. this must be the minimum in a context of increasing precariousness in europe. thirdly, we need a mandatory and solidarity fund for all. funds for assistance to the most deprived cannot be reallocated to other programmes in different countries. it's socially and budgetarily shocking. we don't give up until we negotiate. finally, i am pleased that the text refers to the fight against food waste with a view to extending local initiatives throughout europe to complement european aid to food banks.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the agenda calls for the continuation of voting time.
this closes the voting.
in writing. the fish stocks of the north sea are a real source of food for european citizens. it is therefore essential to ensure that fisheries are ecologically sustainable, in line with economic and social objectives, and that this long-term plan contributes to the availability of food resources. a precautionary approach to fisheries management must therefore be applied to ensure that the exploitation of marine biological resources maintains populations of species fished above levels that can produce maximum long-term yield.
in writing. the european union is the third largest player in the global fishing industry and has always been a pioneer in the fight against illegal fishing. some species are particularly threatened, such as the endangered cod. the special management plan for its conservation, put in place in 2008, imposed automatic annual fishing quotas. a very controversial plan because of its impact on employment and the survival of the fisheries. that is why parliament adopted its revision this afternoon, with the aim of making it more flexible by introducing exceptions on a case-by-case basis and implementing a gradual phase-out of cod discards to stop the excessive mortality of the species. it is essential that europe should fight on two fronts, namely ensuring the survival of fisheries on the one hand and ensuring the preservation of natural resources on the other. i wonder, however, whether it is appropriate for parliament to legislate on a case-by-case basis for different species of fish. it would probably be more consistent and effective to leave the matter in the hands of the commission and its fisheries experts.
in writing. as this regulation is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned with the feu treaty, it is particularly important to find a solution with a sound legal basis that guarantees the rights granted to parliament by the lisbon treaty. in addition, the solutions adopted for this regulation may influence the decision-making process applicable to other multiannual plans. the rapporteur broadly endorses the commission proposal in that it suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt fishing mortality rates and spawning biomass levels to scientific findings; to adjust the fishing effort in the event of the exclusion of a group of vessels from the effort management regime or the reintroduction of that group into the regime; to specify the rules on the method of calculating fishing capacity and adjust the maximum capacity levels; to lay down rules on the method of calculation allowing member states to adapt the maximum allowable fishing effort in connection with quota management and following a transfer of fishing effort between effort groups.
in writing. we voted in favour of the waiver of immunity as long as it does not go against european values and allows the authorities who request it to obtain clarifications for the proper functioning of justice.
in writing. we voted for the waiver of immunity as long as it does not go against european values and allows the authorities who request it to obtain clarifications for the sake of justice.
in writing. we voted in favour of the waiver of immunity as long as it does not go against european values and allows the authorities who request it to obtain clarifications for the proper functioning of justice.
in writing. with 500 million consumers, consumer policy is one of the priorities on the european agenda. in the era of globalisation and digitalisation of the economy, inequalities between european consumers are still present and must be reduced. therefore, i welcome this new agenda which will ensure online protection and legal certainty and reliable delivery services while contributing to the development of a low-carbon economy.
in writing. ensuring food safety, health, energy, financial and digital product security should be the top priority of the european consumer agenda. this agenda is part of the final phase of the digital single market, which requires online consumer protection, legal certainty, consumer rights and delivery services that ensure the efficient and reliable transport of goods and services. we need a european consumer agenda that will reduce inequalities between european consumers and contribute to the development of a low-carbon economy. at the global level, european consumers are facing new challenges such as globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, digitalisation of the economy and an ageing population. all these realities call for more appropriate instruments both for redress and for support of consumer organisations. in addition, the current financial crisis is making consumer decisions more complex. we can therefore demand that consumers have effective, transparent and reliable information which also makes it possible to compare products.
in writing. directive 2003/8/ec was a very important piece of legislation to ensure that europeans with less financial means also have access to justice in other member states. however, only 12% of citizens are aware of this right, so it is important to make people aware of its existence so that they can benefit from it. in addition, a competent legal service must be established, including directories of legal practitioners with language and comparative law skills and access to legal aid in the country of residence or the country where the dispute occurred, in order to deal properly with cross-border cases. improving access to justice in the union is essential, which is why i supported this text.
in writing. in order to improve the levels of competence, member states could also consider designating a single transmitting or receiving authority for each jurisdiction, so that the officials required to handle such cases have sufficient experience in this field. where cross-border legal aid is managed in a decentralised manner, the different offices often have only a small number of cases to deal with, which means that the officials concerned do not have the opportunity to acquire the necessary experience to deal with such applications effectively. another problem that is currently being raised is that there are disparities between member states as regards the thresholds applied and the guidelines for the granting of legal aid. it follows that a person could be entitled to legal aid in his member state of residence but not in the member state where the dispute occurred. applicants should have the possibility to qualify for legal aid either in the member state of residence or in the member state where such aid is required. this would allow each authority to apply its own thresholds and set its own guidelines.
in writing. this new regulation is fully in line with the eu's policy on the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr). it is important that customs officials strengthen ipr compliance while maintaining control of all goods. this measure is of major importance in contributing to the single market which ensures more effective protection for rightholders, encourages creativity and innovation and provides consumers with reliable and high-quality products, which should in turn strengthen cross-border transactions between consumers, businesses and traders. for all these reasons, i wholeheartedly support this measure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the new regulation proposed by the european commission should establish procedures for customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. on the other hand, the determination of infringements of intellectual property rights as such will be a matter exclusively for union positive law or the national laws of the member states.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is today adopting a new law on foodstuffs. the most important part of this is the new rules on infant and toddler feedingstuffs. i support the new measures for these vulnerable groups. clear provisions on composition and labelling should put an end to the current differences in interpretation and enforcement in the member states. they must ensure a level playing field and the proper functioning of the internal market. the new law also aims to help consumers make an informed choice by improving the comparison of products. the precautionary principle is also given a central place in the legislation. consumer safety must always come first. the use of pesticides is being tightened. this agreement has nothing but advantages. for producers, a tangle of rules is replaced by a clear framework. no less than eight different laws are bundled into one regulation. for consumers, this law therefore means a better guarantee of correct information and quality.
in writing. i welcome the report by mrs frédérique ries, which is the culmination of a long-term effort. food is health. the legislative framework had to be simplified and the food policy updated in the light of recent technological innovations in this field. the report sets out stricter provisions, in particular on product labelling, which are essential for the protection of consumers and the most vulnerable groups. the reform of this legislation will enable consumers to make informed and healthy food choices, and labelling will no longer be able to mislead them.
in writing. following the adoption of the parliament's first reading position in plenary on 14 june 2012, informal negotiations with the cypriot presidency have started with a view to reaching an agreement at an early second reading. after three rounds of trilogue, the negotiating team of parliament and the council reached an agreement on this matter on 14 november 2012. the text of the agreement was submitted to the envi committee for a vote of approval on 18 december 2012 and was approved by a very large majority. in view of this approval by the committee, the chairman of the committee decided, in his letter to the chairman of coreper on the same day, to recommend to the plenary session that the council's position at first reading be approved without amendment. after a linguistic check, the council adopted the position at first reading confirming the agreement on 22 april 2013. since the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached at the trilogues, we have followed the rapporteur's recommendation that the committee adopt it without amendments.
in writing. the financial crisis and budgetary constraints should not be used as an excuse for a reduction in the protection of workers. electromagnetic fields have short- and long-term effects on the health of workers and it was therefore essential to take measures to protect them. the derogations provided for in this report also allow the electromagnetic fields to be maintained in certain areas such as magnetic resonance imaging, which is of crucial importance for the detection of a whole range of diseases.
in writing. this afternoon, the european parliament did a great deal for the protection of workers by adopting the report by mrs morin-chartier on exposure to electromagnetic fields. the legislation, which has been awaited for many years by medical personnel, now provides workers with a comprehensive safety net, as it is in addition to the directives on noise, vibration and chemical agents. this delay was largely explained by the strong concerns raised by the original 2004 directive which directly impacted the use of medical imaging (primarily mri). that is why it was important not to break the dynamic of non-radiation imaging research, when we know its importance, for example in the recent advances in diseases such as alzheimer's. so i say "bravo" to the mri waiver. the european commission must do more and from now on seriously consider the long-term health effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields. these are waves which are invisible, inaudible and odourless, but which are increasingly worrying european citizens. for one simple reason: we are immersed in a cocktail of waves, 18 hours a day. it's anything but insignificant!
in writing. health and safety at work is one of the main concerns of business leaders. but while these issues have long been integrated by large companies, smes still have difficulty in seeing the value of implementing a health and safety policy. however, failure to comply with these two principles can have serious consequences for the business. increasingly encouraged by legislation that emphasises the employer's responsibility for safety, small businesses are starting to take an interest in the issue and to discover the organisational, financial, human and image gains that can be the key.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. when determining the course to be followed in order to modify the cod stock plan, we must take into account the opinion of the scientists, who, as noted above, believe that the current plan has not produced the expected results. the interested parties would no doubt agree. the amendments to the commission proposal aim to achieve the objective of restoring cod stocks while ensuring that the actors concerned win the support of the commission. it should be noted that the implementation of a new long-term plan for cod stocks is widely seen as an interim measure, and that the objective is to replace this plan with multi-species fisheries plans, when scientific progress allows. as the current levels of fisheries management vary from one area to another, the timing of the transition to multi-specific plans for all areas covered by the cod plan remains uncertain. there is therefore an urgent need to improve the existing plan and make progress in this area.
in writing. − it is good that this report lists clear measures against the online gambling mafia. after all, online gambling is growing at a rapid pace and is increasingly being used by organised crime organisations to launder money. this has made the danger of match-fixing in sport much more acute, as several bribery scandals in european football in recent years have clearly shown. the fight against such practices must be stepped up urgently. we must further increase cooperation and coordination at european level. a number of measures are crucial in this respect. the european commission should adapt the european legislation on money laundering so that it also applies to sports betting. gambling on home matches should be banned and there should be a protection mechanism for whistleblowers. in addition, it is necessary to establish a specialised european 'match fixing unit' which can disseminate and exchange all information on cross-border online gambling activities between the different member states and stakeholders. finally, member states need to harmonise their criminal laws so that match-fixing is treated as a serious crime throughout the eu.
in writing. organized crime is a real threat to the security and freedom of european citizens. its related activities are undermining the european economy by diverting billions of euros from the economy every year, to the detriment of european taxpayers. these are transnational crimes which require action in close cooperation with the competent authorities. to combat such phenomena means to guarantee the freedoms of our european citizens, but also their well-being. the european union must act without further delay because we cannot tolerate these criminals to impose a sword of damocles on our economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. organized crime is no longer a phenomenon limited by historical and territorial boundaries: the traditional mafia-like organizations present in certain regions of southern europe have gradually expanded their sphere of action, exploiting the opportunities offered by economic globalization and new technologies, by allying themselves with criminal groups from other countries and other continents, by sharing the market and areas of influence, in the context of innumerable criminal activities and prospects for profits. the impact on local economies, societies and institutions is increasingly evident in different regions. organized crime has become a player in the global economy, taking advantage of huge illicit competitive advantages and polluting the real economy through fraud. violence and intimidation are now part of the normal activities of organized crime, along with corruption. money laundering is also a common side effect of the activities of organised crime and is closely linked to corruption, tax evasion and tax avoidance. it follows that organized crime, corruption and money laundering are often linked by objective evidence.
in writing. housing is a primary good and access to it is an inalienable right. having a decent housing is a prerequisite for a productive life. the current crisis is creating significant financial pressures and increasing demand for social housing in europe. the need for social housing is increasingly affecting people and now also those with average incomes. the construction of more social housing will boost the economy and employment and improve the energy efficiency of the housing sector in general. social housing should not be grouped together like ghettos but should instead be spread over the whole territory, which would avoid social segregation. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for emphasizing the importance of giving priority to single mothers in the allocation of social housing on the same basis as other vulnerable groups.
in writing. - i support this report on social housing because it provides a lever against the growing poverty in europe. some 25 million europeans are housed in social housing and waiting lists are long. in flanders, only 6% of the housing stock is social housing. however, social housing meets the right to adequate and affordable housing for all in several respects. in addition, all new housing must be low-energy. low-income households are particularly affected by high energy bills due to inefficient heating appliances and/or poor insulation. we call on the european commission to create a regulatory framework to better coordinate national housing policies and to include social housing as a touchstone in the budgetary control of the union. europe also needs to urgently develop a strategy to combat homelessness. we ask national parliaments to impose minimum quotas for social housing, with a view to social diversity within the neighbourhoods themselves. the evictions of the poorest people must also become more difficult, especially during the winter period. finally, we call on the european ministers for housing to meet at least once a year and to evaluate policy or progress in consultation with the partners concerned.
in writing. it seems clear to me that there is a social emergency to invest in the social housing sector. europe is experiencing a serious housing crisis which persists and may be widening despite the shocks which regularly strike european public opinion at the time of winter when the situation for the homeless seems untenable. social inequalities are widening, unemployment is skyrocketing, 120 million europeans are poor or at risk of poverty, and the private housing market is becoming less responsive to the growing demand from the most precarious households across europe. sufficient supply of social housing helps to mitigate the magnitude of property cycles and property bubbles that destabilise economies. investments in social housing need to be better reflected in the union's macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance system. the added value of the structural funds and european investment bank loans to stimulate investment in social housing should be emphasised. these funds make it possible in particular to develop continuing and vocational training in the green sectors and to create thousands of local, decent and non-delocalizable jobs.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote on this own-initiative report on social housing in the european union, not because i do not believe in the absolute necessity of good social housing, but simply because this report goes against the division of powers between the member states and the european union, and moreover does not offer adequate solutions to the existing problems. social housing is a crucial part of social policy and needs to be given extra attention in these times of crisis. however, the formulation and implementation of social housing policy is primarily a matter for the member states, so that account can be taken of the wide disparities between member states in terms of both housing and institutional organisation.
in writing. women's educational and professional mobility, a topic of crucial importance in the european union. however, this mobility is affected by the financial crisis and gender discrimination is taking place. women are increasingly victims of unemployment, so a policy targeted at women is essential to integrate them into the labour market. gender equality should no longer be a topic of discussion in the 21st century. however, i gave a negative opinion on the proposal to introduce binding quotas at eu level for posts of responsibility. real power must be allocated on the basis of the person's skills and merit rather than gender.
in writing. in the coming years, europe will face major challenges in making the labour market even more open and accessible. firstly, there is the objective of vocational mobility, which highlights the need to better adapt education and training systems to the new requirements of the labour market, to stimulate lifelong training and the acquisition of skills and to improve the mechanisms for the recognition of vocational qualifications. secondly, the still too low degree of labour mobility between member states shows that the benefits of the internal market are not yet fully exploited. in many cases, changing jobs can mean more than just changing one company for another, or even one sector for another: it can also mean starting a new career or a new trade. it is therefore essential to ensure that the mix of learning opportunities meets the requirements of ensuring employability and adaptability of employees throughout their working lives, which is one way of increasing their capacity for occupational mobility.
rule 170 of the rules of procedure says: 'no further explanation of vote shall be admissible as soon as the first explanation of vote has been commenced.' i did not invent it, it is the regulation of the european parliament of may 2013. i applied it. i have already made a mockery of you by giving you the floor on the delli report, since you asked to speak twice. i think we've done more than we should. i can only abide by the rules. explanations of vote by oral procedure
in writing. − this own-initiative report is a good way of examining what is preventing the development of a european electronic toll system. while no member state is obliged to introduce a vignette system, if it chooses to do so, interoperable solutions should be sought that reduce administrative burdens for freight forwarders, smes and drivers as well. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, weekly vignette costs are often up to four or five times the corresponding contribution of an annual vignette. in addition, revenue from road tolls should be re-directed to infrastructure and mobility rather than representing additional revenue for member states' budgets. this is the only way that tolls can make a significant contribution to the sustainability of transport and not be seen as a mere 'go-to-the-box' for car and truck drivers.
in writing. this measure is part of the road pricing strategy to introduce a vignette system for light passenger vehicles. after the failure of the european telephone toll service (set), the commission is obliged to discuss with the member states the advantages of such a system. i also strongly support the 'polluter pays' principle, while reducing the administrative burden on motorists, smes and transport operators. a toll system, as opposed to vignette or time-based pricing systems, would therefore be more appropriate to comply with this principle. i therefore fully support this text, but i decided to abstain on paragraph 19 that a regulation could be put in place to force the players in the sector to cooperate in the ets.
in writing. i agree with the commission that the set system has not had positive results. it has been a complete failure, and i believe that the commission must come forward with a new proposal for a regulation as soon as possible to ensure that the ets becomes a reality. i regret that in its two communications the commission has not given sufficient emphasis to the rapidly developing technologies of gps/gprs. the commission has not yet carried out a sufficiently detailed assessment of the possibilities. it may be of little interest to focus on the set in its current form if, in just a few years, road pricing is based on another technology. the commission's carrot and stick approach is too narrow and too late. the commission should engage with member states to highlight the benefits of a well-functioning ets. i think a regulation is the only way to solve this problem.
the common asylum and immigration policy, mr president, is, like schengen, not a good thing for the member states, because it all leads to even more immigration, both legal and illegal. the member states must once again be able to decide independently and with full sovereignty who is admitted to their territory and under what conditions. as we have seen in the netherlands and other member states, eu interference is against democracy in the member states when democratically established measures are reversed or made impossible by the eu. that said, eurodac can be a useful tool in the fight against illegal immigration, against terrorism and against organised crime in general. criminal networks take advantage of the possibility of asylum to, as it were, launder money and provide criminals with a residence permit. it is therefore positive that the police services of the member states can have access to the data of eurodac.
president. - i have two fundamental points of order. first of all, i think there is a lack of awareness in this chamber that about half the world's population lives in social or political conditions which would justify, at least in theory, an asylum application in europe. and that's not just in war zones, but also in countries with backward or totalitarian cultures like saudi arabia, or china, where there are a billion people, in the chinese dictatorship, to name a few. we are already taking in hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers on our continent every year. what do we need? a territorial limitation of bona fide asylum applications with reception, in principle in neighbouring countries or, in principle, if necessary, on the continent of origin. second thought. there is also no clear choice for the 'return' option. the easy access to employment and family reunification leads in practice to a suction effect and mass new immigration. why should a policy of forced return, as soon as human circumstances permit, not become the rule?
mr president, the advantages of this agreement, particularly for the annual accounts, have been widely discussed by my colleagues, and i shall concentrate on a very specific aspect: social and employment information for micro-enterprises and smes. i am of course pleased with the administrative simplifications for this type of company, which is the main engine of our economy and which we need more than ever today. this simplification is beneficial, but it must not lead to a lack of social and employment information, both for the social partners and for the public authorities. the latter need aggregated information from the situations of individual firms to carry out policies to stimulate employment, especially in the current situation of youth unemployment. in some countries, as you know, this information on the social balance sheet is now included in the annual financial documents and i wondered whether the agreement still allows member states to require that this information, which is fundamental for steering employment policy, is always available and reliable.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by recalling what the french president said a few days ago in japan. he declared that the euro crisis was over. i really like the french president, i like his style and i would like to think he was right. but this time we have to contradict him: non, monsieur hollande, la crise n'est pas derrière nous. the crisis – and this crisis – is not over. i think that we have to tell our citizens the truth. we are not at the end of a crisis. we are in the middle of one. we are in the middle of what is more and more becoming – and i think i can compare it in fact with what happened in japan because he was speaking in japan – a long period of stagnation for the moment. you can compare it with the japanese situation and what the japanese faced in the 1990s. for more than 13 years they tried to kick-start their economy with more austerity, then with more solidarity, then with both these things, and it did not work. it did not help. the reason was simple. the reason was that they could not solve their banking crisis. it was only after a recapitalisation in the japanese financial institutions of more than usd 500 billion that the japanese economy was kick-started again. that is exactly what is happening now. i hear all the proposals about youth unemployment and about giving cheap loans to smes, but that is not where the real problem lies. we cannot recover if we do not first of all restore the transmission mechanism between the banks and the real economy which is blocked today, which is blocked in the real world of today. smes have to pay 8 %, 9 % or 10 % on their loans, on their investment, a sum which it is impossible for them to earn. i think you would have to be involved in criminal activity to have an 8 %, 9 % or 10 % return. i would say to mr barroso that the only way to restore this transmission mechanism is to have banking union. that is the priority of priorities. could we perhaps do something in this council, because the only way that i can see we can make progress – beyond youth unemployment and over and above more symbolic things – is by coming to an agreement on this banking union. but you have already come to an agreement on the banking union three times inside the council and what is happening? we do not have an agreement on the single supervisory mechanism because there is still a discussion outstanding with the european central bank on the fact that we, as the european parliament, are asking for accountability from the ecb on this supervisory task – which is normal. on the resolution fund, we are still waiting. mr barroso has announced there will be a proposal on the resolution mechanism in a few weeks, but that is a stillborn proposal because it has already been shut down by some of the member states – by mrs merkel and mr hollande, who are joining together and in fact wanted a patchwork of national resolution authorities. we have been there before. this is exactly the same mistake that we made three years ago. you will remember that: when we talked about financial supervision and said that, with parliament, we need one single european supervisor and not a coordination of national supervisors. three years ago they refused to accept it and after the spanish crisis, what happened? they had to accept a european single supervisor. well, exactly the same mistake is being made now with the resolution fund. they have already said ‘no’ to the proposal which is not stillborn, but is being discussed at the moment in the college of the european commission. they say ‘no’ to it, although they know very well that their proposal cannot work and that we will again lose three years on the discussion about how it has to be coordinated nationally with a patchwork of national authorities doing it. well, i think that if you can do anything with the irish presidency, it would be to make things clear on the 27 june and to stop this fighting by member states who are asking for national solutions when everybody knows that only a european solution can solve this problem. this is not the only standstill we can see in europe at the moment. mr swoboda spoke about the mff. there is no progress here. the council is simply not listening to parliament’s request and, i am sorry, mr barroso, this is not only about flexibility, although flexibility is important. there is also the question of own resources and the question of the revision clause. it is unthinkable. we cannot accept that the next parliament, elected in 2014, will have no say on the budget for a period of seven years. it is like mr hollande coming to power in france and having to accept mr sarkozy’s seven-year budget. would that work? that is exactly what you are saying to us for the moment: that you do not want a real revision clause. the same is happening with economic and monetary union. together with mr gualtieri and mr brok, i am a sherpa for the economic and monetary union. we went to the sherpas’ meeting. do you know what the conclusion of the sherpas’ meeting was? everything was postponed until the end of the year. that was the conclusion of the meeting and the same is happening with the european central bank, which for the moment is struggling before the constitutional court. i think that mr schäuble is absolutely right. it is not in fact the ecb which is overstepping its mandate, but it is the court which is overstepping its mandate at the moment in germany. so my conclusion is that this crisis is not over. we need a firm wake-up call, president barroso, in your council of 27 june. we also need a wake-up call to the commission. the commission should now come forward with the package on your blueprint and not wait any longer for the council’s conclusions which will never come. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 194(8))
i share your concern that we must make progress with the banking union and that one of the first things we must ensure is that european supervision is effectively put into effect. but you only mention the lack of an interinstitutional agreement with the central bank as a barrier to this. we shall discuss this further this afternoon and i hope that your group will help to make progress on this. that's one. but secondly, the biggest obstacle is that the german parliament has to give minister schäuble a go-ahead under the german constitutional rules to ensure that there can be a consensus on ecofin. this is a matter which must be decided by consensus. are you prepared, mr verhofstadt, to persuade your german colleagues in the bundesrat - because the liberals are part of the coalition there - to bring the june agenda forward by two or three days? then we can finish this file in june. that's two months' profit to get the banking supervision in place.
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i will answer in dutch. i do not think that the fdp has any problem with the single supervisor, with promoting banking supervision. on the contrary, they have always been strong advocates of it. there may be other subjects on which we disagree. but the fact that you mention, the fact that we cannot go forward because one country has yet to give its approval on the basis of its constitutional rules, actually proves something else. it is not so much the success or failure of the german government or the german coalition, but the impossibility of governing europe today in an intergovernmental way and depending on the approval of 17 finance ministers, or depending on the approval of 27 ministers and prime ministers. it's not possible! what it proves is that we need that banking union as soon as possible and let us fight for it together a banking union like the commission wants. a resolution fund under the control of the commission, not the 17 finance ministers, because otherwise it will be that every time there is a problem with a bank, unanimity will be needed and in other words the german constitution will be invoked to block one or the other.
mr president, i listened to the speeches this morning and sometimes i wonder if i am dreaming. the measures proposed today to promote youth employment are very close to what the lisbon strategy had already envisaged, in an intergovernmental method which required each of the member states to draw up plans for young people, activation of unemployment, training, individual support, etc. that was the lisbon strategy. it has failed and today we have 30 million unemployed in europe. we have 15 million unemployed people who are not even unemployed and are here, untrained, unemployed. we know that today the most highly qualified are also unable to escape unemployment and that the old recipes we used, including activation plans, no longer work. so, the 6 billion that will perhaps go to a youth guarantee fund, is that enough? no, not until we actually have a recovery in employment and link the youth problem to the recovery in employment and the creation of new jobs in europe with a serious industrial policy.
in writing. congratulations and good luck to the first croatian commissioner in history.
in writing. - today we are voting on when to hold plenary sessions next year. this annual move from brussels to 'stressburg' will cost a sloppy 180 million euros and emit some 19,000 tons of co2. studies show that more than 90% of meps and their entourage no longer like travelling eu circuses. less money, better for the environment and a more pleasant family life for all concerned. a permanent seat in brussels would bring a host of advantages. there are certainly compensation possibilities for "stressburg". for example, moving the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee to strasbourg would be a good investment. a win-win situation for all: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. estimates show that over the period of the next multiannual european budget 2014-2020, we are wasting around 1.2 billion euros because we have to move from brussels to strasbourg (and back) for a total of (only) 48 days a year. if there is to be any savings, then we have a wonderful opportunity to set an example and put an end to this travelling circus.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 calendar. i regret, however, that the investiture is taking place in strasbourg and not in brussels.
in writing. our choice was mr. george pufan. i do not want to question mr mates' qualities, but we did not consider him the best candidate.
in writing. we welcome the appointment of mr pufan to the court of auditors.
in writing. illicit, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a major threat to the sustainable exploitation of aquatic biodiversity by depleting fish stocks, destroying marine habitats and distorting competition for honest fishermen. it is therefore necessary to limit access to the european market to products from certified fisheries that comply with the regulations in force. this text, which i fully support, aims to prevent, eradicate and discourage iuu fishing in eu and international waters.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of a report by my green colleague, raoul romeva, which aims to combat illegal and unregulated fishing. it accounts for about a third of the world's fish catch and is the backbone of any policy to make fishing more sustainable. and that is precisely what the european parliament is trying to achieve together with the european commission, environmental organisations and some member states. the text adopted today provides for a rapid procedure to blacklist countries which do not cooperate in combating illegal fishing. the european commission can now add more countries to the existing list of eight (belize, cambodia, fiji, guinea, panama, sri lanka, togo and vanuatu). this is a means of pressure to put countries that don't seem to care about sustainable fishing, like south korea, in the right direction, because once they are on the list, they will be subject to possible sanctions. although the eu itself has drawn up strict rules, illegal fishing remains a problem, with south korean vessels fishing in african waters, for example, as well as in parts of the european fleet. some european shipowners have ships flying the flags of countries on the blacklist and engage in illegal practices.
in writing. from an economic point of view, illegal fishing can often be a lure. because it is caught without respecting ecological and social standards, among other things, it is usually sold by fishermen at a lower price. wholesale and retailers prefer to buy cheap, although they may not know that the fish has been caught illegally. that is why there is relatively strong opposition to the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it is easy to oppose illegal fishing on principle. however, illegal fishing becomes much more difficult to counter when opposing it may result in interruptions in the supply of fish to the union market, a decrease in profits or interference in trade with 'important' trading partners of the union. i am generally satisfied with the commission's choices in this matter when it proposes amendments. however, i consider that, where recourse to delegated acts is proposed, the delegation of power should be limited in time in order to allow for a regular evaluation of its use.
in writing. i do not entirely agree with the text on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive establishing standards for the reception of persons applying for international protection. nevertheless, it does have advances. we therefore approve the council's position at first reading.
in writing. i do not entirely agree with the text on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive establishing standards for the reception of persons applying for international protection. nevertheless, it does have advances. we therefore approve the council's position at first reading.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the reform of the system of common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection to asylum seekers. the new text will allow for greater harmonisation of procedures in each member state by ensuring the same rights and guarantees for each asylum seeker, regardless of the country in which he or she lodges his or her application. for example, the time limit for registering files will be 3 or 6 days depending on the profile of the applicant and the examination of the application may not exceed 6 months. we also envisage harmonization of the rules on housing, subsistence allowance and health. it's enough to make the reception process more humane.
in writing. i agree with my colleague's text on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the european parliament and council directive establishing standards for the reception of persons applying for international protection. nevertheless, it does have advances. we therefore approve the council's position at first reading.
in writing. − many food banks in the eu depend on european support for their operations. the most vulnerable in our society must not be made the victims of the member states' prattle on the european multiannual budget. we have all committed ourselves to ensuring that by 2020 there are 20 million fewer poor people in europe. then we must now put our words into action and not leave the weakest in the cold. it is essential that all member states join in, that we at least keep the amount at the same level and make it clear that - especially in this deep economic crisis - we are in solidarity across borders.
in writing. i welcome the negotiating mandate we have given to the representative of the european parliament for the next european fund for the most deprived (efad). my colleagues and i are clearly asking that the fund be able to have the same amount as that allocated to the previous programme, namely 500 million euros a year! this is all the more important since the fund will no longer be concerned with providing food aid to the most vulnerable among us, but with providing material aid as well! with the crisis hitting citizens hard, the number of people in need is increasing. it is therefore essential to provide the fead with the means necessary to achieve its objectives.
in writing. the eu's europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce by 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in addition, 43 million europeans do not have access to sufficient quantities of food of appropriate quality. in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the figures are becoming even more alarming. it is therefore a priority to continue the programme of aid to the poorest to enable member states to use public stocks of surplus food as part of food aid.
in writing. the figures are staggering: 40 million europeans are living in poverty, including 25 million children who will have less chance of realising their full potential. in the face of the crisis and budgetary constraints, it would be completely incomprehensible for europe to end its food distribution programme by the end of 2013. and for good reason, since 19 million europeans are dependent on food packages. parliament therefore supported this afternoon the establishment of a european fund for the most deprived, which will combat food deprivation, homelessness and the material deprivation of children. the initiative is essential, but this new instrument must be given sufficient resources. however, only 2.5 billion euros are budgeted for the period 2014-2020. that is far too little and fortunately parliament has asked for the budget to be raised to 3.5 billion, as requested by its committee on social affairs. it has, however, rejected the idea that member states should contribute to the fund on a voluntary basis, which i regret. this would have allowed member states to allocate the money available to other projects, especially social projects, which are also governed by cohesion policy. the message is clear, however, that aid to the poor is not negotiable.
in writing. i have of course supported this text of which i am co-rapporteur. today parliament votes on a new version of aid for the most deprived. among the important achievements after months of bitter debate was the increase of €1 billion in the annual food aid budget from €2.5 billion to €3.5 billion, a drop in the overall european budget but an ocean for those who have been brought to their knees.
i voted for the report on eurodac because it can be a useful instrument in the fight against illegal immigration, against organised crime and against terrorism. it is good that the police services of the member states can have access to the data of eurodac. the left in this parliament is opposing this without offering any alternative. i do have reservations about a number of amendments which have been incorporated in this proposal. for example, amendment no 41, which states that the fact that a person is temporarily or permanently unable to provide usable fingerprints should not have a negative impact on the legal situation of that person or on his application for international protection. such a thing could open the door wide to abuse. what if people refuse to give a fingerprint and dress that refusal as an impossibility? people with bad intentions will eagerly take advantage of it.
in writing. the aim of the asylum package voted on today was to harmonise european asylum policy so that every asylum seeker who needs protection gets it. in this way, every asylum seeker would have the same rights and equal treatment of his or her asylum application in each member state. however, this objective has been completely eroded by the member states, which means that there is no longer any question of an efficient and humane treatment of asylum seekers. the dublin iii regulation, the procedural and reception directives were already approved in the parliamentary committee. i am voting against the eurodac regulation today because it encourages discrimination and criminalisation of asylum seekers. the eurodac regulation concerns the storage of fingerprints of asylum seekers and the use of these data in the database. police services, including europol, could use this data in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. even after asylum seekers obtain status, their data is retained for three years instead of being deleted immediately. the greens maintain that law enforcement and bodies such as europol should have as little access to the database as possible and that it should be strictly controlled. because asylum seekers are not criminals, they're just running away.
in writing. third country organised crime networks attempt to abuse the asylum system in order to bring criminal members of a network into a member state of the union and to make contacts with them in the course of their criminal activities. once on the territory of a member state, these members of the organised crime network apply for asylum under false identities in order to be able to stay legally in the european union with a clean criminal record. in addition, reports suggest that traffickers also attempt to abuse the asylum system by lodging asylum applications by lying about their country of origin. to address these concerns, i welcome the possibility for the designated authorities of the member states and the european police office (europol) to request the comparison of fingerprint data according to a match/non-match system with those recorded in the eurodac database for the fight against terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. i believe that giving access to eurodac for law enforcement purposes is a significant step forward compared to the previous proposal. i support the commission's proposal, however.
the report on common rules on the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls in exceptional circumstances is a measure for nothing, as is the commission's proposal. this report further weakens the commission's already weak proposal, inter alia by amendment no 4, which states, and i quote, 'complete freedom of movement within the area without internal border controls must be guaranteed and the reintroduction of internal border controls by member states for political reasons must be avoided'. this is a perfect summary of the alien philosophy of eu meddling. a philosophy which in no way takes account of the situation on the ground. the member states must once again be able to determine who enters their territory and under what conditions, and all without eu interference.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the european union's most important and tangible achievements. but that free movement and open borders are only sustainable if security is also guaranteed. our area without internal frontiers can only be sustained if it is accompanied by far-reaching and intensive cooperation between the member states in the field of justice and police. criminals are using open borders as a tool to evade police forces, whose powers are often limited to their own national territory. for example, the border region in south-west flanders and northern france is all too often confronted with criminals who commit robberies just across the border and then disappear as quickly as possible across the border, where they can no longer be apprehended efficiently by the police of the neighbouring country. therefore, it is important that member states also have the possibility to temporarily reintroduce border controls as a last resort when there is a serious threat to internal security, in particular as a result of organised crime.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the european union's greatest achievements, and eu citizens benefit from the possibility of travelling from one member state to another without being stopped or checked at the border. the schengen agreement is therefore an important building block of european union unity. the reform of the schengen area is an essential subject of this report. in order to ensure the free movement of eu citizens and to avoid unilateral and opaque national decisions, uniform rules for the reintroduction of border controls should be established in the future. these arrangements do include the exceptional cases and the time limit which member states may provide for the reintroduction of border controls at the internal borders of the eu. however, the decision to reintroduce border controls remains a matter for the member states alone. i welcome that as well as the fact that it is envisaged that the eu commission should monitor the actions of the member states.
in writing. migration as such is not a threat to public order and national security. zero immigration does not exist, has never existed and will never exist. no coercive, repressive or security measures can ever prevent a person from taking his chances elsewhere to secure the minimum of dignity to which every human being legitimately aspires. migration flows alone cannot justify the reintroduction of internal border controls. the right to free movement may not be affected by a decision of either member state. the schengen borders code already allows for the reintroduction of internal border controls in the event of a serious threat to public policy and internal security. the new possibility of reintroducing internal border controls must remain an exception and can only be possible as a last resort following persistent shortcomings in external border controls. the commission will then make the proposal after an in-depth evaluation. free movement is one of the most important achievements of european integration. the commission's proposal is to be based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
in writing. free movement is a founding principle of the european union, and the ability to move within the union without having to undergo internal border controls is one of its greatest achievements. i would stress that immigration, in itself, does not constitute a threat to public order and national security. i therefore categorically oppose any attempt to introduce new grounds, such as migration flows, to justify the reintroduction of internal border controls. the root cause of these problems is not external but internal. indeed, these recent events are symptomatic of the fact that the current schengen system, which is based on an intergovernmental peer review system, is not strong enough to address the weaknesses of some of its members and to prevent possible abuses. the european union must now act to ensure that such events cannot happen again and that the proportionality of any measure to reintroduce internal border controls is properly assessed, as requested by the european council in june last year.
i voted against the coelho report because it shows a profound alienation from the world. for example, amendment no 3 states, and i quote, 'the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the union and is most appreciated by citizens because it guarantees free movement'. we might wonder if this is a passage from a satirical text. we might wonder if it's meant to be sarcastic. if schengen is indeed one of the greatest achievements of the union, then the union must be urgently and fundamentally called into question. the internal border controls have been abolished, but the external borders are as leaky as a sieve. all of this leads to even more immigration nuisance and a plaster on a wooden leg, like setting up an evaluation mechanism, will not change that at all.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which introduces a genuine community method for assessing the application of the schengen rules. the method used to be purely intergovernmental and the european commission will now be much more involved in the evaluation process. there will be more scope for compelling member states which are resistant to compliance with all agreements to incorporate corrective processes into their national policies. the commission's evaluation action will also be monitored by parliament, which implies better democratic control and greater transparency.
in writing. − the reform adopted today is an excellent way of strengthening the mobility of european citizens. i am pleased that the european commission, as guardian of the european treaties, is now given the opportunity to identify serious shortcomings in the application of the schengen rules and to propose solutions, with the involvement of the council and the european parliament. this should prevent trade-offs between member states over border controls and provide more leverage in situations that put great pressure on countries. the circumstances in which border controls may be used as a last resort are now more clearly defined. the eu must do more. strengthening external border controls through a reinforcement of frontex and a common european asylum and migration policy are both necessary to maintain freedom of movement without internal border controls. fortunately, the community method has succeeded in this case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, we have managed to find a balanced european approach without sacrificing the prerogatives of the member states to be able to do what is necessary in exceptional circumstances to guarantee public order or internal security.
in writing. i consider this new mechanism more european, more transparent, more efficient and more rigorous to be a huge step forward compared to the current situation. it provides the tools to identify and correct, from the outset, any shortcomings in the application of the schengen rules by member states, thus contributing to the preservation of the schengen area as an area without internal borders and to the protection of the free movement of citizens. for all these reasons, and in view of the satisfactory guarantees given as regards the institutional role of the european parliament, i nevertheless approve of this compromise.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i believe that annual financial statements prepared in accordance with the principle of prudence should give a true picture of the financial position of the company. annual financial statements have different objectives and do not simply provide information to investors on capital markets but also report on past transactions and serve corporate governance. european accounting rules must strike a fair balance between the interests of the recipients of the financial statements and the interest of an undertaking not to be unduly burdened with information requirements.
in writing. transparency of information in a company is a good indicator of the dynamism of the governance of that company. country-by-country reporting is of considerable importance to extractive companies but also to investors promoting good governance at the global level. therefore, in order to promote transparency, equal conditions of competition throughout the eu and the opening up of financial markets, i wholeheartedly support this text.
in writing. in a context of increasing volatility in global financial markets, investors are increasingly demanding information on investor practices. it is clear that they want more transparency so that they can have a complete economic picture of investments and risks. in addition, transparency in terms of the publication of information is a good indicator of the dynamism of corporate governance. companies are increasingly adopting corporate governance standards, including transparency, by joining global reporting systems such as the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti), in addition to voluntary guidelines for multinational companies. in the light of all these initiatives, there is a risk that the question of transparency will now be answered in a fragmented way. this legislative proposal is part of the european union's corporate responsibility initiative and follows on from work on financial sector reform, the main objective of which is to promote the transparency and openness of financial markets and to establish higher standards of corporate governance.
in writing. in the light of the context, i believe it is appropriate, at this stage of the procedure, to calculate the necessary adjustment rate for the applications submitted in 2013 in the light of the european parliament's negotiating mandate on the amendment of the direct payments regulation (com (2011) 0625), adopted in strasbourg on 13 march 2013. in its proposed amendment to annex ii, parliament is using the ceilings proposed by the commission in its original proposal on the cfp, presented in 2011, as amended to take account of the forthcoming accession of croatia (com (2012) 388), to calculate the distribution of direct payments. i therefore suggest an amendment which reduces the adjustment rate for direct payments for applications submitted in 2013 to 0.748005%, instead of the 4.981759% proposed by the commission. this percentage is based on an estimate provided by the commission itself at the request of the rapporteur. this proposal does not of course include the crisis reserve, since the commission, in its proposal presented in 2011, envisaged creating the reserve outside the cfp.
in writing. i am not satisfied with all aspects of the text. however, the present proposal, although of a rather technical nature, constitutes added value in the evolution of the schengen acquis. it brings immediate benefits, while facilitating and evolving border controls and building trust and solidarity in the schengen area. the message it sends is clear: despite the difficult period the european union is going through, it remains faithful to its integration process and to its values, which guarantee peace, security and prosperity on the continent. the union remains convinced that common challenges can only be met by shared objectives and visions, and that cooperation and mutual solidarity are essential.
in writing. this draft decision lays down the composition of the european parliament as from 2014. twelve member states, including belgium, will each lose one seat but no additional seat will be allocated to any state. this new allocation of seats preserves the overall balance of the institutional system, while taking into account the arrival of croatian members and thus remaining in line with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. we vote in favour of the proposal for a council decision establishing the composition of the european parliament and welcome our new croatian colleagues.
in writing. i welcome the motion for a resolution on investments in the social field for growth and cohesion. family incomes are falling, poverty is increasing, inequalities are widening and unemployment is rising - all of which highlights the need to accompany the fiscal consolidation measures that have been favoured so far by social investment. social investment is a key element in getting back on the path to growth and full employment, especially in times of economic crisis. improving the sustainability of the social sector will strengthen social cohesion in the european union and competitiveness within the union.
in writing. investing in the social sector is essential if we are to emerge from the crisis stronger, more united and more competitive. within their current budgetary constraints, member states need to focus their investments on human capital and social cohesion, which can really make a difference if we are to make real progress towards the europe 2020 goals.
in writing. i welcome this report on regional policy. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. focusing on the regions that need it most and where the impact could be highest could have a significant effect on the internal market i regret, however, that the european parliament is only consulted on such an important subject.
in writing. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, cohesion policy should pay particular attention to the economic, social and territorial situation of disadvantaged and less developed regions. the treaty also provides that aid to improve the structural, economic and social situation of less developed regions is to be considered compatible with the internal market of the union. although the two eu policies on state aid and cohesion are set in different contexts, they share certain common values, namely helping less developed regions, promoting their development and supporting regions with lower living standards or those affected by unemployment. the union institutions should aim at a coordinated approach to these two policies.
in writing. competition enhances the talent, creativity and merits of a company and is a real lever for economic growth. it is one of the pillars of the community project and makes it possible to exploit the potential of the internal market. therefore, any obstacle to it must be removed. competition policy in this context makes it possible to reconcile the interests of firms, consumers and new entrants to the market.
in writing. competition policy is an integral part of the union's genetic code. the three instruments of competition policy aim to maintain a level playing field and an open and dynamic market. this encourages companies to seek success on their own merits (price, quality and innovation) in order to meet the needs, preferences and wishes of intermediate and final consumers. the european social market economy would be unthinkable without competition. competition allows for fair price formation, proper allocation and use of resources and social progress. from a strategic point of view, it is fundamental for the survival of the union's businesses, economy and societal model in a globalised world. it is a matter of values and therefore of added value. to succeed, competition policy needs greater legitimacy and efficiency. progress requires involving the european parliament in the formulation of competition policy, ensuring that the commission has sufficient resources and enhancing the involvement of civil society stakeholders. our ambition is to consolidate the culture of competition in the union and in the world.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution in which we deplore the council's failure to take up its responsibilities and thus lack ambition in the responses it proposes to combat the crisis. the council is continually postponing important decisions on the future architecture of economic and monetary union. i see the influence of national elections. i regret that national agendas are determining the community agenda, to the detriment of the urgent actions to be taken to combat the crisis more effectively. in connection with the measures to be taken against the crisis, i also regret that the eu's participation in the troika is not controlled by the european parliament, which would strengthen european democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, recalling that a strengthened emu should not divide the union but, on the contrary, create deeper integration and stronger governance, open to all member states that are not part of the euro area on a voluntary basis. the commission should also be reminded that it alone has the power of legislative initiative and that it must therefore table its 'detailed plan for a genuine and thoroughgoing economic and monetary union' as soon as possible. the commission has also been concerned about the delays in the creation of the banking union and the practical arrangements for direct recapitalisation of banks by the esm.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, stressing in particular the urgency for the european council and the commission to step up their efforts to combat youth unemployment as part of a wider movement to promote social rights and address social inequalities within the european union. in addition, the commission and the member states should be asked to adopt a rights-based approach to youth and employment. similarly, the commission should be invited to develop more detailed recommendations on the possibility of defining, within the union, a common level of unemployment compensation based on the previous income of the unemployed.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it reaffirms the commitment to the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which should, as a whole, give european citizens better and wider access to union documents. the commission should also be invited to make a full effort to amend regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 or to take all appropriate measures to break the deadlock. finally, the council should be invited to resume the debate on regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 immediately, adopt its position at first reading and continue the negotiations on the
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me say that i found the first statements by the european union, on 2 and 9 june, inappropriate, at least in one aspect. mr füle was more outspoken when he went to turkey, but in both statements, of 2 and 9 june, mr füle, you not only expressed your concern, but more importantly, you asked for, and i quote, ‘restraint on all sides’. could you please explain what sort of restraint you expected from the peaceful demonstrators on taksim square? they were peaceful demonstrators confronted by brutal police forces and facing tear gas, water cannons and rubber bullets. i was surprised – to be honest i was disappointed – that the union has again chosen to be ambivalent in the face of what is a clear violation of human rights by a state that is currently a candidate for accession to the european union. what has happened in turkey is a clear violation of human rights, and we all know that it is not an isolated case. in turkey in recent years we have seen a growing deterioration of the fundamentals of democracy. look at the media for example. hannes swoboda has already given this as an example. i would call turkey today, mr swoboda, the biggest prison for journalists in the world. in the reporters without borders press freedom index, it was ranked 154th, just three places above the last dictatorship in europe, belarus. that is what is happening today in turkey. in my opinion – and i did not hear this from the european union in its message – what is happening in turkey is constant abuse by an overbearing state. i call it a ‘tyranny of a majority’, in the words of john stuart mill, a system in which decisions taken by a majority are always more important than the rights of minorities and the rights of individual people. this trend goes beyond turkey. look at mr putin in russia and even mr orbán in hungary. here we are talking about turkey and mr erdoğan. let me be clear, i am not questioning – and i do not ask you to question – the democratic mandate of the elected government of turkey. what i am questioning – and what i am asking you to stand up against – is the deterioration of a democracy that is becoming more and more what i call a democratura. my group is a strong supporter of a european choice for turkey, but, let me clear, not a turkey that turns its back on european principles and values.
blue-card answer. – i do not think that turkey is a non- european country. if you go to istanbul you are in constantinople, and constantinople in my opinion was always part of europe. moreover, the porte of the ottoman empire was always one of the allies of europe. so for me it is not a question of religion. i think we are multicultural and multi-religious in europe and there can be a place for turkey in europe if – and that is the point – if they apply european values and european principles, freedom of speech and a real democracy. that is the key issue. they are the copenhagen criteria; not an old fashioned discussion about culture and languages. i know what i am talking about; i come from belgium!
let us be honest, the commission's extremely weak reaction to the events in turkey has made the eu totally untrustworthy. the eu is painfully embarrassed by the islamist government of erdogan, which continues to take all the credit and at the same time does everything that is contrary to the conditions for joining the european union. if i hear mrs ashton and the other members on the left, the systematic violations of human rights are precisely the argument to reward the turkish government and open new chapters in the negotiations. we need to get rid of that kind of crooked thinking. at the beginning of the negotiations it was said that these negotiations could be stopped at any time if it turned out that turkey did not meet the conditions. well, what more do we need? the non-european turkey was not even enough to start the negotiations. now, these negotiations must be stopped. they must be stopped now and permanently.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in turkey. the fear that turkey is sliding into a state in which the authoritarian approach takes precedence over free choices, over civil rights. democratic states respect freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly. turkey must actually apply those freedoms and not just - as commissioner füle said earlier and as the high representative, mrs ashton, reiterated - pursue the highest possible democratic standards and practices. not to strive, but to apply. freedom and freedom of the press in particular - and i am a former journalist myself - are the immune system of a healthy society. but ankara seems to want to take a fundamentally different path, and follow the authoritarian middle east course or become russia on the bosporus. if democracy in turkey is nothing more than a mask, and the state is now showing its true face, conclusions must be drawn, particularly for the accession negotiations. that is exactly what is said in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, with the treaty of lisbon the european common foreign and defence policy has come of age, laying out as it did the foundation for a truly common european diplomatic service. of course we could not call it a diplomatic service because only member states have diplomatic services and therefore it is called an external action service. for the same reason, there are no eu embassies but instead there are eu delegations and their heads cannot carry the title of ambassadors – lest the earl of dartmouth should choke – so they are heads of delegations. all of this may seem petty and so it is. however, it reveals the misgivings of the foreign ministries of the member states and their initial reluctance to cooperate with this very new kid on the block. the mere existence of a reasonably well-functioning eeas less than three years after it started is a very positive element in itself and a kind of little miracle in which we should rejoice. of course there is room for lots of improvement. the combination of three hats – high representative, chair of the foreign affairs council and vice-president of the commission, would require superhuman strength and ubiquity. now you do have a lot of stamina, lady ashton, as we all know, but still, there is room for one or several deputies who should also be able to represent the function of high representative on a political level. there is a need for flexibility to allow for adaptation to rapidly changing situations, and there is a need to avoid overlap and, alas, turf wars among various eu institutions themselves.
i am a little sorry, mr president, to have to break the prevailing consensus, but it is rather my impression that the european external action service is almost a textbook example of how it should not be and how it absolutely should not be further in the labyrinth of the european institutions. the recommendations on which we are going to vote tomorrow, i can endorse them, i will approve them. it's about potential improvements. but i still think it's a courier at symptom. for even if some manifest abuses were to be eliminated, even if baroness ashton were to retire tomorrow, even if an unmistakable kind of profiteering and the overpayment of a number of so-called european diplomats were to be tackled, the central problem would still remain. the european union is not a federal state, it is not ready for a unified foreign policy and therefore not ready for a unified diplomacy. it is regrettable, and i regret it, but i do not think we have the right to continue pumping hundreds of millions of euros every year into a project that is barely worth the effort and which continues to exist alongside the existing diplomacies of the member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate our colleague mr millán mon on his excellent report, to which my group has tried to contribute and which we have approved in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). on the relationship with the united states, one can take either a benevolent or a malevolent view, possibly depending on our temper or on the news that reaches us. the benevolent view is that there is an almost complete communality of interests, of principles, of values; that we are trusted partners for ever and ever, and that nothing can come between us. the malevolent view is of course the opposite, and suspects the united states to be ready to swallow us up alive as soon as it can. i take neither of these views; i believe that the truth is somewhere in the middle. but neither do i share the defeatism that i note in several reactions to the prospect of the start of negotiations on the trade and investment partnership. i have noted a very interesting study published by mr pierre defraigne, who was chief of staff to pascal lamy when he was trade commissioner, in which he warns against strictly bilateral negotiations between the eu and the us, saying that we are bound to lose. mr defraigne argues that we are bound to lose because we do not form as strong a bloc as the united states and we do not have the same resolve, and he warns against this approach. i do not share this pessimism, but of course the recent revelations about prism are not exactly reassuring. i would say to the commission, to the high representative, to everybody involved: start negotiations, but please do not be naïve.
in writing. i will repeat what i have already said when the eu-us agreement was being prepared. we will not sell the rights of european citizens. are we going to eat our fill of america at the expense of our values? will we give up our hard-won european environmental standards? will we abandon our strict food safety rules, lowering our vigilance on animal hormones or gmos by one or more steps? will there be another attempt to undermine the protection of the data of europeans? are we planning to undermine the social clauses protecting workers or to encourage social dumping? i refuse! moreover, the weakness of our monetary policy cannot lead us to a balance between our economies. i will vote against this text, not because i am against negotiations with the united states, but because there are certain things about which we cannot compromise!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 june 2013 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation of the committee on development on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement amending for the second time the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000, as first amended in luxembourg on 25 june 2005 (16894/2011 - c7-0469/2011 - 2011/0207nle)) (rapporteur: michael cashman) (a7-0110/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 june 2013 at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. the epas are not intended to favour europeans. it is not a question of opening up markets to european companies at the expense of acp producers, as some have wrongly claimed. the epas must eventually replace unilateral trade preferences, which unfortunately have failed to help the acp countries integrate into the world economy. they are also a response to protests from wto member countries. these negotiations, which have been underway for more than 10 years, must be concluded, because every day that passes without an epa is a lost opportunity for the developing countries to access globalisation and international markets.
in writing. i approved the text as it would send a strong signal to the whole of the central african region, showing the importance of trade relations. the stage apa should become a powerful catalyst for enhanced integration in central africa, with long-term positive spill-over effects. the vision of a continental free trade area can only be realised when integration between african regional groupings has been deepened.
in writing. since the first revision of the cotonou agreement, the international landscape has changed considerably. the acp-eu relationship is faced with fundamental challenges (food, energy, economic and financial crisis, climate change) at the global, european and acp levels. so we feel that the member states want to reduce official development aid. we may have to change the method, but we certainly must not reduce the amount of aid. there is no reason why we should not honour our commitments to devote 0.7% of gdp to development. i am opposed to reducing official development aid under the pretext of changing the nature of cooperation. i would also like to stress the importance of the parliamentary dimension of the cotonou agreement and therefore i am firmly opposed to reducing the role of the joint parliamentary assembly, particularly as regards the frequency of its meetings.
in writing. i have serious reservations about certain parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and the values of the european union at all. i hesitated before giving my possible agreement, but perhaps it will give the commission and the eeas a bargaining power in the two years before the third review. i would stress that it is essential to amend properly, at the time of the third revision of the agreement, the clauses which are considered unsatisfactory, in particular article 8 (4), in accordance with our treaties and the values we defend. the union should adopt a more development and human rights-oriented approach in international negotiations in the future, taking into account the human development of the citizens of the partner countries. i believe that such an approach will be beneficial to all parties.
in writing. freedom of the press and media is a fundamental right within the european union, therefore we must lead the way in guaranteeing freedom of the press and media everywhere. independent media is a strong sign of democracy and the eu must take a stronger stance towards countries where persecution of journalists goes unpunished
in writing. governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting freedom of the press and media. they are also primarily responsible for the restrictions on freedom of the press and media. in the most serious cases, they increasingly resort to legal pressure, for example by abusing anti-terrorism or anti-extremism legislation, as well as national security, treason or subversion laws, in order to restrict this freedom. a balance needs to be struck between national security issues and freedom of information in order to prevent abuse and guarantee the independence of the press and media. media empires in the hands of political figures sometimes engage in campaigns of disinformation. i would stress that it is essential that the press and the media can operate independently, without being subject to political or financial pressure. finally, i am alarmed by the general downward trend in the ranking of press and media freedom environments in different countries, both inside and outside europe.
in writing. the public sector is the largest source of public data. this data contributes to transparency in governance, openness to the public, job creation and represents potential for businesses in these times of financial crisis. the reuse of this information promotes economic growth and generates good revenues while keeping costs low. i also welcome the extension of the scope of the text to cultural information in europe. for all these reasons i support the whole text.
in writing. open data policies that encourage the widespread availability and re-use of public sector information for private or commercial purposes with minimal or no legal, technical or financial constraints, and that promote the flow of information not only for economic actors but also for citizens, as well as the free movement of persons within the union, and always with respect for fundamental rights, can play a key role in stimulating the development of new services based on innovative ways of combining and using such information, in driving economic growth and in promoting social engagement. however, the rules on whether documents can be reused or not should be the same at union level and such harmonisation cannot be achieved by relying on the different rules and practices of the member states and public bodies concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on financial services: no progress in the council and delay by the commission in adopting certain proposals. it is inconceivable that decisions taken by this democratically elected body should remain dead letters!
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the situation in turkey. this resolution gives an overview of what is wrong in turkey, without however addressing two essential points: the european union is also concerned about the further islamisation of the akp government and the eu's position on the accession negotiations with turkey. there is no point in being constantly "concerned" about the situation in turkey and turning a blind eye to the real cause: the islamism of prime minister erdogan and his supporters. voters in the member states expect the eu to keep its word and to halt the accession negotiations with turkey. the resolution avoids this fundamental issue and thus shows political cowardice.
in writing. four people have been killed in clashes between police and protesters in turkey. how many more will have to pay with their lives for the courage of their convictions? for the past three weeks, the turkish government has been unmasking itself and getting bogged down in denial of reality. more than 60 of the country's 81 provinces are experiencing protests, and the repression is becoming more violent. a simple real estate project set fire to the powder, as if the revolt was brewing but had not yet found the words to express itself and the courage to assert itself. with my colleagues in the liberal group i tabled a resolution on the situation in turkey which was adopted by the european parliament this afternoon. it is our duty to uphold the principles of the rule of law, human rights and freedom of expression. there is great anxiety, and police brutality is becoming increasingly unbearable. this crisis, while regrettable, could be the first step towards a process of reform in the country. would it be too much to say that turkey is a candidate for membership of the european union? in any case, it will have to resume its necessary march towards democracy.
in writing. the turkish authorities must take urgent measures to prevent further injuries, to enforce the fundamental rights of protesters and to ensure the safety of the population as a whole. other civil society organisations have taken similar action. the extremely brutal repression of the totally peaceful demonstrations in taksim square is truly outrageous. it has greatly aggravated the situation on the streets of istanbul, where dozens of people have been injured. european observers found that water cannons were used against both peaceful protesters and those who threw stones at police. the inappropriate use of tear gas has had particularly devastating effects on the safety of protesters, causing countless injuries. some protesters were seriously wounded in the head after being hit by tear gas canisters fired by the police. at the protest site, the ground is still littered with hundreds of empty tear gas canisters.
in writing. - finally, there are some more critical voices in this parliament about whether turkey is a suitable candidate country for the european union. the progressive islamization with all its consequences, not least the increasing repression of dissent, as is the case everywhere in islamic countries, is eye-opening. but the point is, of course, that turkey is not a european country, as guy verhofstadt, who has no geographical or historical knowledge, might claim. we're losing precious time and precious opportunities. we must now stop the eu accession negotiations and set in motion as soon as possible a worthy agreement on economic, political and military cooperation.
in writing. the eeas is a good step towards the creation of a genuine european foreign policy. it is true that progress still needs to be made to make this service fully functional and to ensure that external crisis management is carried out in a rapid and coordinated manner between the commission and the council. we also need to improve our visibility. however, the commission's hr/vp, catherine ashton, must also be given the means to achieve the objectives of the eeas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i encourage the eeas to strengthen its role in international negotiations on political and foreign policy issues, including by using the diplomatic tools at its disposal to promote the international criminal court (icc), to remind third countries, and in particular developing countries, that have not yet done so, of the need to support the icc and to sign or ratify its statute, and to include binding clauses in agreements with third countries requiring them to cooperate with the icc or to impose restrictive measures against persons brought before the icc.
in writing. − this resolution undoubtedly makes a number of recommendations which could improve the functioning of the eu's de facto diplomatic service - even if the child is not allowed to bear that name. the question remains, however, whether it is justifiable to pump half a billion euros into a foreign service every year at a time when there is still no real common foreign policy. the fact that baroness ashton is now blaming the unreasonable and even shameful privileges enjoyed by european luxury diplomats in recent years is now becoming a matter of record. the edeo has had a particularly bad start. it is very much a question of whether our recommendations, even if they are followed, can be more than a blanket for bleeding.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. violence, persecution and discrimination against people belonging to religious communities and minorities, or against people who do not hold religious beliefs, continue in many parts of the world. the lack of religious tolerance and openness to dialogue and the lack of ecumenical coexistence often lead to political tensions, violence and armed conflict, which endanger lives and threaten regional stability. in my view, the european union's swift and unreserved condemnation of all forms of violence and discrimination should be a fundamental aspect of the european union's policy on freedom of religion or belief. particular attention should be paid to the situation of those who change their religion or belief, since in practice they are subject to social pressure, intimidation or overt violence.
in writing. close cooperation is needed with partners who share our values, principles and interests. the expansion of this partnership is a historic opportunity. a free trade area will strengthen ties with a friendly country, revitalize our economies and create growth and jobs. it gives the eu the opportunity to play a central role in an increasingly complex world.
in writing. i abstained on the role of the european union in promoting a broader transatlantic partnership. i am not against an agreement with the united states, with which i am glad we have good relations, but paragraph 4, which cannot be amended, was a problem for me. i have therefore decided not to vote against a good report.
in writing. the malian conflict goes beyond the borders of mali, the region, the sahel, africa. it is a global issue, closely linked to terrorism. the cause of the conflict is not malian, tuareg or ethnic: it was initiated by non-malian movements (aqmi, mnla, jao, ansrdine, mia). the first priority right now is securing the country. only the cessation of hostilities will create the security conditions necessary for the holding of free and transparent presidential elections throughout the territory. the kidal issue must therefore be resolved through dialogue as soon as possible and the situation in the north (ménaka, gao, timbuktu) calmed down. in this respect, i strongly support the mediation currently under way under the auspices of president blaise compaoré (ecowas mediator for mali) between the mnla, the high council of azawad, the malian authorities and representatives of the international and subregional community, with a view to reaching an agreement.
in writing. the amount announced two weeks ago to rebuild mali is the total of pledges of donations. if they are implemented, they will have to be followed up closely. the european union and france, which are co-organisers of the event, will contribute €520 million and €280 million respectively. "a major effort at the moment, and i have not yet asked the commission to take this amount out of our deficit", the french president quipped. non-governmental organizations have pointed out that in reality, more than half of the amount announced by paris comes from funds already committed and frozen following the march 2012 coup d'état in bamako. let's make sure this country doesn't sink back into integrity, because money alone is useless.
in writing. this agreement comes at a crucial time for afghanistan, which is at a crossroads. this long-term agreement is essential to support the country in its transition process, in which the european union is fully involved. this agreement is also essential to give afghanistan the means to establish a functioning, peaceful state with strong democratic institutions and an independent economy.
in writing. i take this vote to speak about the attacks by armed groups on humanitarian organisations, which are war crimes and must stop immediately. organisations such as the icrc must be able to carry out their vital, life-saving work without fear of being the target of violence. this attack is an affront to humanity. the perpetrators of the jalalabad attack must be brought to justice and tried in accordance with international law and international standards. attacks deliberately targeting humanitarian personnel are strictly prohibited by international law and constitute war crimes. the taliban and other armed groups must immediately cease attacks on humanitarian targets in afghanistan. countless afghans depend on the work of these organizations. afghanistan has some of the worst health indicators in the world and a chronic lack of access to health care. the deliberate targeting of humanitarian organisations is detrimental to the health and well-being of the afghan population, particularly in remote and conflict-affected areas.
in writing. − the 8 millennium development goals, which aim to halve poverty, reduce hiv/aids and get children into primary education by 2015, among other things, will be evaluated this year by the un to define a new strategy for the post-2015 period. the report, although strengthened by strong green amendments and putting the finger on the wound, is a bit like a christmas tree and falls somewhat short of its recommendations for a post-2015 strategy. on the positive side, specific targets are suggested to close the gender gap in education, to curb all forms of violence against women, to ensure better access to basic health care, safe drinking water and sanitation, to introduce minimum social rights, to regulate funding beyond 2015 through binding legislation, namely through the 0.7% of the development budget, to create own resources in the eu budget and to reserve parts for sustainable development and climate change. full employment and decent work should also become a central objective of the post-2015 development agenda. i can only endorse this analysis!
in writing. a coordinated and coherent position of the european union on the post-2015 development framework is absolutely essential, given the process of preparing for the next special event of the un general assembly, otherwise we risk seriously losing the current momentum. as un secretary-general ban ki-moon has said, "achieving the mdgs by 2015 will be difficult, but it is possible". the economic crises currently affecting most of the developed world must not be allowed to hold back the progress made so far. we must build on the victories already won. the european union must formulate a coherent position, building on the mdg framework and on future achievements in the field of sustainable development goals. i support a framework for the period beyond 2015 that is global and accountable, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and coherent development policies, with the aim of building a just and sustainable world in which every human being can claim their rights and live free from poverty.
in writing. - we have just voted on yet another catalogue of good intentions and wishes, apparently on the assumption that continuing to pump massive amounts of money into developing countries is also effectively putting the brakes on the road. i am sorry, but the massive development aid of the last 40 years has in fact proved to be completely useless and perhaps even counterproductive, especially in africa. the former dutch minister for development cooperation, mr pronk, said that this was ten years ago and nothing has improved since then. it's high time for a little soul-searching. in particular, the massive direct aid to the governments of developing countries must be stopped immediately, given the manifest corruption there.
mr president, on wednesday we also have on the agenda the nsa surveillance programme. i understand that it will be of a broader scope than foreseen initially because of everything that has been happening and the new revelations on the spying programme. i think that mr barroso himself should be present for such a debate, and that it is not ms reding who deals with it. it is of such importance that i think you have to request mr barroso himself to be present for this important debate.
on behalf of the s&d group, president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the three rapporteurs and apologize to our shadow rapporteur, mrs ţicău. unfortunately, she was unable to attend today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the frequency of checks is based on a middle ground: four two two. we were in principle in favour, commissioner, of going for four-two-one, but we did not get enough support for that. but as you know, it remains possible for member states to carry out more frequent checks and therefore to be more stringent. as you know, there has been a great deal of discussion on the introduction of new types of vehicles into the system. my group is in principle in favour of developing tests for this in a generalised way throughout europe, because figures show that in countries which have introduced tests for motor vehicles there are indeed positive effects which reduce the number of accidents. i also know that a lot of motorists are fighting this and are very upset about it, but it is for their own safety and the safety of other road users that we have to go in that direction. the least we could do if we don't find a majority for that is do some extra study; we would then be able to come up with new proposals at a later stage if necessary. it is a positive thing that the caravans are also being integrated, for example, and that the directives are being refined as regards inspection equipment, training of inspectors, etc. it is also important - and this is the last point i want to make - that a number of positive points are added to the parliament's proposal on meter fraud, which should be generalized.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i shall deal with one point only, namely the technical inspection of two- and three-wheel motor vehicles, as provided for in the commission's proposal. the number of victims has dropped sharply in europe, and that's very good. nevertheless, motorcyclists are still overrepresented among the victims and, in particular, among the injured. i think it is therefore difficult to imagine that two- and three-wheel vehicles, because they have one less wheel than four-wheel vehicles, are exempt from technical inspection. i think motorcycles, especially big motorcycles, are as sophisticated as cars today. so, since nobody is disputing the technical control of cars, i don't see why, because we have one or two wheels less, we should escape this importance of technical control. although technical failures are only rarely the cause of motorcycle accidents, independent studies show that in five to ten per cent of cases they greatly aggravate the circumstances. so i don't really understand why we are deviating from this commission proposal, and i am defending the idea here that an amendment has been tabled to the effect that the date should be set at 2016 for large motorcycles, and 2018 for small ones. and the commission will show us if we must do otherwise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for their work. contrary to what some colleagues say, i am convinced that we need european regulation here. it's the holiday season. imagine if today the technical inspections were different in 27 countries and then they had to be repeated in each country. you should explain this to your citizens at home, that europe can also make life easier and not just harder, as you always say. the technical controls, as discussed here in the past, have, as i have just said, contributed to the improvement of technology. we have never had technology as good as we have today, which also serves to improve safety. thank god, the number of fatal accidents has dropped very sharply, by up to 40 percent in the last ten years. and last but not least, there is a positive impact on the environment. we have been right in supporting all this in parliament over the last few years. but we also don't want the control to become a nuisance tomorrow. control should further support this added value. i therefore believe that - perhaps because i come from the border region - we should look for the added value of cross-border checks. we have suggested that information on, for example, vehicle mileage or major accidents involving a car should be available at least to the buyer, because it has been shown that over 80% of the figures are wrong when a used vehicle is sold cross-border. this is also the european added value that we can create with such legislation. it is a simplification for the citizen who takes it to heart. the last point: the subject of trucks has been raised. it is true that there is, of course, not only a technical aspect to truck inspections, but also a socially important aspect. because if you drive a truck like this every day, you need to know that it's technically sound. but there is another aspect to be emphasized here: our legislation at eu level can be as good as it is, if the member states do not participate and do not carry out the control themselves, it will not do any good. there is a shared responsibility here. we are carrying it at eu level, and we want the countries to carry it at home by means of good controls.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, serious road traffic injuries are of course a real problem. around a quarter of a million people are reported to be seriously injured on eu roads every year. their lives are often changed forever. this is why the commission made the goal of reducing serious road traffic injuries a new and a key element of our road safety strategy, which was reflected already in the white paper of 2011. however, i must say that this idea met with considerable opposition from experts. new initiatives on serious injuries must be based on fact and for that we need to know how many serious injuries happen every year. the figures we have today are not reliable or comparable. member states use different definitions and methodology to gather data. there are also problems of misreporting and under-reporting. two months ago, as mr simpson mentioned, we proposed a common eu definition of serious injuries. this is a very important step forward. this will allow us to carry out the necessary cost-benefit analysis and then choose the most effective ways to reduce injuries. a common eu definition and reliable data are also a pre-requisite for setting an eu target. i very much appreciate parliament’s support for the idea of setting a strategic injury reduction target. that approach proved very useful for reducing fatalities, so i hope that we can repeat this success with reducing injuries. what happens now is that member states will collect the first figures during 2014. based on this information the commission will propose an ambitious target for reducing injuries. the areas we may want to look into together could include tools and techniques to limit the impact of a collision, to reduce the severity of injuries which cannot be avoided. this has been included to a certain degree in our proposal for the amendment of the weights and dimensions directive. as regards first-aid and emergency services: the aid received in the first hour after a crash is crucial for reducing the risk of severe consequences. again proposals have been made to introduce an ecall system and for in-depth crash injury research to support the development of safety measures and to better understand the causes of accidents. progress made towards reaching the injuries reduction target will be monitored, as will the fatality reduction target. here we have a common objective with member states. the objective of achieving a reduction in road deaths has been a common one; the work towards it has been very united, with a voluntary commitment from all actors.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i believe that all the political groups are very broadly in favour of this initiative, that road safety remains a major issue for us in the committee and that we should continue to take initiatives on this at european level. there are at least two good reasons for this: in the past, we have been able to prove through very concrete programmes and also very concrete targets that the number of deaths on the roads has been reduced by at least 40%. and if we have the courage to continue to do that in this area with the seriously injured, i believe we can achieve similar goals. and let those who think that europe is interfering too much here not intimidate you, because i believe that we can learn good things in every country and adopt good things, perhaps even in some legislation. the principle of subsidiarity has no place at all when it comes to this sensitive subject. we need really good numbers - you said that - we need reliable numbers. 70% are delivered. the figures could also be used to objectify the debates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to give us a clear answer. but the figures can also be a guide to decision-making. if we know tomorrow that, for example, in cities where you drive 30 km/h, there are much fewer accidents, then this is information that is useful for everyone. this is not interference with the subsidiarity of the member states. we need to pay particular attention to the less protected participants. but there is a very clear insight. driving behaviour remains one of the most important aspects of accidents: 1. speed, 2. drugs, alcohol and last but not least fatigue these are aspects that are important. but what is very often underestimated and where all authorities can work together - from the european to the local level - is infrastructure. we know that the infrastructure in many countries can be used to prevent injuries and even deaths on the road. and so i hope that tomorrow we're not just supporting four-star cars, but that tomorrow we're maybe supporting four-star roads in all countries. i think it would be good for all of us.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether any of you have ever had the opportunity or the sad circumstance, in the course of a previous mandate, of going to an announcement to a family about the death of a child, the death of a person, of a close friend, in a road accident. it's a traumatic experience! and even though the numbers are better today, the reality is that it is still a massacre, and a massacre with thousands of orphans, thousands of bereaved parents. so we have to act faster and stronger. and i would like to emphasize one aspect. i welcome the commission's strategy on the wounded. i think this is a great initiative and will help us to have more standardised figures and approaches, but i would like to go further on one specific aspect, namely the protection of the most vulnerable road users. in this sense, the whole conception of the car's place in society and, particularly, in our cities, needs to be revised. this requires work on the quality and design of infrastructure, of course, but also clear choices on how to share public space. it is not just a question of space left to the car, but also a question of speed and behaviour. just as traffic congestion makes public transport less attractive, the speed and dangers of cars are a real obstacle to walking or cycling, and in particular to daily school trips. and that is why i support the european citizens' initiative to make 30 km/h a universal feature in cities. but we also need an even more comprehensive approach to the safety of vulnerable users in urban areas. i am addressing myself to you, commissioner, but this problem may also concern your successor. i think we have come a long way at european level on the issue of more stringent regulations on passenger rights. that's good. that's good. i also believe that it is time to take the right of disabled people to travel safely a step further in the next parliament. it is high time that the right to move safely as pedestrians and cyclists should also be considered as one of the priorities of the european union.
as a member of the committee on human rights, i am concerned with human rights outside the eu, but also within the union. the way spain treats basque political prisoners has long been controversial. there are reports of human rights violations, specifically the prison regime, the incarceration of terminally ill people. last week i was in the basque country with some members of my group. in the prison of the neighbouring logroño we wanted to visit one of the prominent basque political prisoners. he has a number, but he also has a face and a name: i'm not sure i understand. at the beginning of june we submitted an official written request to the competent services to see him. we never got any answers. when we tried to contact them, we were sent from the locker to the wall and stopped at the prison gate. the way in which we have been treated as members of the european parliament by the spanish authorities is quite clearly outrageous. i therefore ask the president of this parliament to call the attention of the spanish authorities to this unacceptable attitude and to demand respect for the work of members of parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to tackle three topics in this debate: the agreement on the mff – which joseph daul has also mentioned – the non-agreement on the banking union – let us be honest: there was an agreement in ecofin on the resolution directive, but not on the main issue of the resolution fund – and the new revelations on nsa spying in the european union. firstly, on the agreement on the mff, we have taken the right decision to refuse the initial council proposal as it was presented to us a few months ago. because, as you will remember, the initial proposal offered no flexibility at all. in this agreement we now have close to full flexibility on the amounts. this means that we can now be very sure that the eur 908 billion in payments will be fully available. this was not the case in the mff for an amount of eur 55 billion. but we must not be naive in this debate. the fight is not over yet. there are a number of important outstanding issues. for example, we said that there should be no deficit; joseph daul said just that a few minutes ago. we need an agreement on the final eur 3.9 billion, and that has to be decided by the council. before we give our consent to this deal we must review it thoroughly, to be sure that the wording used by the council really is compulsory and binding. we also talked about new own resources. i hope also that the high-level group that the council has proposed can also start its work before we give our consent to this mff, to save us from having to start this work in a few years’ time. finally, we need a modern and innovative budget. we need to ensure that there is more money available for research, innovation and the digital agenda. my second point concerns the outcome of the european council. i deplore the fact that there are no paragraphs on the banking union in the conclusions. all the paragraphs on the banking union have been deleted from the conclusions. this means that we currently have no agreement about the banking union between the member states. we have general ideas and general principles, but no agreement on the resolution mechanism. that it this very important because it is the lack of a banking union that is the main problem today. mr van rompuy said that we need more oxygen in our economy. that is true, but the way to put oxygen in our economy is to restore the transfer of money from the banks to the real economy – small and medium-sized businesses – and that is not happening today. you can make plans for whatever money you like in the european investment bank and in the european budget, but if there is no transfer of real money from the banks to the small and medium economy, we will never emerge from the current economic stagnation. so my request to the commission is – as mr barroso has just said – is for this proposal of a resolution fund to be put on the table at the council as quickly as possible. let us stop this discussion for the moment. the council should take the initiative, and then we can start our legislative work on this resolution fund. i say the same thing for economic and monetary union. i was at the meetings with the member states with mr brok and mr gualtieri. no progress is being made. they cannot agree on the future architecture of the economic and monetary union. everything has been delayed until the end of the year. so i ask the council to put that proposal, based on the blueprint, on the table as well. finally my third point concerns the american spy scandal. we need to react firmly. it is now up to the european parliament to do that, because the statements by baroness ashton and mr van rompuy were worded too weakly. the only thing i heard from you is ‘we are concerned’. we are not concerned, we are angry. we are outraged about what is happening at the moment and what is being discovered. friends do not do that: spying in the eu embassy in washington, spying in the eu delegation in new york, spying in the council building in brussels, and probably also spying on our mailboxes and accounts. i am pretty sure that the americans already knew about the offshore tax haven that mr farage has created for himself on the isle of man before we did. i am pretty sure that they knew about it and did not tell us about it. yes, mr farage, you can laugh but you do not look very happy today. so we need full clarification. can we really continue with negotiations on data retention protection and data transfer? i am not talking about the fda. that would be an idiotic idea because we have an enormous interest in the fda. but why not put the other negotiations on hold? we also have to start a special inquiry in this parliament – a committee of inquiry or a special inquiry group in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs as soon as possible. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think an apology is the minimum we can ask from the american side. more has to be done. for example, the commission is currently negotiating on data protection, data transfer and on a number of files. why should we continue negotiations? first of all we need clarification on this, but i want to go further than only apologies. and i would like to see a special inquiry committee. we should set up a committee of inquiry or a special inquiry group in the european parliament in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. but what we also need is a genuine european parliament position before the end of the year on this and on the measures we are going to take, not just apologies. apologies are not enough.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the former yugoslavia. so the unbelievable becomes reality: the european union is not punishing but rewarding the indiscriminate police violence and the widespread human rights violations committed by the islamist erdogan regime. in 2004, voters were promised that the negotiations would be stopped if turkey flagrantly failed to play by the rules. it is now obvious that the voters have been lied to. turkey must and will become a member of the european union, come what may. the eu is proving that it has completely lost touch with the realities of the real world. the vast majority of voters are against the accession of turkey, an islamic and non-european country like turkey. but the eu does not take into account the will of the voters. and i can promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be a theme in the next european elections and that this attitude will be paid for.
mr president, i join the voices of those who, while acknowledging that there has been a compromise and that a compromise is better than nothing, say that this compromise, in any case, does not meet the immense needs of the people today and of those who still want to believe in europe. we talked about the young people. we said "well, there is the youth guarantee, there are things that will be done for them", but the one before me also said the problem is so important that this is a drop in the bucket. today's austerity plans are preventing countries from meeting their obligations. but europe is not the sufficient relay. i would like to return to a point which was not raised today. we're talking about the most vulnerable. there was not a word said about the fact that in these agreements today, development cooperation and humanitarian aid have been completely undermined. we now know that as a global partner, the european union has commitments to the third world, that there are commitments in crises that are predictable. it is not the flexibility instrument that should be used, it is not flexibility. we know that syria today is a disaster, we know that the sahel is a disaster and we are gladly cutting into that. so if we do nothing for our young people, if we do too little for the poorest and if we do not do enough in relation to the world crises, the very image of europe today will suffer. and i would like to see these considerations taken into account, since we are not yet exactly voting on the multiannual framework.
the fact that negotiations with the council have finally produced an acceptable compromise should not make us forget that the basic proposal adopted by the european council in february is a missed opportunity. by proposing a mff that is lower than the previous one, the european council has failed to make available the necessary resources for the objectives it has set itself, such as europe 2020, the growth pact for jobs and the new powers. and then it will be said that europe is not achieving its objectives. the reason is that the european budget is financed from national budgets. in order to meet the budgetary requirements of the european union, member states must save money and they want to do so on the european contribution. this is included in their budget as an expense. the only way out of this schizophrenic situation is to return to the treaties which stipulate that the european budget must be financed from own resources. new own resources for the eu will be accompanied by a reduction in the gni contribution, which will provide relief for national budgets. an intermediate step could be to place eu contributions outside the national budget and not to count towards the national deficit. this contribution will then be definitively acquired for the european union. the gni contribution will then be eligible for consideration as union own resources. this will immediately guarantee full flexibility at european level and put an end to a difficult debate on payment appropriations. finally, we must also abandon unanimity, because that is the way to negotiate.
in writing. we can be pleased that we were able to conclude the new procurement legislation during the irish presidency. increasing the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, facilitating access to markets for smes, ensuring compliance with good working conditions and environmental criteria: this text represents a clear step forward for all the actors in our society. many positive points can be highlighted: strengthened public-public cooperation; compliance with the rules including collective agreements between the economic and social partners; the fight against abnormally low tenders; the abandonment of the lowest bid at any price; transparency and accountability in the subcontracting chain; encouragement and improvement of electronic procedures. citizens expect every euro of public money to be spent in a useful, efficient and responsible way. this reform of public procurement was indispensable and will mark the daily lives of all the actors in our society.
in writing. the agreement on the next multiannual budget is a thin one. it may be the maximum that can be expected of the member states at the moment, but the result is still far from the minimum requirements set by parliament in its previous resolutions. the agreement gives the eu a budget for the next seven years that looks to the past, when we need more than ever a policy that looks to the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for that reason, i am not at all happy with this result and cannot support this agreement. the agreement reached does not sufficiently protect the general european interest. even the concessions which parliament has been able to force on us, such as the frontloading of funds to combat youth unemployment, are in danger of becoming a poisoned gift. the concentration of these resources at the beginning of the budgetary period does not entail an increase in the annual expenditure ceiling. for every euro spent earlier, investments have to be postponed. this of course further undermines the ability of the eu budget to be an investment budget.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the new ombudsman on her new position. moreover, this is the first time that a woman has held this position, and we welcome that.
in writing. - i abstained on the rules on eu officials. it is good that the number of staff is reduced, that the solidarity levy is increased, that working time is extended and that the retirement age is raised. but it is only a very small step forward. the changes are too limited in scope. the report does not mention the excessive wages or the unnecessary institutions which could be better abolished. for example, it is not for the citizens to explain that (according to die welt) more than 4 300 eu officials earn more than the german chancellor. the salaries and allowances of members of the european parliament can and must also be reduced.
in writing. − the green group decided to vote against the staff regulations for the failure to burden officials in higher grades progressively and fairly. this is evident not just in the allocation of the sacrifices demanded (the rate of the solidarity levy for example: 6% for all grades with the exclusion of grades ast 1 to ast 3 step 1 – no change from the old system – in addition to income tax, and only 7% for the two highest grades), but also in the privileges and allowances that this reform does not touch (i.e. expatriation allowance).
in writing. the reform in progress should only concern what needed to be changed. my argument is that the major reform of the statute, which has made substantial savings, was carried out a few years ago and is still having an effect and that the timetable for the adoption of the changes currently proposed should be strictly adhered to. it is vital to keep in mind the deadline of the end of 2012 as the deadline for reaching an agreement between the european parliament and the council. otherwise, when the method and the special levy expire, not only will no savings have been made, but new expenditure will have to be met, charged to the union budget.
in writing. in order to address the lack of homogeneity among member states as regards the rules governing the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of nuclear damage, the commission has committed itself to extending, in a future proposal, the solution of giving priority to union rules for member states which ratified the 1997 protocol before their accession to the european union, such as latvia and romania, and for member states which are parties to the paris convention. the council therefore proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol. a similar solution was suggested for the protocol amending the paris convention in 2004. i agree with that.
in writing. i welcome this report as it comes in the context of the modernisation of eu state aid policy so that it contributes to both the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the consolidation of public finances. the measures envisaged in this report will improve the handling of complaints and ensure the efficient and reliable collection of information from market players with the ultimate aim of ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market. the commission will also be able to make complaints conditional, which will make the procedure faster and more efficient and allow the european commission to concentrate on the most important cases to ensure the proper functioning of the single market.
in writing. the improvements proposed by the commission are twofold: firstly, to improve the handling of complaints and, secondly, to ensure efficient and reliable collection of information from market players. these two aspects are intended to address the problems associated with the complaint procedure and to increase the speed, efficiency and transparency of the procedure, as well as to enable the commission to focus on the 'big' cases, which are more important to ensure the proper functioning of the single market. on the whole, i fully support the commission's proposal and its objectives, and i have merely proposed a few minor amendments to the draft regulation. it is essential, in order to ensure the proper functioning of our single market and to ensure that illegal state aid does not impede competition within the european union, that the commission is provided with effective instruments to verify that member states grant state aid in accordance with the agreed rules.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of these measures on aviation. this sector is very important, not only in terms of employment, where we are talking about more than 5 million people working in this field, but also in terms of the economic figure represented by the sector. these measures are necessary to remain competitive with emerging countries, but also to maximise the use we make of the infrastructure currently available, and thus to ensure its efficiency.
in writing. − the eu is interested in maintaining a strong and competitive eu air transport sector, which provides over 5 million jobs and accounts for 2.4% of eu gdp. the sector is strongly international in character and this makes it imperative that in aviation we should look primarily for international solutions rather than european ones. the fluid management at airports and the emissions trading system are good examples. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the air transport sector. the eu must be a serious negotiating partner at international level, particularly on security, environmental protection and social matters. this is reflected in particular in the bilateral air transport agreements. the eu must negotiate more closely with its partners, and bring european standards in the fields of environment, employment and safety to the forefront, as this is the only way to ensure that european aviation continues to prevail in the face of increased competition. the first important step towards this is the implementation of the single european sky. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
in writing. aviation is by definition cross-border and requires a common policy in the eu. a strong aviation policy at european level will advance the internal market and bring benefits to all member states while opening up new opportunities for eu airlines.
in writing. aviation has become a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to the union's gdp and employs 5.1 million people. however, seven years after the publication of the commission communication on the development of the community's external aviation policy agenda, much remains to be done. the time has come for rapid progress in european aviation. new economic challenges are being launched from regions of the world where much more permissive legislation allows the construction of huge modern airports, which divert a large proportion of travellers from european airport platforms. the european union urgently needs to increase the capacity of its airports so as not to risk becoming less competitive than other regions experiencing exponential growth (think in particular of the asia-pacific region, the middle east and south america). investment in airport infrastructure should be seriously considered, even if demand does not yet exceed supply. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the aid to cover the costs of the infrastructure and the maintenance of the airport infrastructure.
in writing. the global crisis has shown the importance of adequate financing for global trade. credit agencies play a vital role in supporting the interests of european exporters, but it is vital to ensure that export credit agencies operate in a transparent manner. transparency and disclosure of data at european level are crucial to make the eu's human rights and democracy policy more coherent. i therefore support the idea in this report to ask member states to include in their annual activity report an assessment of compliance with international regulations and with the rules governing eu exports.
in writing. the annual reports of the member states and the commission's evaluation of these reports do not meet parliament's expectations of being able to carry out this evaluation. this is particularly true for the reporting of annex i non-financial items, such as the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of the oce premiums and compliance with the union's foreign policy objectives. this lack is, to some extent, not surprising. some member states are making commendable efforts to report on these difficult issues, such as germany, italy, belgium, the netherlands and denmark. however, we must recognise that there is still no established methodology for reporting non-financial items, and member states, as well as european institutions such as the european investment bank, still need to comply with the lisbon treaty requirements for proven compliance with the union's objectives for its external action.
in writing. - the hungarian government has already introduced a number of controversial reforms. the only correct course is for the european commission to continue to monitor this process and ensure that hungary, like all other member states, respects the eu's fundamental values. we do not need a new political forum, which will turn this 'state written in the stars' into a political reckoning. eu commissioner reding has proven in the past that she can tackle breaches of eu law efficiently and courageously. i assume she will in this case.
in writing. we voted by a large majority to lift the immunity of marine le pen, thus opening the way to legal proceedings against the president of the national front. racist remarks are undignified, especially when they come from the mouth of a european politician who is supposed to defend all his fellow citizens, regardless of their origin, beliefs or colour.
in writing. - the european parliament has once again shown its most narrow and intolerant side by lifting the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen. the great laureates of the sakharov prize for freedom of expression have once again shown that freedom of expression should not be granted to politically incorrect politicians who say what a great many of our citizens think. and yes, i too believe that the conditions which are already prevailing in many of our cities, where muslims are taking to the streets to pray towards mecca without being asked or given permission, are particularly disturbing and indeed resemble an occupation. however, marine le pen will have to answer to a court of law. in any case, don't ask me to be present at the sakharov prize ceremony. dissident sakharov, faced with so much cowardice and hypocrisy, would probably turn in his grave.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the parliament's resolution on the statute of the european foundation. these foundations pursue public interest objectives, for example in the fields of health, education and research. this new status will make it easier for the foundations to develop cross-border projects and pool their resources. this new statute also gives these foundations a clear european character.
in writing. the foundations are active in key areas such as research and health. they also have a significant economic impact on the whole of the european territory and create jobs for nearly one million people throughout the european union. however, they face difficulties in acting across national barriers on cross-border projects. the creation of a european foundation statute will facilitate the cross-border activities of foundations and enable them to support causes of public interest more effectively across the eu. such a status will also make it possible to put greater resources at the disposal of the member states in key areas such as training, research, social action, health, culture and the environment.
in writing. we encourage member states to take advantage of this current momentum to work towards the comprehensive and rapid introduction of the statute, with full guarantees of transparency, to remove obstacles to the cross-border activity of foundations and to encourage the creation of new foundations that meet the needs of persons residing in the territory of the union or pursuing missions of public utility or general interest. it should also be stressed that the creation of such a statute would contribute to the implementation of genuine european citizenship and would pave the way for the elaboration of a statute for the european association.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which updates the eu's port state system, an update which is necessary to reflect the new conventions that have been adopted in recent years, including the maritime labour convention adopted by the international labour organisation in 2006 which provides comprehensive protection rights for all seafarers. safety at sea is not negotiable and a robust and effective port state control system must be put in place, as stipulated in the provisions of the 2006 convention. in this way, the appropriate standards will be adopted and respected by all ships calling at eu ports. the maritime labour convention will come into force in august this year and i call on all member states which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. parliament has long supported measures to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. given the global nature of the maritime transport sector, those standards should apply to the entire sector. measures to ensure compliance have a particularly important role to play in achieving these objectives. ships which do not meet the standards are unacceptable both in terms of workers' rights and in the interests of safety, security and environmental protection. it is therefore appropriate that the european union establishes mechanisms to verify that the relevant standards are applied on board all ships calling at european ports, irrespective of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship. this is also a means of limiting social dumping which deteriorates working conditions and penalises ship owners who offer decent working conditions in line with ilo rules.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of these measures on vehicle registration, as part of the 'technical control' package. this proposal will make it possible in the future to improve the control of vehicles for granting or refusing registration, in order to guarantee safety on our roads and to limit the danger to the maximum. it will also make it possible to monitor pollution from vehicles and to avoid excesses by facilitating vehicle control.
in writing. this report on vehicle registration documents is aimed at administrative simplification by reducing the number of registration documents that motorists must carry at all times. the creation of an electronic database must be implemented as soon as possible. similarly, national databases should be available for road safety and efficiency purposes. reducing bureaucracy and harmonising registration records will facilitate the exchange of information between member states and combat the illicit trade in stolen vehicles.
in writing. this proposal, as part of the 'technical inspection' package, aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection. the aim is to improve the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness systems, particularly where the technical condition of a vehicle represents a direct and immediate danger to road safety, by introducing measures such as temporary suspension or permanent cancellation of the vehicle's registration. in order to be placed on the market, a vehicle must meet all the requirements of type-approval or individual approval and ensure that it meets an optimal level of safety and environmental protection. each member state shall carry out the first registration of any vehicle which has passed the stage of european type-approval on the basis of a certificate of conformity issued by the car manufacturer. this registration officially authorises the vehicle to be used on public roads and the various vehicle requirements take effect. what bothers me, however, is that it is a regulation and not a directive.
in writing. road safety is essential throughout the eu and we need to ensure that technical standards for maintenance and inspection are common across all eu member states. at present, the quantity and quality of controls and inspections vary from one member state to another. this report therefore sets out common minimum standards for the frequency of technical and maintenance checks, to reduce the number of road fatalities, and to meet our objective of at least halving the number of road fatalities by 2020. a regulation is more necessary than a directive, because the latter leaves too much freedom to the member states, leaving them the choice of the means and form to achieve the objective set by the directive. finally, i welcome the inclusion of light commercial vehicles in the scope of roadworthiness testing activities provided for in this report and the establishment of a system of classification of vehicles for risk assessment.
in writing. a clear legal framework for the compliance of commercial vehicles is essential. we therefore propose amendments to make it clear that companies operating commercial vehicles should always be responsible for ensuring that their vehicles are fit for use. companies should ensure that regular checks are carried out on vehicle parts affecting the rolling capacity of the vehicle.
in writing. - i welcome this report because it sets out to harmonise the technical surveillance of motor vehicles by setting minimum technical standards without preventing member states with stricter standards from maintaining their regulations. the minimum frequency for regular road and roadworthiness tests is 4-2-2 years, although countries with more stringent regulations, such as belgium, may maintain their 4-1-1 interval. i also support the decision to dispense with mandatory testing of two-wheelers and to leave the decision on such testing to the member states themselves, because in 11 out of 27 member states there is no provision for mandatory regular road and traffic safety testing of mopeds and motorcycles. it is particularly welcome that the mileage and information on major accidents throughout the life of vehicles will be included in an electronic database which will allow for exchange between member states and that the commission will monitor the introduction of such a system. a similar system already exists in belgium in the form of the 'car-pass'. this will reduce odometer tampering in used car sales, which is currently 5-12%, and is even much higher in cross-border sales. this proposal will not only benefit the eu's internal market, but above all road safety, which can benefit every eu citizen.
in writing. road safety is essential throughout the eu. harmonisation at european level is necessary in the training of inspectors and in the approaches to technical inspection in order to subsequently improve inspections and to reduce the number of accidents due to technical failures.
in writing. the main elements of the new proposal are as follows. as regards the mandatory european-wide technical checks for scooters and motorcycles, the categories of vehicles to be subject to a technical check should be extended to the group of road users most at risk; light trailers (less than 3.5 tonnes) would also be subject to controls. these categories of vehicles are currently excluded from the european system and the decision to subject them to a technical inspection is a matter for the member states. the commission is also considering increasing the frequency of periodic technical inspections for certain categories of vehicles. but i think the directive goes too far, for example, with regard to the weight of the trailers under inspection.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which adds new chemical substances to the 33 pollutants already monitored in eu waters. this resolution will further improve the control of water pollution in order to combat it as effectively as possible. the aim is to ensure that all european citizens have access to quality water, a subject on which they are particularly attentive and react.
in writing. water is a public good. clean and pure water is essential not only for the protection of the environment but also for the health of human beings. i therefore welcome this report, which aims to improve water quality and will therefore have a positive impact on the health of citizens. this report is essential because it allows the list of pollutants to be updated and a regular monitoring system to be set up. the report includes provisions to reduce the concentration level of these bioaccumulative and toxic pollutants and to have equal standards for new pollutants. there are also provisions for the chemical nature of water to make the public aware of the quality of their water in their environment.
in writing. 'water is not a commodity like any other but a heritage that must be protected, defended and treated as such', reads the first recital in the preamble to the new directive on priority substances in the field of water policy. a clear message that sounds like a call to protect this resource that is essential for the good of humanity. european citizens are also very concerned about water pollution: according to a march 2012 eurobarometer survey, 80% of them believe that chemical pollution is a threat to the water environment. this call for improving water quality was heard by the european parliament and the irish presidency of the council, which agreed to strengthen existing standards by including in the eu list of 12 new priority substances dangerous to the aquatic environment. these are mainly industrial chemicals, biocides and pesticides. another important point of the agreement is the inclusion of a provision to ensure the consistency of european legislation on chemicals (water, reach, pesticides, biocides, etc.). it is obvious that any lack of regulation is exploited by certain private or public actors to circumvent the polluter-pays principle.
in writing. the proposed directive sets out a list of priority substances in the field of water policy, namely chemical substances presenting a significant risk to or from the aquatic environment at union level. to meet the definition of good chemical status for surface water, bodies of water must meet environmental quality standards (eqs) established for these substances. the most dangerous of these substances are listed as priority hazardous substances (phs) because of their persistence, bioaccumulation or toxicity. measures adopted under the water framework directive aim at a gradual reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of psds, at a phase-out or phasing-out. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. this report is part of the modernisation of state aid policy to simplify the supervision of the single market without compromising its effectiveness. i welcome the measures contained in this report, namely the extension of the exemptions from notification to focus on cases with a particularly significant impact on the internal market.
in writing. in a time of economic crisis and reduced spending in the eu, it is important to find new growth potential to exploit while using the wealth of our planet in a sustainable way for our ecology. blue growth in the eu's marine, shipping and tourism sectors could create 7 million jobs by 2020
in writing. man's interest in the sea and oceans could address the major challenges facing the world. new technologies, such as advanced underwater robotics and equipment, are now enabling eu researchers and businesses to turn to the sea to help combat climate change, develop therapies for serious diseases, exploit rare minerals, etc. europe's long and important maritime tradition is being strengthened by new development actions such as offshore wind energy and aquaculture. at the same time, broader concerns are pushing the union to turn to the sea. the need to reduce carbon emissions allows for a focus on short-sea shipping and opens the way for renewable energy on the high seas. the over-exploitation of natural resources on land is driving up their prices on world markets and encouraging the exploration of mineral resources in the sea. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. cooperatives can play an important role in crisis management and in the integration of jobseekers. there are over 150 000 cooperatives in the eu, employing over 5 million people. cooperatives play a significant role in the face of production crises and business restructuring. they help companies to survive the crisis by implementing restructuring measures that allow them to continue their activities. this report stresses the importance of creating a regulatory framework and of highlighting and recalling the role of cooperatives in this time of crisis.
in writing. cooperatives, as well as social economy enterprises, play a key role in the european economy, especially in times of crisis, by combining profitability with solidarity, creating quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and generating social capital. cooperatives are becoming increasingly important in the european union. there are about 160 000 cooperative enterprises owned by 123 million members and employing 5 400 000 people, including some 50 000 cooperative enterprises in industry and services employing 1 400 000 people, and cooperatives contribute, on average, 5% of the gdp of each member state. in recent years, several hundred cooperative enterprises in the industrial and service sectors have been created as a result of restructuring of enterprises in crisis or without successor, which has helped to preserve and develop economic activity and jobs at local level. the text voted on today and the amendments attached to it offer a positive outlook on this matter.
in writing. we are facing an increase in energy demand and a shortage of natural resources. sustainable solutions must therefore be found and i believe that the bioeconomy is an adequate solution to meet the challenges of the future. the bioeconomy represents a real opportunity for europe. it is a profitable investment for the future. the bioeconomy holds enormous potential to address our dependence on fossil fuels, to address food security and to get out of the economic crisis we are in in a smart way.
in writing. supporting this sector is an investment in the future and it is up to europe, which has the capacity, to take the lead in achieving this objective. to achieve this, it is necessary to lay the foundations for a clear and stable regulatory environment and to ensure the harmonisation of agricultural, industrial, environmental, fisheries, research and innovation policies, which are relevant to the bioeconomy sectors. i agree with the need to encourage an interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral approach, while ensuring an exchange of knowledge at regional, national and european levels, in order to promote a uniform development of the bioeconomy across the union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to say to mr manfred weber that he apparently has a problem with his political geography because he has spoken more about bulgaria than about hungary and they are not the same country. mr weber, you have done it in a hypocritical way, because your government – the gerb government, the previous government in bulgaria – was supported for two years by ataka and never, never did you make one intervention in the european parliament about that, but today you come forward with it. i call that hypocrisy. that said – i know! – it’s life. maybe in christian democracy hypocrisy is life but not in other groups. i want to come back to the content. what is the content? the content is in a report by the venice commission, so it is outside the political sphere. let us take the venice commission report: 31 pages saying that there are in total not three, as the commission is saying, but 19 critical points in the fourth amendment. nineteen problems, and i quote literally. the venice commission – made up of five constitutionalists, including from germany, so no politician in sight – says these constitutional amendments are problematic not only because constitutional control is blocked in a systematic way but also because of their substance because their provisions contradict the principles of european standards – that is in conclusion 141 of the venice commission. and it continues. conclusion 144 says that the fourth amendment seriously affects the role of the constitutional court of hungary in three different ways. that is stated by the five constitutionalists that make up the venice commission, with no politicians in sight. and then they go further and conclude that the fourth amendment is an ongoing problematic file and that it is in fact a sign of the abolition of the essential difference that has to exist between constitution-making on the one hand and ordinary politics on the other. what the venice commission is saying is that in hungary they are using the constitution for ordinary politics instead of respecting the fundamental laws and democratic values. five constitutionalists, mr manfred weber. no politicians in it. among the five, there is one from austria, one from belgium, one from poland and one from germany, so let us stop saying that we are making a political game of this here. on top of that, i think, based on this report from the venice commission, there is already a reason to use article 7(1) of the treaty and that in fact it is necessary to launch that procedure because – let us be honest – what we are doing here is making the same mistake we made when we talked about the stability and growth pact. do you remember, in 2003, germany and france not applying the rules of the stability pact and what that created in the end? an enormous economic crisis and a euro crisis. what we are doing now is exactly the same. not in economics but on the fundamental issue of not applying the rules, closing our eyes to what is happening. and no, mr orbán, it is not against hungary. you do not have the right to say that, that these people here are fighting against hungarian interests. the opposite is true. it may not be your interests, but your interests are not hungarian interests. what we are defending here is hungarian democracy and the interests of hungarian citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – could i just ask you to go on the internet; go to the ataka party site; go to the site of the gerb party, and there you will find pictures of ataka leaders and mr borisov shaking hands. (murmurs of dissent)
blue-card question. – mr szájer, what you said was totally untrue. i ask you to confirm that i never opposed that mr orbán could reply. i only proposed that the parliament should have the last word in the debate. that was what was decided in the conference of presidents. what you said there was a complete lie, mr szájer.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr prime minister, this debate is fundamental because it brings the protagonists into the light and we all have an interest in putting the protection of democratic ideals above our party interests. i would like to congratulate and salute one person in particular, namely the rapporteur for the epp group, the large christian-democratic family, mr engel, who, together with the other fictitious rapporteurs, has made it possible to produce this synthesis, which today shows, unlike the speech just made by mr audy, who is advocating pro domo - the exact opposite of what should be done - that we must be careful not to play with democratic ideals. and i, who belong to the socialist and democratic family, was hurt by my party when, in 2006, the smer allied itself in slovakia with the xenophobic sns party. today, i'm not feeling well, when i see what's happening in bulgaria - we're going to talk about floods, we're not going to talk about politics. it hurts me a little, these alliances with xenophobes, with people who refuse democracy. and today, whatever our political views, we must support 'more democracy', respect for democratic values, which must be put above our party ideals, our party interests.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that mr orbán is playing it very emotionally by saying that there is an attack on hungary. that is completely untrue. the problem is that you have a concept of democracy that differs from the one enshrined in the treaties. that is the problem. i have had that problem for a long time. it did not start yesterday. your vision of democracy is: if you have a majority you can do what you want, because you have a majority. in the 19th century in an important book on liberty, john stuart mill said that democracy is not a dictatorship of the majority. majority also has limits. majority has to respect rules. it has to respect minorities, for example. it has to respect fundamental rights – and there is your problem, because the venice committee has said 90 times that you are not doing that. the only thing you can say to us in response is ‘i have put them in a memorandum to the president of parliament’. what i wanted to hear from you is that the venice commission was wrong on those 90 occasions. and why is the venice commission wrong? there is one paragraph in the 146 paragraphs of the venice commission report that is actually positive about hungary, which says that yes, they are complying with our requests. that is paragraph 143. all the others are critical of hungary. they are asking for changes based on that fundamental principle. there is a great writer in your country, mr györgy konrád, who has best described what your problem is: from hungary’s democracy you have created a democrature. a democrature is not a democracy. we are asking this question in the european parliament. why? because we have to defend democracy. you said in your speech ‘i deny the right of the european parliament to intervene in the lives of the ordinary citizens in hungary.’ why are you saying that? it is our task; it is our obligation to defend the interests of your citizens. the only interest you are defending is your own interests, your own political interests.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission statement on the recent floods in europe (2013/2683 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by anni podimata, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax (com ((2013) 0071 - 2013/0045 ((cns)) (a7-0230/2013).
for the greens/efa group mr president, the financial transaction tax will penalise small savers. the financial transaction tax will penalise pension fund account holders. the financial transaction tax will reduce liquidity in the markets. the financial transaction tax is going to hit the real economy companies. the financial transaction tax is going to kill our economy, ladies and gentlemen. that's what we're hearing! what we didn't hear is that the financial transaction tax is causing climate change, apparently, and, subject to analysis, the financial transaction tax would not cause, at least not immediately, the end of the world. that's the kind of language the financial industry serves us. this is the kind of language we hear from big companies who, to improve their quarterly profits, resort to the casino economy. this is the kind of fear, uncertainty and doubt that is being spread around the clock by all the lobbyists who oppose the financial transaction tax. the european parliament does not listen to this kind of language, which is of course completely unfounded. so i thank commissioner šemeta for presenting a proposal that shines with its simplicity, with its efficiency. i thank the members of the european parliament for supporting the very idea of financial transactions. the fight is far from over. but now i would like to address all those who use such arguments against us. please, for once, just once, bring some facts, some figures, some arguments to support your completely fanciful statements.
the question is "blue cardboard". it will be extremely brief, mrs lulling. am i correct in understanding that you think that if we observe reality and do not change anything, we are realists, and if we want to change something, we are ideologues? i wonder, then, what you're still doing in politics.
for the greens/efa group mr president, despite all the legislative initiatives, whether in the united states, britain, other parts of the world, in europe of course, we can say that we have still not put an end to what is probably the most immense market distortion in the history of the modern economy, namely the existence of financial groups that are too big or too interconnected to be allowed to go bankrupt. the very existence of these mega banks is a permanent threat to our societies and their taxpayers, which actually allows them to socialize losses and privatize profits. this implicit subsidy to which the commissioner referred represents a competitive advantage which has been estimated by the oecd at $100 billion a year, which is roughly the amount of profit these institutions make. in other words, without this subsidy, these institutions would not be profitable. solving this problem is imperative if we are to restore the financial industry to a sector of the economy subject to the discipline of transparency and competition. in this respect, i would like to thank commissioner barnier for tackling the problem by launching the liikanen commission. we are obviously looking forward to his legislative proposal with keen anticipation, which - i regret - will probably arrive too late for us to be able to turn it into legislation during this parliamentary term, but in any case i think we must go as far as possible in this direction before the end of the parliamentary term.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have two choices tomorrow: we must either accept in whole or in part the amendments tabled by mrs gräßle, myself, mr bové and mr de jong on behalf of two groups, or reject them. what are these amendments? these amendments seek to draw lessons from what happened after mrs gräßle had reached agreement with the council. we have learned, or should learn, from the monitoring committee's activity report and in particular from annex iii. i think that's important. we can't just make legislation out of nothing. we have to face reality. the reality is that there is a great conflict between the director of olaf, the management of olaf and the supervisory committee. and the monitoring committee is important because it monitors the legality of investigations, the proper conduct of proceedings, the protection of the fundamental rights of witnesses and accused persons. fellas, we have two choices tomorrow. either we approve these amendments and then we are in a strong position vis-à-vis the council to say: "let us bring these negotiations back into the conciliation procedure, let us legislate, based on reality, on practice", or we do not. and then we'll act, with all due respect, like a bunch of cowards. we'll act like cowards. we'll just tell the council: "we stand by our conclusions". so, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to accept the amendments tabled by mrs gräßle, myself, mr bové and mr de jong. that is how we, as a parliament, will have shown our teeth.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr balčytis, you are a very kind man and a good colleague, but i do not understand the attitude of your group. we have a procedure for making legislation, the codecision procedure, which can work in up to three stages. after this second stage, the second reading, we can move on to mediation. it happens all the time. i've been there too, countless times. and this phase can be completed in three months, as the rapporteur, mrs gräßle, said. if we now pass this on second reading, we will be faced with legislation that will not be changed for the next five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten years!
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mrs češková and mr vaughan, but i would like to refer specifically to the report by mr vaughan. he has done a great job and his report was unanimously adopted. that's a little weird. that is why i am addressing the s&d group in particular. i do not understand why you are tabled 11 amendments to the report by mr vaughan, which was adopted unanimously. it is an amendment which, if you read the text carefully, actually weakens the result achieved. i am talking about the amendments concerning olaf, the monitoring committee, the criticism of the monitoring committee, the fact that the director of olaf participates directly in investigations, the practice of olaf of preparing telephone calls with third parties in order to talk to the accused - a practice which the monitoring committee says is in breach of articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. there are a whole series of amendments. dear friends of the socialist group, why are you doing this? this report, this excellent report by mr vaughan, was unanimously adopted in the committee on budgetary control. let us hold fast to the result achieved and certainly not weaken. this is the ultimate question for you for tomorrow's vote.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his report. we have reached a good agreement together, which shows the citizens of the european union that european cooperation can bring very concrete benefits. a health threat, such as a pandemic, does indeed have international dimensions. good cooperation between member states and the commission can save lives. what we have achieved with this agreement is not insignificant: the joint procurement of vaccines to control price and ensure supply, a group of experts to assess potential threats and advise on measures, an electronic database to exchange data smoothly and to disseminate a warning and risk assessment when a threat arises. moreover, the proper functioning and implementation of this measure is guaranteed by transparency regarding the independence of experts and - which is also important for federal member states such as mine - by involving the competent länder in the implementation. i thank the rapporteur and the other members and i hope that the report will be supported by the whole house tomorrow.
i have heard the lithuanian presidency say that the negotiations with the applicant country turkey should be business as usual, that the negotiations for turkey's accession as a member state should continue. i wonder what the hell we're doing. we have to stop talking for a few months after the events in turkey and then just go on as if nothing had happened. but everyone has seen live on tv how that islamic regime treats dissidents. the european citizens whom we are supposed to represent do not understand this any more. they do not understand how this non-european muslim country is still in the running to join the european club to which they do not belong, not historically, not religiously, not politically, not culturally, not economically. i'll give you a hint. if we really want to reduce the democratic deficit in europe, we must finally begin to take european public opinion seriously, to listen to the opinions of european citizens. but instead of doing so, i find that the lithuanian presidency also has the audacity, the impudence, to describe politicians who express this discontent, this anxiety of the citizens, as 'populist, homophobic and xenophobic'. the lithuanian prime minister recently did so. that's actually a shame. we must listen to the citizens. we must listen to the politicians who are expressing the concerns of those citizens and we have no right to insult them, because that would be insulting public opinion and the citizens of europe.
in writing. i abstained because, despite the progress made in the text, there are also serious disappointments. we are of course pleased with the greater flexibility, so that unspent appropriations can be carried over from one year to the next and from one item of expenditure to the next, in particular to finance the fight against youth unemployment, erasmus or research and development, or the addition of the billion requested for the european fund for aid to the most deprived. this flexibility will also make it possible to maximise the use of appropriations. in the previous budgetary framework, more than 50 billion had been returned to the member states. but some points of the agreement remain too weak: a high-level working group to consider hypothetical own resources from 2020, as if the issue had not already been extensively studied. this is essential if we are to 'no longer depend on the goodwill of certain member states in the annual budgetary discussions'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community, such as the introduction of a mid-term review clause which is too light and which the next commission can easily abandon, whereas this framework, for the first time in decline, does not meet the needs of europe's recovery.
in writing. the agreement on the next multiannual budget is a thinly veiled one. it may be the maximum that can be expected of the member states at the moment, but the result is still far from the minimum requirements set by parliament in its previous resolutions. the agreement gives the eu a budget for the next seven years that looks to the past, when we need more than ever a policy that looks to the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for that reason, i am not at all happy with this result and cannot support this agreement.
in writing. at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. the aim of this proposal is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these acts within the unece. this is all the more important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which replace eu legislation (see regulation (ec) no 661/2009 on general safety). in addition, faster adoption of legislation will allow faster response to regulatory demands from operators.
in writing. at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. the aim of this proposal is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, and thus to reduce the time taken for the adoption of these acts within the unece. this is all the more important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which replace eu legislation. in addition, faster adoption of legislation will allow faster response to regulatory demands from operators.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to help workers who have suffered massive economic redundancies as a result of the increasing globalisation of trade and major changes in industrial structures. the new measures proposed in this report will make resources more accessible and more efficient and thus avoid the social crises that are now affecting workers in the automobile and steel industries.
in writing. created in 2006, this instrument has helped thousands of european workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the increasing globalisation of trade. more recently, he has helped victims of the economic crisis. the proposal for the new european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to ensure the continuity of the work of the fund in the next programming period, in line with the principles defined for the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020. the proposals put forward by the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs will improve the fund by making resources more accessible, especially to workers wishing to return to work; more efficient, by reducing the time taken to process applications; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we also want the egf to help workers prepare for the closure of industries in difficulty. the aim is to avoid social crises such as those which are now affecting workers in the automobile and steel industries.
in writing. after more than six years of negotiations, a new draft olaf regulation is being put to the vote at second reading. after a year of trilogues (informal meetings between the commission, the council and the european parliament) held from october 2011 to june 2012, the ep's committee on budgetary control endorsed the compromise reached in october 2012. the council adopted the proposal for a regulation at first reading in february 2013 and the commission unanimously endorsed a recommendation for the european parliament to approve the proposal on 18 june 2013. the european parliament wants to reach an agreement at second reading as soon as possible. the new regulation increases olaf's powers in the field of investigations, procedural guarantees, protection of fundamental rights and strengthens the agency's capacity to cooperate with third countries and international organisations. the proposal is a good compromise. its implementation will be evaluated in the near future (two years after its entry into force). the legislative procedure must not be held hostage to political differences of opinion on a single case of inquiry.
in writing. this report deals with the fifth revision of the directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, a revision which aims in particular to protect consumers in the areas of deposit banks and to implement fair sanctioning practices between the different member states. this is important in light of what happened with the madoff scandal where depositors lost large sums of money.
in writing. directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council should be amended to take account of market developments and the experience gained to date by market participants and supervisory authorities, in particular to address divergences between national provisions on depositary obligations and liability, remuneration policies and penalties.
in writing. i welcome this report which aims to freeze the auctioning of 900 million allowances in the coming years. due to a growing surplus of emission allowances on the market, the price of co2 emission permits has become so low that companies have little incentive to emit less greenhouse gases. the measures proposed in this report should raise the price of co2 emission allowances to a level that provides sufficient incentives for european industries to pollute less and invest more in low-carbon innovations, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.
in writing. the european emissions trading system (eu ets) has created the first major global carbon market, with an eu-wide carbon price as a tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions in the union. although the ets has reduced carbon emissions since its implementation, it still has serious imbalances. the current economic crisis, combined with the increase in credits during the first two cycles of the allowance trading scheme and a large influx of external credits for emission reductions from the clean development mechanism (cdm), has led to a considerable increase in surplus allowances and resulted in the price falling to around €4/tnco2 (compared to the €3/tnco2 envisaged when the energy and climate change package was adopted). the eu ets is one of the pillars of our climate policy. concentrating the system at the end of the period to delay the auctioning of certain allowances is only a short-term measure, which should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances, but rather as an option to ensure the stability of the system, pending the adoption of the indispensable structural measures.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which recognises that health crises are a priority to be addressed at national level, but recognises that no country is able to tackle cross-border health threats on its own. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission shall also ensure that the national authorities are able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure that the national authorities are able to fulfil their obligations under this regulation. uniform and coordinated communication strategies and cooperation in crisis situations are necessary. in particular in border regions, this cooperation is essential not only to prevent health threats but also to enable the quickest possible exchange of information across borders and to develop common strategies to combat these health threats, based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i welcome this report on serious cross-border health threats which aims to provide a more effective and coherent eu response to potential threats by drawing lessons from recent previous health crises. the new rules aim to equip the eu with means, networks and structures that complement its existing ones to effectively protect citizens across europe against a wide range of serious crossborder health threats. the text introduces an early warning system, facilitates the common purchase of vaccines and will make it possible to declare a health emergency at european level in the event of a crisis. more conflict of interest control and transparency on the independence of experts will also be put in place.
in writing. the european parliament set an example this afternoon by adopting the pargneaux report on serious crossborder threats to health. the report also has an educational value in these difficult times for the european project: yes, the european union, even with limited powers as in the case of health, brings real added value. by definition, viruses and the species that carry them do not stop at the borders of the european union. it is clear that the european centre for disease prevention in stockholm will have to play a more important role in the years to come. from sars in 2003 to avian influenza in 2009, europe has learned the right lessons, which are based on two pillars: on the one hand, the right communication; on the other hand, the right communication; on the other hand, the right communication. it is not a question of reassuring the citizens, but of telling them the truth. we all remember the lies of chernobyl. on the other hand, there is the need to ensure good coordination between the competent authorities and not to repeat the cacophony about vaccine stocks during the avian influenza crisis. the rest is a matter of intellectual honesty, and i would like to hear more often from health ministers supporting the commission when a pandemic threatens.
in writing. the commission proposal is a response to recent crises such as the 2009 avian influenza pandemic, the 2010 volcanic ash cloud and the 2011 e. coli outbreak. it aims to strengthen measures to protect the population by addressing these serious cross-border health threats more effectively and efficiently. it proposes better planning of preparation and coordination, to be developed in the context of a discussion between the european commission and the member states; extend the early warning and response system for communicable diseases established in 1988 by improving its resources, networks and structures; it extends the scope of risk assessment and coordination measures to all threats to health, whether biological, chemical or environmental in nature; and strengthens the role of the health and safety committee. only a well-prepared, coordinated and effective approach at union level will enable member states to provide the public with the protection and information required in the event of a health pandemic.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this measure which will allow cooperation between several member states in the field of taxation of financial transactions. this is an important subject which is close to my heart and which i have been advocating for a long time. in these difficult times for european citizens, this tax could provide a significant boost as the european union's own resources, which could then be reinjected into projects of common interest and thus relieve the national budgets of the member states.
in writing. − i very much welcome the introduction of a financial transaction tax, as the financial sector had a large part of the responsibility for triggering the financial and economic crisis and should therefore now also contribute to the costs of crisis management. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose a tax on the financial sector in the form of a tax on the supply of services, which would be a tax on the supply of services. however, this may lead to double taxation and thus to a fragmentation of the internal market for financial services. a common approach to the financial transaction system should therefore be sought. this should allow for increased cooperation between the 11 member states, but also give the other member states an opportunity to at least participate in the relevant discussions. however, this participation should not result in those who do not participate being able to block enhanced cooperation by others. the taxation of financial transactions is intended to avoid any distortion of competition between financial instruments and to avoid future crises by specifically preventing certain transactions. the creation of this balance is a real challenge which the council can meet if the member states are aware of the added value of european cooperation in financial and economic matters.
in writing. i fully agree with the need for a tax on international financial transactions. i was the initiator of a working group within the adle group on this issue. my aim was to create a tax on international financial transactions to support development aid. member states had committed themselves, under the european consensus for development, to allocating 0.7% of their gdp to development cooperation aid by 2015. it is clear that many states will find it difficult to honour their commitments. on 23 october the commission adopted a proposal to enable 11 european countries, including belgium, germany, italy and spain, to introduce a tax on international financial transactions. the introduction of such a tax is a sign of social justice. the eu must urgently make a gesture towards citizens by showing them that the bulk of the crisis is not limited to rescue measures financed solely by taxes and significant social restrictions.
in writing. the global financial crisis of 2008 highlighted the weaknesses of a long period of deregulation of financial services. moreover, it was commonly accepted that the financial sector was undertaxed compared to other sectors of the economy, since it was exempt from vat, and that it had to bear a fairer share of the cost of the crisis. in this context, the european parliament called for the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) for the first time in 2010. the ftt is a progressive and socially equitable tax and is the preferred instrument for shifting the burden from taxpayers to the financial sector, due to its multiple functions: it can generate substantial new revenues, while significant fiscal consolidation efforts are made by shifting the burden from employment and the productive economy; it can discourage harmful speculative transactions. it is a first step towards reducing the fragmentation of the internal market in direct taxation.
in writing. − a well-designed financial transaction tax is clearly a useful instrument to ensure that the financial sector makes a fair contribution to public finances and to discourage excessive risk-taking and short-term thinking in this sector. but especially in these difficult economic times, it is crucial that the 'design' of this tax is carefully designed. in particular, we must avoid europe shooting itself in the foot by introducing a tax which would hit our economies hard. i am therefore pleased with the corrections made by the european parliament in its opinion. they include the exemption or lowering of certain transactions which are normal and necessary for the 'geolied' functioning of our real economy. i also fully support the choice of maximum harmonization of tax rates. the minimum harmonization proposed by the commission would only lead to further fragmentation of the internal market, and that must be avoided.
in writing. latvia has implemented deep reforms of its economy in the aftermath of the deep recession of 2008-2009. these reforms have borne fruit to such an extent that we can now give a favourable assessment of the country's economic performance in the light of the convergence criteria laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. latvia is also expected to have the highest economic growth this year among eu countries. finally, integration into the euro area will increase the country's still weak popular support for the single currency.
in writing. latvia is in a position to join the euro area. "latvia has achieved a significant degree of convergence with the euro area", the commission said in a statement. the latvian experience shows that a country can overcome its macroeconomic imbalances, even serious ones, and emerge from them strengthened. following the deep recession of 2008-2009, latvia took decisive measures, supported by the eu/imf financial assistance programme, which improved the flexibility and adaptability of its economy. and it paid off. latvia is expected to grow by 3.8% this year and 4.1% in 2014, according to the commission's economic forecast published in early may. the other indicators reflect good economic health and are in line with the budgetary convergence criteria. the country has corrected its public deficit from 8.1% in 2010 to 1.2% in 2012, well below the 3% threshold set in the stability pact. riga is also in the norm for debt, which stood at 40.7% of gdp last year, well below the fateful 60% mark.
road safety is essential throughout the eu. i therefore welcome this motion for a resolution, which aims in particular to reduce the number of serious road injuries in the eu. in 2011, the number of road deaths in the eu exceeded 30 000. this figure should be added to the estimated 1 500 000 injured, of whom 250 000 to 300 000 are seriously injured. the resolution aims not only to reduce the number of serious road injuries in the eu but also to protect vulnerable road users.
in writing. we are all too familiar with the alarming figures for road deaths: 1.3 million people die in road accidents every year and more than 50 million are injured. in another context, these tragic figures suggest that unless this unfortunate trend in road safety is stopped, in the next 60 years motorization will cost three times as many lives as wars have since the end of world war ii. this is simply unacceptable!
in writing. despite the increasing number of warnings in the past three months, prime minister viktor orbán has been deaf to them. criticism of the fourth amendment to the hungarian constitution, which was introduced a few weeks ago, is however convergent: these new changes threaten respect for fundamental rights in the country. we cannot ignore the implications of these changes. there is an unhealthy legal primacy of the presidential party, fidesz, which has full powers thanks to its two-thirds majority in parliament. article 7 of the european treaty must be invoked to prevent this gradual and pernicious development of the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. i would first like to express my sympathy to all citizens who have been affected by the recent floods in europe and to congratulate the rescue services and volunteers for coming to the aid of those affected by these natural disasters. we know that floods are recurrent and we need to learn from these natural disasters that cause tremendous damage to infrastructure, financial losses and loss of life. the response mechanisms provided for in the structural funds must be made more flexible to react much more quickly and to restructure the regions affected by the recent floods. i therefore welcome this report, which will simplify european solidarity funds, strengthen our capacity to prevent these natural disasters and speed up our response.
in writing. floods in europe have caused deaths and extensive property damage in parts of the czech republic, germany and austria, for example. such events are likely to become more frequent in europe for several reasons, including climate change, according to recent assessments by the european environment agency (eea). of course, help is needed at all times!
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. in order to achieve greater resilience of the banking sector to potential financial crises and to eliminate the risks and costs of banking activities to public finances, it is essential that the reform of the union banking structure establishes a safe, stable and efficient banking system that serves the needs of the real economy, customers and consumers, and supports the provision of credit to the economy, in particular to smes and start-ups. this own-initiative report sets out several key principles, namely reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the porosity between commercial and risk activities, improving corporate governance, introducing a responsible remuneration system, creating an effective bank recovery and resolution regime, strengthening banks' capital and providing liquidity to the real economy, which are essential to achieve a change in banking culture.
in writing. - it is good that the european parliament is today giving its opinion on structural reform of the banking sector, even though there is no concrete proposal yet. in our report on emu we asked the commission to adopt rules where necessary to legally separate certain particularly risky financial activities from the deposit banks within a banking group, as indicated in the liikanen report. the report adopted reflects the caution of our recommendation and urges the commission to base its proposal on a thorough impact assessment, taking into account, among other things, the many measures already taken. the report nevertheless strongly advocates a european framework for structural reforms to avoid the divergent national proposals further fragmenting the internal market. i welcome the nuanced approach of this report. it is clear that the socially crucial core functions of a bank, lending, deposit-taking and payment services, should not be jeopardised by excessively risky investment and trading activities, which benefit from the 'safe image' and the state guarantee. however, we must avoid a fundamentalist approach that deprives banks of the ability to carry out customer-related trading activities that are useful to the real economy. i support this report and look forward to the commission's legislative initiative.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this report on the fight against fraud in 2011. fraud is first and foremost a crime and must be punished. the report, which only covers data provided by the member states, unfortunately shows that there are still sometimes considerable differences in the treatment of these offences between countries. we will therefore work for greater harmonization in this area in the future.
in writing. the 2011 parliamentary report on the protection of the european union's financial interests (pif), by derek vaughan, notes the improvements made during the year, while stressing the need for better collaboration and a standardised approach to fraud reporting by member states. the report also welcomes the work being done on a directive on the fight against fraud affecting the union's financial interests (in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on budgetary control). the s&d group will table an amendment in plenary calling for an urgent improvement in the working relations between olaf (european anti-fraud office) and its supervisory committee. the european commission has understood the need to contribute to this process, but more active collaboration is still expected from both components of olaf.
in writing. the roadmap is designed to bridge the gap between the existing control framework and the control model developed by the court of auditors. the 'one-stop-shop' model proposed by the court is based on an integrated chain of actors working in a coherent way on the basis of common principles and responsible for their own controls at each stage of the process. implementing such a model requires the commission to take the necessary measures at its level, but also requires the member states to be fully involved in the reform, as they currently manage 80% of eu funds under shared management. the commission decided, on the basis of the evaluation of the discrepancies, to undertake 16 concrete actions, divided into four themes. the first theme concerns simplification and common principles for control. the second theme relates to management declarations and audit assurance. the third theme relates to the maximum increase in the level of control. the fourth and final theme of the action plan addresses the heterogeneous nature of the various union policies and therefore includes actions to close sectoral gaps.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has voted by a large majority in favour of the dual system, the typical european model whereby commercial and public broadcasting services balance each other. it's a great model. it's fine from the point of view of cultural diversity, as well as from the point of view of media pluralism. it's good for democracy. and all the european member states have committed themselves to respecting this system in the framework of the fundamental rights of the european union and also in the framework of the council of europe. i believe that a thoroughgoing renewal of greek public broadcasting was necessary, but i am also shocked by the brusqueness with which it was done. we therefore assume, as mr papanikolaou said earlier, that the greek public service broadcasting will soon rise from the ashes like a renewed phoenix.
the question is "blue cardboard". i take the opportunity mrs ludford gives me to speak about the hearing because we cannot talk about this debate without talking about mr edward snowden. i personally propose that we should be allowed to invite him to the european parliament to have a talk with him. he's probably got some revelations for us. that could be an interesting debate. i think we owe him that. we owe it to ourselves, who have been spied on without our knowledge, we owe it to the citizens of europe, who are also spied on in their communications and parliament is, nevertheless, still the guarantor of individual freedoms. do you share my view, mrs ludford, that we should be able to invite mr snowden here, at european level, even to give him, perhaps, a temporary passport so that he can come before us and have a debate with us? (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the scandal today, even if some have tried to minimize it, is enormous, and i fear - as mrs guillaume does - that this is only the beginning, the visible part of the iceberg. it is enormous not only in terms of content, with the violations of people's privacy, but also in terms of the image of the european union and european democracy. so it is true, as mrs de sarnez, i expect, mrs reding, a firm response from the european union, and i believe that we absolutely need an investigation that sheds light, a bit like what happened with the cia flights, on what happened. but, and this is the most important point, i would not understand - and i think the european citizens would not understand either - that, faced with something that seems to us to be a kind of mammoth, we would say: 'ok, we are starting negotiations anyway'. in the name of the precautionary principle and european decency, i ask you, mrs reding, not to freeze, but to postpone the start of these negotiations until we have full clarity on what is a very big deal.
in writing. how can we guarantee the privacy of eu citizens and the confidentiality of european meetings? the display of american distrust requires two things: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. it is one thing for intelligence services to gather information in the fight against terrorism, but it is another when the information gathering penetrates into the private sphere and even political partners are no longer able to discuss it in complete confidentiality. the transatlantic alliance is based on mutual trust and respect for fundamental rights, but that has now been seriously undermined. it would be unfortunate if efforts to achieve a transatlantic trade agreement in the making were to be undermined by the recent allegations. but the preservation of european freedoms requires that the european user of google and facebook can rely on european data legislation with the highest possible standards of protection. we must make clear agreements with the united states on this, without compromising national security. without adequate safeguards, europe should consider its options, including the possible suspension of existing eu-us agreements such as the swift and pnr agreements. the european parliament must give its approval to this ultimate means of pressure.
the s&d group. mr president, the showdown between the army and mr morsi's government has begun as i speak. i would like, first of all, to reiterate our support for the egyptian people, who in 2011 fought for more freedom, more dignity, and also economic prosperity. president morsi was democratically elected in legitimate elections and he has, no doubt, failed to give the egyptian people what they expect. but the solution will not be a military coup. at the very moment when i am speaking to you, when the tanks are being deployed, when the radio and television stations are occupied, i would like to call not only for calm but for the legitimacy of a process of pacification and democratic transition. i would also like to say that, if president morsi was elected legitimately, he failed somewhere, and we must remember everything that did not work economically - no more jobs, losses in the textile industry, deterioration of the egyptian currency, etc., there are problems - and the fact that he also failed to meet the conditions necessary for the granting of the imf loan. so, on that side, it's sin. but there were also problems with human rights, with the constitution: remember that hasty referendum, remember what we said about this constitution, which does not guarantee all rights. so there have been, in our view, and we will continue to say, breaches of human rights, which are extremely worrying for the future. so the future, today, must pass, it is true, through a government of national unity, it must pass, eventually, through other elections - it will be for the people to decide - but it must also be that the promises of 2011, from the point of view of democracy and human rights, are kept. there will be no peace in egypt, there will be no democratic transition without this. and i would like - and i will end with this - and we would like mrs ashton, who has special relations with the egyptian government, and who we had hoped last november to see appear at least in the family photo, alongside mr morsi and mrs clinton, at the time of operation pillar of defense, to use her special ties today to play a key mediator role. we are tired - i dare say so - of the european union, which is doing so much for democratic transitions in the arab countries, being overshadowed, at the time of the picture, by other actors, and i am sure that mrs ashton will carry out this mission with great skill and dedication.
mr president, a few words first. mrs de martini, i am not sure that mr roberto benigni is giving a bad image of italy. your country, italy, has been led by a council president who confused his personal heritage, his media empire with power. there was clearly a conflict of interest. this is what gave a bad image of italy. i come to the point and warmly welcome andrew duff for his report, which is clearly intended to bring citizens closer to the institutions - which we need most. it must be more readable, it must make people more aware of what the european union brings to its citizens. but our enemies are in the house. it is those we modestly call the eurosceptics, who are the europhobes, the anti-europeans, including mr farage, who makes sure not to pay his taxes in his country, but has offshore accounts, clearly, and who, moreover, gives lessons in this parliament. it's these people who are getting more and more credit here, the europhobes. the anti-europeans are within our walls. it is thanks in particular to the proposals you are making for greater clarity that we will, i hope, be able to convince more citizens to go to the polls next year. it will be clearer... (the president withdraws the floor)
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 july, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by vital moreira, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint draft decision of the european parliament and of the council providing additional macro-financial assistance to georgia (00038/2013 - c7-0168/2013 - 2010/0390 ((cod)) (a7-0244/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 july 2013 at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the opening of negotiations on a multilateral agreement on services (2013/2583 ((rsp)).
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 july, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the significant increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products, by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000048/2013 - b7-0210/2013) (2013/2547 ((rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 july 2013 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, personally i find it a little difficult to understand how in certain areas we can go on at full speed, apply maximum pressure. if i take the example of budgetary trajectories or other areas where the pressure on the member states and the pressure on the efficiency of implementing a measure is extremely high. but here i cannot understand how, after so many years, we are still in the same situation, namely that 112 is known at best by one in four citizens in the european union. and so you have indicated a number of ways in which the commission is moving, and i would like to know more about them, both as regards the way in which the various dgs of the commission are organised in a more transdisciplinary way, and as regards the way in which they have to work together to try to make things go further. but it would also be good if you could tell us, for example, if the problem is in the member states. if so, please tell us so that we can convey to our member states the need to move forward on a number of issues which would be problematic. thirdly, i think it is extremely worrying that at a time when the technologies of the 21st century are what they are, we europeans are still unable to have a number that is both known and functional in our own country. this is not acceptable. so i really believe that the commission, at its level, must put maximum pressure on itself to achieve rapid results which are not just performance indicators, but real interdisciplinary pressure from the various dgs of the commission is needed so that, in a few years at last, this number will be functional for all european citizens.
madam president, commissioner, all my colleagues are in agreement. the result is always the same: knowledge of 112 is stagnating, it has been said. one in four citizens on average knows about 112. the criteria for the precision of the location, which malcolm harbour very aptly recalled, have not been defined; the overall functioning of the system is still imperfect in many member states. on the other hand, the ecall, supported by the commission, was simpler and faster. members of the european parliament were invited to the working parties organized by the commission, which was not the case at all for 112, since they were often denied access to the meetings, which were also organized in brussels when we were in strasbourg. all of which leads me to ask the following few questions. firstly, i would like to ask you whether the commission has anything to hide in relation to 112, given the little progress that has been made. we could progress much faster, clearly. secondly, what is the annual budget for the european emergency number compared to that for ecall? can you give us a comparison? what structure have you set up to promote cooperation between the various commission departments on this subject? and finally, what budget do you allocate each year to funding the projects on the 112? this is an emblematic case, which would send a clear signal to the citizens in a troubled period, in a period when the citizens doubt the efficiency of europe. this is a good example of a case where we should hurry to show the citizens that europe is a plus and that we can do a lot for them, especially when they are in a distress situation, such as a situation in which they have to call the emergency services. it is a matter in which, commissioner, i think we must now move quickly. i hope you will give us some encouraging information in this regard.
mr president, given the situation in egypt, the five groups which signed the joint resolution have agreed on a somewhat special procedure - and i will explain it to the members in general - which is to replace the existing resolution with an oral amendment, which includes a recital and a paragraph. what i'm going to read to you is this recital and this paragraph. but that means, mr president, technically, that all the references, all the recitals and all the paragraphs are to be withdrawn, with the exception of paragraph 11, which says 'instructs its president to ...'. so we shall remove all that, leave paragraph 11 and i shall read the oral amendment to you, as the groups have requested. i 'll read it in english: having regard to the statements of general abdul fatah khalil al-sisi, chairman of the supreme council of the armed forces of egypt, of 4 july 2013,a. whereas in its statement of 4 july 2013, the supreme council of the armed forces announced the suspension of the constitution, the transfer of power to the head of the high constitutional court until the early presidential elections, to be followed by parliamentary elections, and the formation of a national coalition government and a committee to look into amendments to the constitution; whereas mr adly mansour has been sworn in as interim president;1. expresses its deep concern at the situation in egypt following the military intervention; underlines that power should be transferred to democratically elected civilian authorities as soon as possible; expresses its fundamental solidarity with all egyptians who cherish democratic aspirations for their country and calls for a swift return to the democratic process, including the free and fair holding of presidential elections and a fully inclusive participation of all actors in the democratic process; that's it. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. the purpose of the draft legislative resolution is to provide macro-financial assistance to georgia to cover unmet payment appropriation needs. the 2008 global economic crisis had a negative impact on the georgian economy. the compromise reached on the granting of financial aid will enable the country to deal with the consequences of the crisis, to create jobs, to combat unemployment, especially among young people, with a view to restoring economic growth and stabilizing the country financially. the eu must help emerging democracies such as georgia to develop adequate democratic institutions and thus move closer to european integration.
in writing. the conciliation stage of the co-decision procedure on the additional macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia allowed the council and the european parliament to reach the following agreement: application to georgia of the principles of the joint declaration on the mfa; application of the advisory procedure for assistance below the threshold of eur 90 million (as requested by the european parliament); the council also adopted a decision on the application of stricter conditions to the payment of funds where the conditions are not met (as requested by the council). the european parliament delegation has remained united throughout the process, and our group is now meeting in the final agreement. the s&d group welcomes the fact that this regulation will finally allow financial aid to be granted to georgia. the agreement is also satisfactory from an institutional point of view because it respects the powers of the european parliament.
in writing. the purpose of this directive is to approximate the criminal laws of the member states in order to suppress attacks against information systems by laying down minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and penalties in this area, and to strengthen cooperation between the competent authorities, in particular the police and other specialised law enforcement services in the member states, and the competent specialised agencies of the union, such as eurojust, europol and its european cybercrime centre and the european network and information security agency (enisa).
in writing. it is difficult or impossible to speak in this debate without mentioning mr snowden. i take this opportunity to ask, here in front of you, that the european parliament summon mr snowden to a hearing where we could have a conversation with him. i also propose that we grant him a temporary passport so that he can appear before us. i think that in view of the latest revelations he has made, we owe it to him, we owe it to those of us who have been spied on without our knowledge, and we owe it to the citizens of europe to show that the european parliament is still the guarantor of the individual freedoms of our fellow citizens. it is clear that across the atlantic, personal data and privacy have a market value. in europe these are individual freedoms which we intend to defend with all our might. i invite mr snowden to the european parliament, and let's make sure he gets a temporary passport.
in writing. the 2014 elections will take place between 22 and 25 may 2014 in the 28 eu member states. they will be the first elections since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which has considerably increased the powers of the european parliament. they will also be the ninth since 1979. citizens are directly represented in the european parliament. it was therefore crucial to adopt measures to increase transparency, strengthen the european dimension of these elections in order to have a positive impact on the turnout in the european parliament elections. the organization of these elections will therefore be innovative in more than one way: the president of the commission will be elected for the first time by an absolute majority of the members of this new assembly, which itself will be elected by the ballot box. in addition, each european political party will be responsible for nominating a candidate for the presidency of the commission.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on the text. i'll vote for this one. it is high time that the european institutions opened up to the citizen. we suffer from a lack of image, it is obvious, but it is at least partially our fault as we also suffer from a lack of communication to the citizen. moreover, the so-called eurosceptics, modestly so, are delighted with the economic crisis and would like to see a return to the middle ages. they pretend to be saviors while offering mirages. some of them (farage) avoid paying taxes in their country by putting their money in offshore accounts outside england and then lecturing us on morality! a member who only proposes to pit europeans against each other is not a eurosceptic, he is at least an anti-european. it is time to organise debates during the election campaign on european issues and their direct consequences for the citizen. it is crucial to bring europe closer to europeans.
in writing. i'll say it right off the bat, i'm not a big gun person. i wonder if sending arms to syria, without being able to control their use, would not be a very bad idea because what will happen to them after the war? the european union is the only organisation with a legally binding framework for arms export controls, and it is a victory that european and non-european third countries have joined the arms export control system on the basis of the common position. however, the eight criteria are interpreted and applied with different rigour in the different member states of the european union. the common position and all the commitments relating to it must therefore be interpreted and implemented more clearly. in this connection, i welcome the conclusion, under the auspices of the united nations, of a legally binding treaty on the international trade in conventional arms, which is the result of seven years of negotiations and which provides for the creation of an effective international arms control system. we must now convince the member states to concentrate their efforts on those countries which have not yet joined international agreements.
in writing. the eu is the world's largest exporter of services. services are the backbone of our economy, accounting for 70% of gdp. trade in services is a vital sector of our economies and trade in the 21st century. the world economic crisis has led to a protectionist drift which requires new bilateral or multilateral initiatives to combat all measures which would restrict trade in services. the opening of negotiations on a multilateral agreement on services is a step in the right direction both for the recovery of economic growth and for employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which rejects the opening and continuation of multilateral negotiations on the agreement on trade in services (acs), given that the wto ministerial conference is not empowered to accept a multilateral agreement negotiated within a subset of wto members in the services sector, for which a plurilateral agreement based on the most favoured nation (mfn) clause is already in place. i would also like to stress that, at the moment, developing and emerging countries are not taking part in the negotiations on the saa and that some of them are strongly opposed to this initiative. it should also be noted that the european union has already concluded or is currently negotiating bilateral trade agreements with some of the partners in the acp negotiations, which agreements include important chapters on services that better reflect the bilateral issues specific to each country.
in writing. the introduction of tariffs on imports of agricultural products by norway can be considered a protectionist measure and a barrier to trade and is contrary to one of the eu's fundamental principles, namely the principle of trade liberalisation. however, norway is a member of the european economic area and must respect the principle of the eu's trade liberalisation commitment. an appeal must be made to the norwegian government to withdraw these measures and thus to respect its commitments to the eu, especially since this measure was taken without prior consultation with the european commission.
in writing. i deplore the recent measures imposed by the norwegian government, which i consider to be protectionist and prohibitory to trade, and in clear breach of the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement. i would point out that these measures were proposed by the norwegian government without any prior consultation with its counterparts in the european union, as would have been appropriate in the context of the strong bilateral relations that exist between the two sides. finally, i wonder about the economic logic behind these measures, which could have the effect of reducing trade, harming all parties concerned, particularly norwegian consumers, and in the long term also harming norwegian farmers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which allows us to move a little further towards a complete digital market. this market offers very significant economic and employment prospects, thanks to the many smes in the sector. the latter are helping to drive up employment figures in europe. this market is also a boon for the consumer, who will be assured of a wider offer, and therefore a better price, and greater security for his purchases.
in writing. e-commerce in a 28-country europe with more than 500 million consumers is strengthening the single market, boosting cross-border purchases and bringing distant regions closer together. the digital single market has considerable economic potential in the eu which should be fully exploited to deal with the crisis we are going through. its completion will increase the eu's competitiveness, create jobs and bring financial benefits to consumers. the digital market is one of the eu's main assets, creating 2.6 jobs for every job lost in the rest of the economy. in some member states it accounts for 25% of net job creation.
in writing. this resolution is intended to follow up on the european commission's declaration on the completion of the digital single market. it lists specific policy demands for future legislation to be proposed by the commission in this area. these requests cover areas related to the digital single market such as privacy and data protection, information and communication technologies and the economic and legal interests of consumers. the committee also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet.
in writing. the potentially serious consequences for society of increased insecurity and failure to provide effective care were highlighted to the commission. in view of the involvement of the 'troika' in national budgets, the union is considered to have a direct impact on areas primarily the responsibility of the member states; the european union must therefore also be seen as a promoter of solutions. at the very least, comprehensive analyses of the social impact of changes in social security systems and the provision of care services are essential to avoid aggravating an already poor situation, creating long-term problems and jeopardising other policy objectives: this is the union's mission in the troika and in the evaluation of national reform plans.
in writing. i did not support this report on connected tv. it is true that it is essential to adapt the current legislation to the changing media landscape of today. there are currently more than 40 million connected tv sets in europe. by 2016, the majority of european households could be equipped with them. the traditional boundaries between consumers, broadcasting and the internet are becoming blurred. however, a level playing field for all public and private actors must be guaranteed. that is not the case in this report. the measures provided for therein distort competition by proposing, inter alia, that content provided by public broadcasters should be found more easily than content offered by private providers. in addition, content offered by private providers should be subject to quality control.
in writing. unlike my group, i of course supported the resolution on hybrid television which was voted by a very large majority in the european parliament this afternoon. the possibility of surfing the internet via the big screen is already a reality and has become part of many european homes. the european parliament has wanted to examine this development. our parliament is of course only expressing an opinion here, but it was essential to recall the vote we had less than a month ago on the cultural exception, namely that audiovisual services do not come within the framework of the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states, which will be negotiated from 8 july. ensuring a level playing field for all operators, public and private, is essential, but so is the availability and access of media content to all, which is why i supported this very balanced resolution.
in writing. at first sight, it seems that the issues concerning connected tv are purely technical. the issue is the availability, accessibility and accessibility of media content and whether and, if so, with what instruments media offerings can be treated differently in a convergent world. the media have a dual nature: they are products, but they are above all a cultural asset and, as such, they have a particular political importance in society. media pluralism and freedom of opinion, press and information are essential to the functioning of our democratic societies. the media have a function of disseminating knowledge, information, entertainment and surveillance. this is the main reason why media policy in the union and the member states is not subject only to competition law and/or economic rules, but that there are specific regulations which take account of this particular character and the specific importance of the media in society. the convergence of technologies, which has reached its highest point so far with connected tv, will not change this.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2013 as regards expenditure relating to the accession of croatia to the european union. i take this opportunity to welcome our new croatian colleagues.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework, to take account of the expenditure needs arising from the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the preparatory text for the commission's work programme for 2014. among the priorities, the deepening of the democratic process in the field of economic governance, with a closer involvement of the european parliament, will contribute to improving citizens' understanding of the situation and the measures taken at union level to combat the crisis and manage its effects. i am convinced that a prerequisite for the return of growth is the restoration of the confidence of european citizens, as well as of economic actors and partners.
in writing. at least 16 protesters were killed on sunday, according to the ministry of health, including eight in cairo in clashes between supporters and opponents of the president. the army estimates that 14 million protesters took to the streets, out of a population of 84 million egyptians. it is the biggest demonstration in the history of egypt. mr morsi's opponents denounce an authoritarian drift of power aimed at establishing an islamist-dominated regime, as well as his inability to revive the economy. his supporters, on the other hand, point out that he draws his legitimacy from the first free presidential election in egypt's history. they accuse the secular opposition of playing into the hands of those who long for the old regime. europe cannot pretend that nothing is happening. it must help to promote the peaceful way of life and respect human rights!
author. - mr president, i think everyone has seen djibouti as they wanted to see it. i am referring to the exquisite french cuisine mentioned by mr tannock. i remind you that according to the fao - the un food aid agency - 180,000 people in djibouti today need food aid that the exquisite french djiboutian cuisine cannot provide; that, from the point of view of press freedom, djibouti ranks 160th out of 179, according to the ranking of reporters without borders. mr president, it is clear that djibouti and the horn of africa in general are strategic issues for the stability of the whole of africa and for our own security as well. this must not lead to unforgivable concessions in terms of democracy and human rights. and djibouti is certainly not the only, nor the worst of the countries in the horn of africa. but it is still abnormal that, since the elections in february 2013, we have asked for an emergency on djibouti because we had, as mrs vergiat says, doubts about the regularity of this election, which was peaceful and that is already something, but which may not have been regular. so since february 2013, we have been trying to make an emergency on this issue and it is true that repression is increasing. and it's true that since 2013, ngos and human rights activists have mentioned more than 1,000 political prisoners. so i would like to take the djiboutian president at his word. on 27 june he spoke of dialogue with the opposition, which is now being suppressed. let's take him at his word! but then, let's take our word too! let us really monitor the situation in djibouti and see whether in three months, in six months, indeed, djibouti's success in international relations will enable it to achieve better scores in terms of democracy and human rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the djiboutian authorities finally do what is necessary to put an end to the violations of human rights and to guarantee civil, political and press freedoms. since the elections on 22 february 2013, many opposition members have been arrested and protests against the regularity of the elections have been suppressed. the attacks and police and judicial harassment of members of the political opposition must stop, and it is essential to release those detained for political reasons. and what about the mutilation and rape of women by, among others, members of the military? that is abhorrent. moreover, it is impossible for foreign journalists to travel to djibouti in order to obtain reliable information about the situation in the country. this shows that freedom of the press is being seriously undermined. finally, we also call for the election results to be published in a transparent manner.
author. - mr president, i would like to return to what has just been said, namely the 700 million from the european union. the european union is the largest financial donor to nigeria. on november 12, 2009, we signed with nigeria a nigeria-ec country strategy paper, and a national indicative programme for 2008-2013, where we fund projects including peace, security and human rights. that is the 700 million mentioned by mrs vergiat. in addition, in accordance with articles 8 and 9 of the cotonou agreement, the european union is engaging in a regular political dialogue with nigeria on human rights and democratic principles. so i won't even mention boko haram, i'll just take up the issue of gays and lesbians and the problem of homosexuality. we have already spoken about this twice in the european parliament. that'll be the third. mrs ashton made a statement on 2 june on this subject. and as we said, despite all this, the law was passed, and it's terrible. we have mentioned it: 14 years in prison if you are married to a person of the same sex, 10 years in prison if you witnessed the marriage, 10 years in prison if you have affection. i will tell you that in my country, the prime minister of belgium, elio di rupo, could not go to nigeria. i'm not saying anything about michael cashman, either. we have to keep him in our house. and so, this poses a very real problem at the political and diplomatic levels and at the human rights level. i am not addressing nigeria personally, but the commission. what are we doing about this, commissioner? what results have we gotten from nigeria?
mr president, the situation in nigeria is dire. thousands of citizens have migrated to cameroon to escape the violence in the north-east of the country. the nigerian population is also fleeing to niger. this violence is the work of boko haram, of course, but also of the nigerian army which, in its fight against this organization, does not take the time to distinguish between its militants and civilians. it is urgent that the nigerian civilian population be properly protected. we are also very concerned about nigeria's position on homosexuality and the heavy criminalization of it, both for nigerian citizens and for tourists, foreign workers, or diplomats who are allegedly on nigerian territory. the return of the death penalty ends a de facto moratorium that has existed since 2006. nigeria is thus sinking into dark days and taking a dangerous step backwards.
mr president, my only comment is that if no agreement is reached before thursday we should then postpone it until the october i part-session. that is my only addition to mr swoboda’s request, which i fully support.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, this problem has only been raised for eleven hours and we have also discussed it in our group. you yourself said that the banking union must be completed. that is a very important thing if we are to regain confidence and ensure that investment is made and that growth and jobs can be created. the banking supervision must be approved in the short term, as the ecb needs at least another 12 months before the supervisory mechanism can become operational. we in our group have therefore agreed to vote in favour of the proposal to postpone until thursday, but i cannot go any further than that. we can agree to a delay until thursday to give you all the necessary space on the interinstitutional agreement to be concluded on accountability, the ecb's accountability to parliament, a very important aspect of this dossier. we have a very good basis, but there are still some areas which can be strengthened and we want to give you all the room for negotiation. that is why we can agree to a delay until thursday, but only until thursday!
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of those who opposed the glattfelder report in the committee on agriculture and rural development. you were talking about protean independence. would it not be better to spend these 6 billion euros to promote protein production in europe and thus reduce our dependence on the american continent for soybeans? could we not also produce oilseeds and vegetable oil and thereby reduce our massive imports of palm oil, which we have no use for and which comes from the south-east asian continent? what do you think of this clever proposal to use public money?
in writing. it is almost 50 years since the slogan 'equal pay for equal work' was first heard in europe in a demonstration in the streets of my town of herstal, chanted by more than 3 000 women on strike. the failure to achieve this objective has been stated in this oral question and by my colleagues. i would like to point out that, in addition to the parliament's resolution explicitly on this subject, this demand is repeated in several of our texts, such as my report on the flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy on poverty, which was voted on three years ago. beyond the natural justice of this demand, its realization would have a decisive impact on poverty in general, because when a woman, more vulnerable than others to the risk of poverty, emerges, it has a leverage effect on the well-being of all her relatives and on the socio-economic situation in general. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on the commission to take more action in this area, for the sake of justice and in memory of the struggle of the women of my town.
the european parliament, meeting in plenary as an expression of european democracy, is today discussing a report on its translation and interpretation services and how to make them more efficient and cost-effective. a very useful report, but unfortunately it does not say a word about the co-official languages of the union, such as welsh or catalan, which are not recognised as official languages of the eu. many of my fellow members are therefore unable to exercise democratic control in their own language. it is a very regrettable situation, because it ignores the cultural and linguistic diversity of the eu and the cultural identity of the european citizens of the regions and nations concerned. hence this call to recognise these languages as 'real' languages in europe, like the 24 other languages which can be used in this house, in order to achieve a europe which is truly 'unity in diversity' and brings citizens closer to europe.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other members for the good cooperation and the successful conclusion of this dossier. because after five years of crisis, some people may have already forgotten what caused this financial and economic crisis, namely mortgage loans from ordinary consumers. we have seen the dramas in various countries throughout the european union. people who were evicted from their homes or were unable to pay off their mortgages. we have now put an end to that with this legislation. and that is important. i am also very pleased that we have also looked at examples which do work. in belgium, for example, we do have a well-functioning credit market with a high level of consumer protection, with clear transparent regulations and clear information to consumers. that example has also helped to achieve a compromise that can now be applied throughout europe. we have tried in every possible way to give consumers more and better information before they conclude a contract. we have also tried to ensure that the incentives of banks and creditors and consumers are better matched, so that clear, flexible contracts can once again be concluded in the interests of consumers. we have also found a balance between the freedoms enjoyed by banks and creditors on the one hand and the interests of consumers on the other. we have also made it possible for consumers to better understand the risks involved in concluding contracts, both in the case of flexible loans and variable interest rates. we have also tried to cover the risk in countries where contracts are in different currencies in a better way. we have also made sure that each family can have a tailor-made credit in its own way, possibly together with insurance or other products, so that a menu can be created that consumers can again benefit from. in short, we have found a good compromise that can now be applied across europe, that can tackle the causes of this financial crisis and prevent people from being evicted from their homes, from people getting into trouble when taking out mortgages, which is one of the most important decisions a family has to make in a lifetime. i am very glad that we can do this today, it is timely and i hope that we can also apply this in the member states as soon as possible.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we greens are a small team and we must therefore be able to play every position on the pitch. i'm filling in for sven giegold, who's busy with another meeting. i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is true - philippe de backer said it, the commissioner said it too - the systemic importance of mortgage lending in the health of our economy cannot be underestimated. we know that 80 percent of all speculative bubbles are real estate bubbles. so tackling this problem is also a way of protecting our economy against shocks - it's a weak word - she has known. in this respect, the text was more than necessary. while there are reasons for rejoicing in this text, there are also reasons for some concern. i welcome the consumer protection aspect, as do the other speakers. we have clearly made important steps forward towards greater transparency in the offers that are made to consumers, but also in the dangers of these offers, for example loans in foreign currencies or variable rate loans, which may appear very attractive at first sight and which ultimately turn out to be financial holes on arrival. it is also gratifying that the text provides for the possibility for consumers to pay back their loans in advance. i am, however, reserved about the systemic, macroeconomic aspect of the matter. as too often, we have hesitated and therefore have not been able to get a majority to set standards that limit the size of the loan in relation to the value of the property. this is called loan-to-value or loan-to-income, i.e. the strict limitation of the loan amount to the borrower's ability to repay. i think we should have gone much further on this plan. i find that when it comes to debts, there is a bit of a double standard. we are very strong when it comes to public debts, but when it comes to private debts - whether they are bank debts, household debts or company debts - we are always reluctant to rely on the standards of a good father, and i regret it.
in writing. i am generally satisfied with the choices made by the commission when it proposes amendments. however, in my view, some of the measures proposed as implementing acts do not require uniform conditions for the application of the regulation, as referred to in article 291 of the tfeu. they are in fact exceptions and therefore amendments within the meaning of article 290 tfeu and should therefore be covered by delegated acts. secondly, i consider that articles 39, 40 and 41 of council regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 of 20 november 2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy provide a framework for the monitoring, certification and verification of the power of fishing vessels and that this issue should therefore not be covered by implementing acts. furthermore, i consider that, where recourse to delegated acts is proposed, the delegation of power should be limited in time in order to allow for a regular assessment of its use.
in writing. i propose to extend to registered partnerships the relevant solutions put forward for matrimonial regimes. this is mainly a question of integrating the new provisions on inheritance into other union acts, in particular the regulation on successions and the brussels i regulation. this approach concerns in particular the definition of the scope (exclusion of the compensatory distribution of pension rights between spouses provided for by german law and equivalent schemes in force in other member states), the revision of the provisions relating to the competent courts, the adoption of the provisions of the regulation on succession relating to the adjustment of rights in rem and the recognition, enforceability and enforcement of judgments and the acceptance and enforceability of acts. i also propose extending the revision clause so that we can carefully analyse the practical effects of the various points of divergence which still exist between matrimonial regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships and, on this basis, examine the means of harmonisation.
in writing. the law governing matrimonial property regimes varies considerably from one member state to another, as do the rules on jurisdiction. in practice, it may therefore happen that, in the same case, the competent court of one member state considers the matrimonial property regime differently from that of another member state. however, if the estate is large, this disparity may lead to a court battle in which each party hopes to see the property law applied that it considers most advantageous to it. the advantage then clearly goes to the party with the best advice. in addition, there is a general lack of legal certainty, which is accompanied by financial risk. we need to resolve this legal ambiguity.
in writing. i am particularly concerned to achieve the union's objectives of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use, so as to mitigate the impact of transport on climate change and contribute to improving the health and quality of life of the citizens of the union. at present, many difficulties remain in better aligning research and innovation (r&i) with transport policy. the need to respect certain general principles such as technological neutrality, complementarity, accountability and transparency should be emphasised. i am particularly concerned that duplication of research efforts at national and union level may impede urgently needed progress and i call for an efficient and coherent use of r & i resources. i also believe that small and mediumsized enterprises deserve special attention and that more research opportunities should be given to them.
in writing. − despite being widely debated, the council and parliament differed on several core issues. these included the exclusion of certain 'minor offences' from the scope of the directive; derogations from the rights granted under the directive and the conditions that would apply; the principle of confidentiality between the accused and their lawyer; the legal remedies available to suspects deprived of their rights; and the link between this directive and the european arrest warrant (eaw). the overall agreement reached during negotiations is clearly a compromise. at the insistence of the s&d shadow rapporteur, the principle of confidentiality was successfully included in the directive without derogations. the s&ds also established clear rules on the use of derogations so that they will be proportionate, strictly time-limited, not based solely on the seriousness of the alleged offence and will not prejudice the overall fairness of the proceedings.
in writing. − this directive is significant as the first piece of european legislation in the field of mortgages and the first bill relating to financial reform which focuses on a retail banking product. mortgages are the most important financial commitment most european families make and the mortgage market represents more than the 52% of the eu’s gdp. the agreement reached with the council will contribute to reactivating the economies of many member states, while avoiding the irresponsible mortgage lending and borrowing which was a major cause of the financial crisis. this directive sets out the path and principles for a profound reform of the european mortgages market, to be implemented by member states over the next two years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text by my colleague mr mccarthy. a financial market cannot be integrated, efficient and transparent if it is not healthy. the proper functioning of securities markets and consumer confidence in them are essential prerequisites for economic growth and prosperity. market abuse undermines the integrity of financial markets and undermines public confidence in securities and derivatives.
in writing. the commission should submit a new, substantially amended proposal for a regulation on the use of technical measures in the waters of the baltic sea, the belts and the sound immediately after the publication of the text of the basic regulation in the official journal of the european union. to this end i have asked for a provision stating that the commission is required to submit a new proposal for a regulation on this subject no later than one year after the publication of the basic regulation in the official journal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the functioning of the internal energy market which calls for the implementation of a genuine european energy community. this market should enable the eu to combat energy price rises effectively and thus protect the purchasing power of european consumers. in addition, this community will promote the security of electricity and gas supply and will create jobs that cannot be relocated. this report represents a real step forward in the integration of the energy market at european level and i welcome it.
in writing. i welcome the main points of the communication and the accompanying action plan, which summarise the progress made so far and the difficulties to be overcome in the future in order to achieve an internal energy market. however, it must be acknowledged that the upward trend in energy prices is likely to continue, as they are currently linked to the price of a barrel of oil for gas and to the volatile prices of fuels for electricity, and that their evolution is also influenced by europe's dependence on oil and gas imports, the effect of intervention measures, the inadequacy of energy efficiency measures and the lack of investment in the maintenance and modernisation of energy networks. it is therefore essential to dissociate the mechanism for fixing gas prices from the oil price indexation by opting for more flexible solutions.
in writing. cohesion policy plays a key role in achieving the eu's target of reducing its overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020. the aim is to improve the eu's energy bill and thus increase its competitiveness, while having a positive impact on the environment and consumer purchasing power. for these reasons, i welcome the adoption of this report, which will double the share of the budget allocated to cohesion policy to achieve the energy efficiency objective and ensure its effective implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. indeed, at the heart of the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in europe. however, the union is facing serious difficulties in achieving its target of reducing its overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, to which energy efficiency policies could and should make a greater contribution. improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for european competitiveness and have only advantages in the fight against climate change. investing in energy efficiency measures has immediate and tangible benefits for households and businesses, whether in terms of cost reductions, job creation and growth, or in encouraging the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. − the commission recently signalled approval for a draft maritime strategy for theadriatic and ionian seas, one of the four pillars which are intended to promote sustainable fishing. the s&d group believes that this should also be a basis for introducing a regional eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian area and that the measures relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sector should take account of the sea basin’s specific features, including its relatively shallow, sandy seabed and its lagoons, islands and coastal areas. the s&d group calls on the commission to adopt the action plan and a regulation dealing with the management of fishing activities in this region at the earliest opportunity. the group’s position was also endorsed by the fisheries committee, with a large majority.
in writing. − this report acknowledges the importance of multilingualism for the parliament to enable people to access information, exercise their democratic rights and be fully aware of what the parliament does. multilingualism and interpretation are essential if the parliament is to be transparent and they also enable legislators to work on highly technical legislative information in their own language and that of their citizens. the focus is therefore primarily on efficiency for those within parliament who use the interpretation services rather than eu citizens. efficiency and cost-effectiveness are extremely important but these factors must not erode the availability of live and accessible information in the language of listeners/viewers across the eu. consideration of eu citizens and their needs is central to the s&d group’s approach to this issue.
in writing. - the multilingualism of the european institutions is one of the cornerstones of european democracy. it guarantees our citizens the right to communicate with the institutions in their own language and to follow meetings and consult documents in full transparency. it also guarantees that we, as elected representatives, can carry out our representative task properly. because everyone can work in their own official mother tongue, our power relations are equal. but we must also realize that we are working with taxpayers' money and that we must be economical with it. the enlargement of the eu has made multilingualism more expensive. in recent years, parliament and its interpretation services have already made a considerable effort to reduce the cost of interpreting without sacrificing quality. the report we are adopting today is a further step in that effort. i therefore support these proposals for efficiency gains. i believe that we can manage taxpayers' money more efficiently and maintain high quality interpretation. so let us continue to work for a 'smart' multilingualism in the years ahead, combining our democratic aims with appropriate economy.
in writing. - i have followed the debate and the vote with very mixed feelings. i am of course in agreement with the fact that we have a duty to use taxpayers' money very economically and efficiently. it is an open door to say that this is far too little the case in this institution, and by extension in all the other european institutions. on the other hand, i cannot stress enough the need to respect the diversity of languages in europe. that is a principle we must not deviate from. we must intervene where unnecessary interpretation and translation services are being abused. but in these institutions, if you want to speak your own language, you should be able to do so. to confine ourselves to a few 'major' languages would be a mistake of principle and a political mistake. and for the rest, i am recommending myself for a good many other and very radical savings proposals.
in writing. - gambling is a risky business and the rapidly growing market for online gambling makes it even more difficult to protect vulnerable groups from this scourge. the legislation on this currently varies widely from one member state to another. since online gambling is, of course, by definition a cross-border phenomenon, clear european agreements are needed. the european commission must now come up with concrete proposals to ensure that minors no longer have access to online betting. this can be done by requiring users to identify themselves. furthermore, gambling operators may no longer advertise to minors. we must also step up the fight against organised betting fraud at sporting events. the gambling scandals are a dark shadow over professional sports. gambling and match-fixing, along with doping, are the biggest threats to the most popular sports. only with a european, international approach can we effectively tackle this scourge.
in writing. cheating on matches, money laundering, or addiction - the dangers of online gambling are many! parliament called for a ban on certain types of betting which are too harmful to sport and for measures to protect consumers. it was necessary to take a stand to combat this form of crime, to protect bettors from fraud or from themselves and finally to defend all sports lovers! sports betting, lotteries, poker, online casinos - another area where the bank always wins. to stop match-fixing and sports fraud, we got the european parliament to support a ban on betting on junior competitions, and to ban toxic and unfair betting (who will get the first yellow card, who will get the penalty, etc.). we want, by this vote, to give the federations and the public authorities the means to prevent these potential sources of fraud which are corrupting sports competitions!
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of luigi berlinguer to the committee set up under article 255 of the feu treaty.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, draft amending budget no 2 for 2013 presented by the commission in march calls for an increase in budgetary payments for 2013 of eur 11.2 billion, necessary to cover payment claims arising from the implementation of the current budget. this amending budget is the natural consequence of the joint declarations at the highest level on payments agreed last year at the close of the conciliation procedure for the adoption of the 2013 budget. this is therefore an amending budget which is expected to enable the 2013 budget to be fully implemented. i recall that in those statements - which were decisive for the agreement for the european parliament - reference was made to the need to proceed in the first part of the year with this amending budget in order to cover the expenditure on unpaid invoices during 2012 with new, fresh resources capable of enabling the 2013 budget to be implemented correctly. following the negotiations for the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and in the agreement of 27 june, the council agreed to approve a first instalment of the amending budget of eur 7.3 billion, committing itself to cover the remaining payments in the autumn, after the presentation of a new amending budget by the commission. it is clear that following the adoption tomorrow of the first part of amending budget no 2, we are asking the commission to make every effort to present the new amending budget as soon as possible in order to meet the additional payment needs, which we all know, for a proper implementation of the 2013 budget and to avoid significant payment needs from 2013 being passed on to the 2014 budget. in our resolution we strongly stressed the need for the council to approve this new budget as well in order to finance important development, employment, youth and small and mediumsized enterprises policies, thus avoiding any possible problem of payment execution for the financial year 2013. as a result, the political agreement given in parliament in july on the new multiannual financial framework and the approval of the same or the 2014 budget, as anticipated by the chairman of the lamassoure committee, are subject to the condition - which is essential for us - of the approval of the entire 11.2 billion, not only the first tranche which we will vote on tomorrow, but also the second, which we are waiting for in the terms proposed by the commission. i would remind the council that our demands are nothing more than a reflection of the trust and credibility which the institutions must guarantee in keeping with their word and the commitments they have made. i hope therefore that the presidency and the council will take note of the needs of the moment and act accordingly, also in view of the understanding shown by parliament of the consolidation efforts under way in the member states in accepting payment in two instalments. the council should follow up on what was decided by the heads of state and government in june and not act with the sole aim of cutting resources, because that is not the right way out of the crisis. the crisis is overcome by efficient investment and by a commitment not only in words and slogans but in deeds, which in this case are the payment of the invoices relating to the commitments made.
member of the commission. − mr president, in solving the problem of 2013 we are paving the way for the new framework up to 2020. as explained by alain lamassoure, the two things are closely inter-related. intense negotiations were needed to reach agreement on the way ahead. now we have the difficult job of transforming political agreement into legal acts in order to implement from january 2014 what is needed in the current economic context in europe. thanks to the very strong support and insistence of the european parliament, we are solving the problem of 2013 – and that is needed for consent about the future – in two steps. the first step is about resolving the shortage estimated by the commission, and i have to re-emphasise the amount concerned: a shortage of eur 11.2 billion for this year due to the accumulation of all sorts of problems at the end of the financial framework period, which should not come as a surprise. the council complied with its commitment by adopting in july the position on the draft amending budget for eur 7.3 billion. this is a first step. i am happy to hear from rapporteur giovanni la via that parliament is willing to confirm the first step but this, of course, is not the end, and we are immediately following on with the next step, namely with eur 3 9 billion, as we cannot waste scarce european budget resources on the payment of late interest or hamper economic development by not paying out to the member states. this is about investment instruments, this is about stability, and it sends out a good message to deliver on time. we are now able to address the most pressing needs of this year and to overcome the real cashflow problems we have been encountering since 2012 and especially in 2013. this is about legitimate claims to be paid out. we need to pay them this year. i can also say that budget implementation so far is fully confirming that we need the budget. we have clear constraints which are delaying implementation of the 2013 budget but, despite these artificial constraints and despite the cashflow problems, we are currently at a level of implementation eur 9 billion ahead of the comparable figure in 2012, so clearly we are at the end of a cycle. we have additional needs as programmes mature. therefore, we are coming forward this month – and here is my answer to giovanni la via – with the second tranche, with what will be called draft amending budget no 8, for eur 3.9 billion, potentially paving the way for parliament’s consent as to the future. let us hope it clears the atmosphere in advance of the conciliation process for 2014. i trust that this house shares our sense of urgency about delivering what we need to deliver.
we shall continue to be at odds with various people in this debate, but that is apparently necessary if you notice a certain hard-heartedness in the council. the commissioner has just confirmed that he will take the initiative for the necessary 3.9 billion euro immediately after our vote, but it is the council that must follow and i can only repeat what president lamassoure has already said: we shall first vote on the multiannual plan, as we have proposed, if the council also commits itself and follows up, and this before our vote. we can no longer rely on the respect of commitments when we see that this is not the case with the 2014 budget either. i would like to stress that two other conditions must also be met, namely that the legislative procedure where codecision applies must also be completed at the time of the vote. we must note that the council does not seem to want to follow that procedure fully and to abide by the decisions of the european council, but that is not the spirit of codecision. parliament must be given full say. and thirdly, we must also have a view on the way in which the problem of own resources will be dealt with in the working party and the task force, as agreed. we cannot afford to ignore this, and we must be clear on this at the time of the vote.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am naturally pleased with the content of the two reports which have been the subject of these debates, and which contain a series of essential recommendations: rapid implementation of the youth guarantee in all the member states, establishing the link between austerity policies and the level of youth unemployment, the importance of public investment in education and training. however, our recommendations should not be left unanswered because of lack of funds. in this sense, i must draw the link with the debate on the 2014 budget which preceded it. the combination of the mff and the 2014 budget proposed by the council does not allow, as it stands, the achievement of the political agreement of last summer, in particular as regards the financing of the youth employment initiative. the council must therefore revise its copy and thus ensure that our recommendations for young people are financed.
in writing. - the services sector, which is the subject of the directive of the same name, accounts for 45% of eu gdp. much remains to be done to achieve a genuine, harmonized and non-discriminatory internal market for services. for this reason, i welcomed the commission's communication on the correct application of the directive, which is necessary to encourage growth in services and employment. in the face of an economic and social crisis, the union must take into account in all its policy measures the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of an adequate level of social protection, education and training, and the fight against social exclusion. unfortunately, in mrs corazza bildt's report there is no reference to the principles which are an integral part of the treaties. the idea of achieving a competitive market while excluding consideration of the social impact, the quality of employment and innovation is a myopic and fallacious vision.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this was mr barroso’s last state of the union address before the elections, and he has also spoken about these elections. but let me be very frank: there is absolutely no room today for complacency, because in my opinion a number of important things – maybe the most important things – are still to be done to tackle this crisis. i am not alone in saying this. in last week’s issue of the economist they wrote, and i quote: ‘our sleepwalking leaders must start now to agree if we want to avoid disaster’. the economist was not talking about the president of the commission – i think that the sleepwalking leaders that they meant were more to be found in the council than in the commission – but that is a fair analysis of what is happening. we have to be clear here. this crisis is not over. it is true you have given a whole range of early signs of recovery, but we have to make a realistic assessment, a realistic analysis of the situation. these first signs of recovery are more the proof of the fact that we have hit the bottom of the recession, and that means that we are entering what i call a second phase of this crisis. it is far too easy only to see the negative points, as has been done a few minutes ago – but it is also not fair only to see the positive signs and say, ok, it is over now, we are going up again. that is not true. what we are in fact seeing is a second phase in this crisis: a long period of economic stagnation that we are about to enter – what i call a japanese winter. you know in japan in the 1990s they also had a real-estate bubble. they entered an unresolved banking problem and for two decades they had low growth figures, high unemployment figures, growth between 0% and 2%, and that is what we are falling into now at this moment. so my problem with the state of the union address, mr barroso, is that it fails to show a consistent vision for that problem: how to avoid a japanese winter, how to avoid two lost decades of economic stagnation in the next twenty years. what do we do to avoid that? what is our common vision so we do not fall into that trap? personally i think that three things are necessary. three big reforms towards a new europe. the first thing – you have spoken about this and i want to come back to it – is a real banking union that is more than the single supervisory mechanism that we have today. secondly – and there was not enough of this in your vision of the future – we need a more integrated eurozone, with a real government in the eurozone and in the european union, with a common treasury, with common financial instruments so that we can finance our investments at a lower interest rate. we are on average paying 2% more interest in europe to finance our investments than for example in japan and america. so how can we recover? thirdly, i think we also have to open the issue of whether is it perhaps necessary to have a broader task for our central bank, as the bank of japan has, as the federal reserve board in the united states has. in other words, next to inflation targeting, you should have gross domestic product targeting. in fact, what i want to do today, in this debate on the state of the union, is to make a proposal to our parliament now to do something in these last eight months. let us be honest, we can carry on in this last eight months in the same way as we are doing now, with big fights between the different political parties and the council, and then we will end up with nothing at all because we will have reached the election campaign. or we can use this time, these seven or eight months, to pick up a number of files where we are saying that they represent an added value for our people and for our citizens. let us deal with a number of crucial files in the next months so that we can have something concrete to show for the remaining seven, eight months of this legislative period. my proposals are two: firstly, there is a proposal now on the table from the commission on the resolution fund to complete the banking union. why not adopt this commission proposal on a fast track? i think that everybody here – all the groups – can agree on the proposal that mr barnier has put on the table on the banking union and the resolution fund. let us do a fast-track and let us immediately start negotiations with the council on this. if we start with the whole business of a report and making our own mandate then we shall lose months and months and we shall not reach the discussion with the council. my second proposal tends in the same direction. you now have a package on the digital agenda to complete the single market with open internet, with lower roaming tariffs. either we discuss this, losing months in parliament; or, together we say: yes, ok, this is a good proposal by ms kroes and the commission, let us go forward and let us use a fast track. let us immediately start the negotiations. why waste months and months on defining a mandate on this and have nothing to show for it when the elections are here? no lower roaming tariffs and no open internet? my proposal to all the groups is that in the next weeks and months we make a deal on that, and the same applies to the mff. i am sorry – and i am saying that to the council, i am repeating what mr swoboda has said – there should be no agreement with parliament if, as it appears, what you are offering on the mff is in fact breaching your word. that is what you are doing. you are putting on the table a budget for 2014 that has lower figures for the mff which we have to approve. how can that be possible? finally, i think the next elections should not be a big fight between the left and the right. i do not mind that, though certainly when you are in the centre you have all the problems landing on your head. but i think it should be more between eurosceptics, who think that you can put the world outside your borders, and pro-european forces, and i hope that all the pro-european forces can be united to beat the eurosceptics. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i do not know what the question was.
mr barroso, the good news show you just gave was almost an exercise in self-parody, an exercise in political satire. in short, you were congratulated at the g20 in st petersburg for tackling the problems of the eu. well, i invite you to get down on your knees for a moment. in a few days the german electorate will go to the polls, and immediately after that the great sobering up will follow and they will be told how much money is to go back to greece and to all the other countries. the problems are swept under the carpet in the hope that the voters will not revolt. we all know that the citizens of europe are turning away en masse from the meddlesome and money-wasting eu, and they are right to do so. the euro has become a bottomless pit for the northern countries and an economic prison for the southern countries. the schengen area is leading to even more uncontrolled immigration, whereas there are already more than 26 million unemployed in the eu and that is what the european voters will have to deal with in may next year.
mr president, i think that it would be a big mistake to make it a fight between eurosceptics and those who are defending the present state of affairs in europe. then we would lose this election, mr barroso. there is a third way, a third choice to be made. that is to defend europe, but a different europe. in a way the eurosceptics are right in their criticism that this crisis has been badly managed. they are right. that is not a criticism of you but is mainly directed at the heads of state and government, who acted far too late and did far too little in a number of their reforms. what we have to defend is a pro-european line, but a line that is in favour of a different europe from that of today – a more integrated europe than we have today. i am sure that this message could be very popular if we want it to be. who can believe mr callanan who, together with mr farage, is telling everybody that we shall beat the chinese and the indians and that we shall beat the americans economically by retreating behind our national borders, by going to negotiations as single nation states in this economic struggle of today. nobody can believe that, mr callanan. a new vision on europe does not mean going back to the past. it means looking to the future and not to the past.
in writing. we have entered the final political season of this legislature and we believe that this is an incentive for all of us to get crucial dossiers done. european supervision of banks is essential to restore confidence in a profound way and thus give a major boost to modest economic growth. it is a unique opportunity to show the citizens that we have climbed out of the valley, that we have things under control and that we will be able to secure the prosperity of the europeans. we have had some very turbulent years, but fortunately we have learned from them and have taken structural measures to prevent a recurrence of the same situation. we must also make progress on biofuels and on stricter regulation of tobacco products. here too we must show that we have the courage to take decisions which are in the public interest and which are against the interests of many stakeholders. in short, we are facing a political year in which we can show the europeans and prove that we are better off than ever with stronger european cooperation.
in writing. - languages and cultures are the basis of the federal structure of belgium. it is precisely this diversity and respect for different cultures that can be the richness of belgium and the unique selling point of europe. the importance of certain languages in international contacts or, for example, in the exchange of research is not in any way incompatible with the care and recognition of minority languages in particular. this is not just their history, but the basis of the understanding that one can get of a region and culture. language skills can be an integrating factor, have a democratic added value and even bring economic benefits. i therefore support this owninitiative report.
in writing. the european union has many regional or minority languages which seem destined to disappear. it is the responsibility of the european union and its member states to ensure the safeguarding of this cultural heritage. cultural diversity is a fundamental element of the european construction. as the spanish poet miguel de unamuno said, "the tongue is the blood of the soul". it allows an individual to associate with his or her country of origin. the language of a country or region is linked to the universal culture that made it great. promoting a language is a key to a strong identity. and a strong, structured identity is in turn a guarantee of openness to the other. the more globalization progresses, the more the safeguarding of national or even regional languages becomes important. it's about knowing where you're from so you can know where you're going.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i understand the rapporteur's desire to see the european union and the member states paying greater attention to the extreme threat to many of europe's languages considered to be in danger of disappearing, and to commit themselves vigorously to safeguarding and promoting the exceptional diversity of the union's linguistic and cultural heritage, by implementing ambitious and voluntary policies to revitalize the languages concerned and by devoting a sufficient budget to this end. it recommends that these policies also aim to encourage a wider awareness among citizens of the linguistic and cultural richness embodied by these communities. we encourage member states to develop action plans to promote endangered languages on the basis of good practices already in place in several linguistic communities in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. unlike the more recent regulations establishing the other agencies, article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 does not specify that the commission selects the candidate for the post of executive director of the eea following a call for expressions of interest published in the official journal of the european union and other media or on websites. this may therefore be an opportunity to update the eea regulation to bring it into line with more current practice in this regard.
in writing. the commission is the only institution able to provide the budgetary authority with precise data on the expected payment needs on the basis of the member states' requests for year n and their estimates for year n+1. i would stress that the council has no objective basis for calling into question the figures presented by the commission, which are based on the compilation of data provided by the 27 member states. i would also remind you that each member state is responsible only for its own data, which are therefore the only data it can contest.
in writing. it should be noted that the surplus consists mainly of the following elements: under-implementation of expenditure of eur 244.3 million, positive revenue implementation of more than eur 719.1 million and a positive exchange rate difference equivalent to eur 59.9 million. we must consider that, as regards revenue, the increase is mainly due to repayments and contributions from union agreements and programmes (eur 350 million), own resources actually collected in excess of the amount entered in the budget (eur 231 million) and fines and default interest (eur 159 million).
in writing. i support this draft and would like to point out that, during the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2014, the creation of additional posts in the court of justice must be highlighted because the commission has forgotten them in this draft.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my deepest solidarity with the people affected by the floods in autumn 2012 in slovenia, croatia and austria. my thoughts are with them and their families. i welcome the spirit of solidarity that this disaster has generated and i congratulate all those who have helped them. unfortunately, it is not possible to predict such a natural disaster, but it is possible to react even more effectively and more quickly. in this respect, the agreement on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is essential. it is a strong symbol of solidarity between the member states of the union - and beyond that between the citizens of the eu - regardless of any disagreement or controversy in other areas. as jean rey has rightly said, 'europe is not only the europe of governments, parliaments or administrations. it must also be the life of the people, the life of the workers, the life of the youth, the life of the man".
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. according to an estimate by the slovenian, croatian and austrian authorities, the total direct damage caused by the floods amounts to eur 359,535 million for slovenia, eur 11,463 million for croatia and eur 9,6 million for austria. for slovenia, the floods are qualified as a 'major natural disaster' in accordance with article 2 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. in croatia and austria, they were classified as "natural" disasters. however, the floods in croatia and austria have the same origin as those that caused the natural disaster in slovenia. the commission therefore considers that the condition laid down in the second subparagraph of article 2 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 is fulfilled, namely that a country which has been affected by the same disaster as a neighbouring country may exceptionally benefit from assistance from the solidarity fund.
in writing. it is urgent to release the financial assistance from the eusf to the countries affected by this natural disaster. i regret that the council has again refused to shorten, on grounds of urgency, as explicitly provided for in article 4 of protocol no 1 to the treaty, the eight-week period for informing national parliaments before the council adopts a position on the amending budget.
in writing. - we have just given the green light to a fundamental reorientation of biofuels policy, which will finally put us on the path of advanced biofuels, which do not burden agriculture, do not raise food prices and do not reduce deforestation. the text is not perfect, but it is a big step forward. the 6% ceiling gives conventional biofuel producers, who have recently made significant investments, time to switch. and with this reform, we are also encouraging electric driving (based on renewable energy), which is fine.
in writing. - today we propose to limit first-generation biofuels. we are correcting a wrong policy. such biofuels were hailed 10 years ago as the solution for renewable energy in transport. meanwhile, many of these fuels have been shown to have little "bio" content. in fact, the overall environmental impact is often negative. i am also pleased that stricter criteria are being put in place to determine which biofuels are sustainable and which are not, and that from 2020 onwards the indirect environmental impact of biofuel cultivation will be taken into account. in flanders, large investments have been made in the past in the production of biofuels, including in the port of ghent. these new proposals from the european parliament do not jeopardize these investments. i'm very concerned about the safety of my investment. it is not the intention that entrepreneurs should be the victims of a european policy based on miscalculations. existing projects can therefore continue, but a signal is given to steer future investment in a more sustainable direction. this creates room for new investment, including in advanced biofuels, derived from waste or algae, and that is good news.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's consideration of indirect land use change. renewable energy sources, and therefore those receiving public subsidies, will have to take direct and indirect effects into account in calculating the greenhouse gas emission rate. in addition, the european parliament has established a framework to limit the transition from food crops to energy. however, i regret the lack of ambition in the compromise. the race to new agricultural land for energy purposes has disastrous social and ecological consequences. the cap on biofuels at 6% of total energy consumption is a minimalist compromise and the implementation target for 2020 is very late.
in writing. it is clear that first generation biofuels, from the oilseed or ethanol sectors, are replacing food crops. it is equally true to say that such support policies need to be reviewed in europe because they involve many land grabs in developing countries. that is why the signal given this afternoon by the european parliament in favour of the corinne lepage report is the right one, even if the vote was close and the plenary was divided. the text not only supports the european commission's objective of capping the addition of first generation biofuels to traditional fuels, with a ceiling of 6%, but also sets out the way forward and identifies the investments to be made in so-called advanced biofuels, produced from agricultural or forestry residues, non-food materials such as algae, or industrial and municipal waste. europe and its member states must maintain the target of 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020. it's good for innovation, it's good for the climate, and it reduces the volatility of food prices!
- food shouldn't disappear into a gas tank. we voted today to continue to restrict the increasing use of food crops as fuel. the difference of opinion is a small percentage, but the hard truth is that this small difference can mean whether or not to eat for 17 million people a year. biofuels are bad for the wallets of european consumers and can have dramatic consequences for people in developing countries. it is good that in 2020 no more than 6% of transport fuels may come from food-based biofuels. but that does mean that the current share of food in the fuel mix may increase by about 20 percent. it's still too much, but it was the most politically feasible thing to do at the moment. the important thing is that it's now clear that by 2020 we really need to be done converting food into fuel. that's important for investors and energy companies. unfortunately, negotiations with the council of ministers cannot begin immediately, since a right-wing majority of the european parliament voted against these direct negotiations. this also creates a prolonged uncertainty for industry. the epp has a great and negative responsibility in this respect.
in writing. biofuels: eat or drive, you have to choose! the resolution on biofuels will be voted on wednesday. the pressure on agricultural land exerted by the agrofuels industry has the effect of creating a risk of food shortages and increasing food prices. agrofuels started out with good intentions, but isn't hell paved with them? the production of these must therefore be limited and the concept itself must be re-examined. for every % of agrofuels in a fuel, just over 1 million hectares are removed from food production (i.e. practically all the arable land in belgium). the energy mix of biofuels must therefore be changed in favour of those that are the most efficient and neutral in terms of their impact on the soil, agrofuels produced from waste or plant residues, which do not compete with food for humans or animals, and the trail of algae and non-food plants.
in writing. - the critical state of the european eel stock is certainly not to be overlooked. the national council for marine exploration reports a recruitment rate of less than 1% in the north sea and less than 6.5% outside the north sea, the lowest level in history. we cannot continue on this path. it is imperative that action is taken before we see the complete eradication of this species. it is for all member states to ensure the enumeration and definition of the different water catchment areas on their territory which constitute the natural habitat of european eel. member states will also need to implement adequate measures to reduce mortality from various factors, such as commercial or recreational fishing.
in writing. the european eel stock is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of vital habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, etc. the solutions are not easy and several culprits are indicted. to further complicate an already complex issue, there are many unknowns surrounding several major aspects of eel biology and management: uncertainty about the size of the stock, misunderstanding of the conditions that lead to the determination of the sex of the eel, and the question of whether reintroduced eels will actually succeed in reproducing, to name a few. there is also some confusion about the monitoring and control of the exploitation of eels, due to discrepancies in the catch and export figures recorded in the various registers, about the fate of a considerable part of the eels caught, and about a recognised but unquantified international black market in eels. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which sheds a positive light on this matter.
in writing. after 20 years of the status quo, the european parliament has finally voted on a revision of the eu customs code. the latter is the very foundation of our european construction. by modernising this single code, the union is equipping itself with simpler, more pragmatic and more effective tools to meet the challenges of today. this new framework will thus maintain the high level of quality requirements for products entering the european territory while facilitating trade with third countries.
in writing. the customs union plays a fundamental role in the functioning of the single market and it can only function properly through the common and consistent application of common and modern customs rules and systems. in order to lay the foundations for a dynamic framework conducive to competitiveness and growth, while ensuring the same adequate and uniform level of control of goods, i tabled amendments which promote modern and simple customs regulation, based on advanced systems and harmonizing controls so that the economic operator only has to transmit information once.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. over time, the network has evolved and extended to all member states that have subsequently joined the union. so far, it is the only harmonised data bank to include microeconomic data, and the approach is the same in all member states. it is an important instrument for the development and evaluation of agricultural policies, since it collects data on income, costs and turnover from a representative sample of agricultural holdings in the union each year. this sample currently comprises some 80 000 farms out of the 6 million or so in the eu-27. this information is important in the context of changes to the cap, as it helps the various research institutes which analyse and simulate agricultural and rural development policy.
in writing. within the european union, it is important to ensure the separation of powers and the role of each institution. the explicit delegation of the power to the commission to amend elements will have an impact on the product names, definitions or descriptions. this is beyond the scope of the delegated acts (the only derogation provided for by article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). it is necessary to ensure that this delegation will only concern non-essential elements. it is imperative to keep a record of the changes made by the commission. a five-year limitation and a report will therefore fulfil this function.
in writing. the new text proposed seems to be more precise and allows the commission to amend the technical characteristics relating to the descriptions and definitions of the products in the annexes. however, this explicit delegation of the power to amend characteristics that will affect the descriptions, definitions or names of products which are essential elements of the directives goes beyond the scope of the delegated acts. in order to ensure that the delegation of power properly concerns only non-essential elements and to avoid any ambiguity as to the extent to which the commission may adopt delegated acts which will affect essential elements such as the definition of products, your rapporteur proposes to limit the delegation of power and to delete the provisions relating to the power to adopt delegated acts which concern technical elements affecting the descriptions, definitions, sales denominations or names and characteristics of products. the rapporteur also proposes to limit the delegation to a period of five years (renewable) and to control the delegation of powers by asking the commission to report on this before the end of each five-year period.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde are governed by the acp-eu cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005 and revised since, by a special partnership between the union and cape verde and by a mobility partnership, signed on 5 june 2008. in the context of the special partnership, the european union has embarked on a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-beneficiary relationship and aims to deepen its relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, as well as regulatory and technical convergence.
in writing. as co-chair of acp-eu relations, i consider it essential to make progress in the partnership between the european union and the republic of cape verde. this agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is a major step forward in the field of justice and home affairs and will improve respect for freedoms and the administration of justice. shared socio-political values (democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law) made it possible to reach this agreement. the key element of this agreement is full reciprocity in readmission and the inclusion of family members in the terms. i am pleased to note that this special partnership between the union and the republic goes even further than the cotonou agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde are governed by the acp-eu cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005 and revised since, an eu/cape verde special partnership and a mobility partnership between the european union and cape verde, signed on 5 june 2008. in the context of the eu-cape verde special partnership, the european union has undertaken a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-beneficiary relationship and aims to deepen its relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, as well as normative and technical convergence.
in writing. the economic crisis has hit europe's young people hard. the unemployment rate among young people is at an all-time high. i therefore welcome this own-initiative report on the fight against youth unemployment in the european union. the european parliament called on all the different levels of political decision-making to take up their responsibilities in order to tackle this scourge as effectively and as quickly as possible. this will be achieved mainly through innovation and encouraging young people to use their creativity to start their own businesses. the impetus should also be given through education and mobility programmes. the six billion allocated to this purpose is therefore far from sufficient.
in writing. european youth can no longer be sacrificed on the altar of austerity! it is essential that the aids can be used to better guide young people from school onwards so that they can choose their path without the intervention of chance. secondly, the training tools for job opportunities will have to be strengthened. the text adopted is a step in the right direction but it is far from being enough to give hope to a european youth still too often sacrificed. the ps delegation of the european parliament not only welcomes these fundamental debates and the adoption of the reports, but stresses the contributions made by the s&d group: the absolute need for the rapid implementation of the youth guarantee in all member states, the recognition of the link between austerity policies and the level of youth unemployment and the importance of public investment in education and training.
in writing. - jobs for young people, which must be one of the top priorities for policy, including at european level. the european youth guarantee, worth over eur 8 billion, is an important instrument and must be translated into concrete actions as soon as possible. the large differences in youth unemployment across the eu member states do prove the importance of good structures. in countries or regions with strong dual vocational education systems, i.e. a strong link between education and working life, young people are certainly better equipped to enter the labour market. despite the economic crisis, there are many vacancies in the eu today, due to a lack of qualified labour. the european commission should therefore, in close consultation with the social partners, develop general quality guidelines for dual vocational education. we must also make much more efficient use of the possibilities of crossborder labour mobility for young people with vocational training.
in writing. the reality is overwhelming: more than 5 million young people under 25 are now unemployed in europe. in some countries, such as greece and spain, where more than one in two young people are unemployed, the situation is alarming. in belgium, nearly 25% of young people are unemployed. clearly, the fight against youth unemployment must become a priority for the european union. last june, the member states decided to raise €8 billion to combat this scourge. the intention is certainly commendable, but the resources are totally inadequate to meet the challenge and there is urgency! i supported a report this afternoon in the european parliament on possible solutions to combat youth unemployment. the text is ambitious and provides a global vision: it tackles, in particular, school drop-outs and integrates all young people under 30 years of age into the target groups. beyond the numbers, the important thing is to show a clear willingness to commit to these young people and to offer them the chance to build a future and to regain confidence in their abilities.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat youth unemployment. i do not think the report offers any real solutions to the current disastrous situation. the report ignores the fact that there are not enough jobs as a result of wrong policy choices made in the past and that young people themselves are not involved in the policies that do affect their lives. the message "you have to do your best and we will make a small effort to help you do it" is not what young people want to hear. the austerity measures imposed to deal with the crisis in the member states are particularly affecting the education, training and youth sectors, which are the sectors that need to prepare young people and help them find a decent job. that is why i shall abstain from voting on the proposed report and we shall put forward with our green group an alternative, more ambitious resolution which puts the creation of quality jobs at the forefront, which invests adequately in education and training for young people, as envisaged in the european youth guarantee plan, and which gives all young people the chance to find work.
in writing. the ps delegation of the european parliament welcomes not only these fundamental debates and the adoption of the reports, but also stresses the contributions made by the s&d group: the absolute need for the rapid implementation of the youth guarantee in all member states; the recognition of the link between austerity policies and the level of youth unemployment; the importance of public investment in education and training.
in writing. the services sector, accounting for more than 65% of gdp and total employment in the european union, is one of the keys to the return to growth on the european continent. in 2006, a directive was introduced to promote the free movement of services, which was lagging far behind the free movement of goods and people. real progress has been made since then. however, many obstacles remain. member states must continue their efforts in implementing the directive in order to complete the single market for services, thus developing transnational service provision, which creates considerable wealth for the european economy. i also support the european commission's zero tolerance approach to unjustified restrictions and the introduction of a rapid infringement procedure.
in writing. the services sector covered by the directive represents 45% of the union's gdp. much remains to be done to achieve a genuine, harmonized and non-discriminatory internal market for services. for this reason, i welcomed the commission's communication on the correct application of the directive, which is necessary to encourage growth in services and employment. in the context of an economic and social crisis, the union must, in all measures implementing its policies, take into account the promotion of a high level of employment, ensure an adequate level of social protection, education and training, and combat social exclusion. unfortunately, there is no reference in mrs corazza bildt's report to the principles which are an integral part of the treaties. the idea of achieving a competitive market while excluding consideration of the social impact, the quality of employment and innovation is only a myopic and fallacious vision.
in writing. as the union's second largest trading partner within asean and a regular participant in un missions, a partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and malaysia is appropriate. it gives a new dimension to the strategic and political framework for bilateral relations and extends the union's engagement in various sectors. malaysian society is multicultural, multiethnic and multi-confessional. it is therefore important to ensure fair treatment of all ethnic and religious groups. malaysia has shown considerable political stability for some time, achieved through a national coalition of political parties. however, progress has yet to be made in the field of human rights, political rights and fundamental freedoms. that is why we must continue to have a thorough political dialogue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which promotes the union's relations with the countries of south-east asia, including and in particular malaysia, by concluding, in due course, negotiations on partnership and cooperation agreements with seven asean countries. it is worthwhile to raise awareness within the union of the importance, the immense potential and the many facets of these relations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is my fourth or fifth debate with baroness ashton on syria and, as you know, baroness ashton, i was asking two years ago for a bolder approach towards syria and eventually to use force to end this tragedy there. i continue along that line. the situation is getting worse and worse. we have two million refugees now; six million displaced people inside syria; hundreds of thousands of people killed. and now we have the use of chemical weapons – and there is no doubt that it was the assad regime that used them. the human rights watch report which was published two days ago clearly indicates that only the assad regime has the 330 millimetre rockets and the 140 millimetre artillery rockets which were used in the attack. only them. not the opposition. so there is no doubt and all this discussion on who did it is in fact something that is clear now. the question is now, what do we do? what i am hearing is a one-track approach. we have to stop this use of chemical weapons – and this is true – and then the question is over. this afternoon i want to ask for and to say very clearly that we need a two-track approach. we need first of all to end the use of chemical weapons and therefore we have this possibility, maybe, of putting them under the control of the international community. but that is only possible if this is not a trap, if it is not what i would call delaying tactics: a way for the assad regime to strengthen his army and gain a number of months again. i hope that we can be sure of that tomorrow when kerry meets lavrov. i would be very pleased if you were to be there too, as the representative of the europeans, that this would not only be a discussion between the russians and the americans. you have to be sure and that is what i am asking you: to have a clear indication already tomorrow if this is ‘yes’ or ‘no’, whether this proposal is serious, and whether it can be implemented on a short-term basis. if not, if it is not possible within a few days or weeks, then it is not serious; then it is really a way to hold us up. the second thing is: do not forget the real problem in syria. the tragedy, the ongoing tragedy. that is the second track. i am continuing to say to you and to the europeans and to everybody, we need a no-fly zone. we know what we need. if assad can continue to use his airplanes, his helicopters, his missiles and his airports, this slaughter of the syrian population will simply continue. you know that this is also the best way to have a political deal. how do you expect him to make a political deal if there is no pressure behind it; if there is no stick behind it? carrots needs sticks; certainly in diplomacy and in international politics! i have the impression that the americans are not even considering the second track at all for the moment: how to put pressure again on the assad regime so that he can accept a political solution. and i conclude with that: a political solution in my opinion, baroness ashton, is a solution without assad and without the assad family. yes with the alawite community, that is obvious naturally, but without assad and the assad family.
mr president, when i listened to the first speeches, i almost had the impression that we had not succeeded in reaching a joint resolution on syria, which i believe is a good resolution and shows that there is consensus in this house on very specific points, namely the central points. there is certainly a consensus on the question of chemical weapons, as there was a consensus at international level - which must be emphasized and which is a positive point - including with iran and russia. consensus is also the key to the second problem, which we have barely touched upon, namely that of the war that is raging today, in iraq, i mean in syria - the lapse is revealing - and which is a civil war driven by outside actors. again, if we do not succeed in finding a political consensus that links the parties that have exploded today, including the ba'ath party and elements that have been in government, there will be no peace in syria. sometimes we make speeches based on our conscience, forgetting that in spain there was a historic compromise, that we are not coming out of a civil war intact, and that otherwise it will be syria that will explode into multiple entities, with the kurds on both sides. i would therefore like, as we have requested in this resolution, to adopt a measured tone in relation to those who are now in syria, either in the government or in the rebellion, even if we believe that within the rebellion too, torture, massacres and even the 'micro-use' of certain chemical weapons are being used. it is on this basis that peace must be made in syria, whether we like it or not. i hope that the consensus on chemical weapons will be reflected in the political arena and that we will find - and we must, in this respect, keep right - the opportunity to bring the belligerents around the table today. i would add, finally, that the refugees are now the third tragedy in syria. as we said, the neighbouring countries will explode if we continue. i hope that europe will open its arms wider. some countries have done so, but we have not been able to establish a common european position on this matter in the resolution. it is the autonomy of each country in this matter that has been mentioned.
madam high representative, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sequence of events of the past few weeks has been instructive in many ways. this is not the time to conduct a thorough analysis of everything that has been done, of the countless mistakes that have been made, of the gaps in the analyses. i hope, however, that we will do so and learn from it one day. the lessons i'd like to take from this today are as follows. firstly, although i think so, it must be acknowledged that the threat of military intervention was probably the decisive factor that moved a number of actors in a direction that could be decisive. i'm not happy about it, but it's a fact. it also follows that it would probably be dangerous to remove this military threat without having secured the guarantees concerning the possibility that has been opened up by syria, iran and russia. i therefore urge you, madam high representative, and all the international players, to explore this path with all the speed, dynamism and perseverance that are necessary, because this is an unlikely path. then we must go beyond that and try to find a political solution. other colleagues have indicated before me in which direction we might find it. you can be sure, madam high representative, that if you follow it, you will have our full support.
nearly a century ago, poison gas weapons were first used on a large scale in world war i. that was in flanders, my home country. the horror knew no bounds and today we see the same thing happening in syria. the truth is: we still have no ready response to such barbarism, especially in a highly complex conflict like that in syria. threatening to punish him? whoever does that should be well aware that sooner or later he may find himself in a situation where he may have to carry out that threat. i don't think that's the answer. there is no international mandate to intervene, there is no public support, there is no support. and anyone who intervenes militarily is also taking sides. he must know that! and i don't know that in this case, in this conflict where all sides are committing the most heinous war crimes, that's really wise. moreover, any intervention could cause a chain reaction in the rest of the region. no, that's why diplomacy must come first. the idea and initiative to bring syrian chemical weapons under international control must be given every chance.
the use of chemical weapons in the syrian conflict is a sad new high and deserves strong condemnation. it deserves a great deal of attention and the pressure that is being put on it will hopefully lead to the transfer to the international community and the destruction of these terrible weapons. but we must not forget that in the meantime, every day, dozens, probably hundreds, of people are killed by conventional weapons, and that this number exceeds one hundred thousand. and that millions of refugees have crossed the borders, causing great difficulties for the neighbouring countries and creating new tensions there too. so we must absolutely use the momentum to force a political solution, to get the parties around the table. the european union must really take the lead and continue to do so, because the only way to put an end to this is, of course, a diplomatic, a political solution. that is why we must now convince russia to join us.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam high representative, i too would like to thank you for your efforts. you mentioned two excellent collaborators, christophe berger and bernardo leone, who, it is true, did a remarkable job. for us today, the situation in egypt is truly a case study, because it raises many questions, in relation to what we wanted in the new neighbourhood policy and in relation to what we hoped for from the arab revolutions. i am sending you these questions in bulk, to which you have in fact sometimes answered. how can we today talk or discuss human rights issues with a government without appearing to be neo-colonial? we have a lot of hesitation, we have a lot of difficulty doing it today, even with the new team. how do we implement a new neighbourhood policy that does not punish the egyptian people and - you also mentioned this - that provides for projects focused on society? how can we defend, as we do today, egypt's necessary pluralism, when many of us have been critical of the way president morsi and the muslim brotherhood had run the country? and how can we trust military forces today, the egyptian army, which was the armed arm of mubarak's power and the auxiliary of his economic regime? how can we trust it to follow its roadmap and really lead egypt towards democracy? these are the questions that are troubling us today and you will find their traces in the joint resolution we have drawn up. we are following the situation very closely, with concern and reservation, but also with confidence in your team.
the tensions and the brutal violence in egypt prove once again that democracy is so much more than just holding elections. it is also about respect for human rights, the creation of a middle ground, a free media and an independent judiciary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for many people in egypt, survival, the maintenance of the family, is the first priority. the fact that the morsi government has absolutely failed to do anything about this and has been busy with other things has contributed to the events we know. but even if the present or a future government fails to do so and make visible improvements, frustrations will remain. we must therefore naturally continue to make efforts to restore a normal democratic process. but at the same time we must make every effort to achieve economic recovery. we must, together with the egyptians, together with other partners, work out an ambitious recovery plan. finally, i would like to thank you, madam high representative, for the efforts you have made to bring the various parties together on the spot. the european union was there visibly. that is a positive thing and i hope it will continue to be so.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission warmly welcomes support for an integrated approach towards the european union’s cultural and creative sectors. i think we share a common conviction. these sectors are among the most promising in europe today. they have an important role to play in the strategy for growth and jobs and that is why the commission has called on the member states to develop multi-layered strategies in order to boost the potential of culture and creativity; they should put those strategies high on their national development agenda. the strategies proposed by the communication and the eu’s new creative europe programme are two important vehicles for this ambition. the commission notes with satisfaction that the report prepared by ms sanchez-schmid addresses all the challenges identified in the commission’s communication. for example: developing creative skills, an appropriate regulatory framework, accessing funding, the challenges of digitisation and globalisation, and the need to improve access to international markets. the commission of course has laid down a long-term strategic vision, but it has also established a short-term practical agenda, with 40 different actions throughout. it will be pursued in a coordinated action in the coming years. the new generation of eu funding for the year 2014-2020 will provide many opportunities for creative sectors. the creative europe programme will help artists, professionals and organisations to work cross-border to reach the widest audience possible. it is crucial that the cultural community and the regional and local authorities continue to make the most of the cohesion policy funds. the commission therefore welcomes the report’s focus on the contribution that the cultural and creative sectors can make to local and regional development.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now beginning the debate which precedes the important vote you are going to take shortly on the fundamental element of banking union. five years to the day after the collapse of lehman brothers, no one can deny that together - parliament, finance ministers and the commission - we have implemented a series of strong initiatives to respond to this crisis, to learn from it, to meet the expectations of citizens and taxpayers - who have too often been asked to redress the mistakes or the manipulations of certain banks - and to stabilise the banking sector. with the crd iv capital requirements directive, thanks to the work of your rapporteur othmar karas, we have strengthened the soundness of banks. we have also laid the foundations for a uniform regulation applicable to 8 200 european banks. this is our best weapon against the risks of fragmentation of the single market, while preserving the diversity - which i value as much as you do - of the european banking landscape. with the single supervisory mechanism for banks - which was drawn up by sven giegold and marianne thyssen and which will be put to your vote shortly - we are going further by subjecting more than 6 000 banks in the enlarged euro area to high-quality, harmonised, coordinated supervision under the authority of the european central bank. in this respect, i would like to welcome the efforts of president mario draghi to ensure that the new supervisory board is fully operational in the coming months. this new system both preserves and respects the single market. all member states wishing to join the single supervisory mechanism will be able to do so. however, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not the time - at least not for me - for complacency or the idea of resting on our laurels: we still have a lot of work to do. the single supervisor is of course essential, but it is only a first step towards the banking union. first, we must continue to clean up and strengthen bank balance sheets so that banks are more robust. moreover, the banking union, which is perhaps our biggest joint project since the creation of the euro, must be based on its second pillar, the single resolution mechanism for banking crises, which is based on precise and predictable rules. let the banks pay for the banks, not the taxpayers, as we have seen for five years! the first priority in this respect is to secure the adoption of the directive on the recovery and resolution of banks. systematic public bailouts should be avoided, by ensuring that the losses of failing banks are borne in the first place by the shareholders and creditors, and not by the taxpayers. negotiations on this text have now been under way for over a year, which is not unusual for a reform of this magnitude. the difficulty for us is to reconcile the need for legal certainty for shareholders and creditors who must know in advance the losses they will incur in the event of bankruptcy and a degree of flexibility allowing, in certain cases, the resolution fund to substitute for the creditors to absorb the losses. despite these difficulties and complexities, the first political trilogue took place in july in a positive atmosphere, and i would like to commend the determination of the co-legislators, and in particular your rapporteur, gunnar hökmark, to reach an agreement quickly. such an agreement is essential for financial stability and the smooth functioning of the resolution mechanism. apart from these rules for resolution, which will feed and consolidate the uniform regulation, the other priority, ladies and gentlemen, is of course the establishment of the single resolution mechanism, which i proposed on behalf of the european commission on 10 july last. a clear and functioning decision-making mechanism, based on a single resolution board, is needed to implement rapid and consistent decisions to resolve the failures of all institutions located in the territories covered by the banking union. furthermore, in addition to the bailout by shareholders and creditors, our proposal includes a single resolution fund, fed by the banking sector banks must pay for banks , which will need to be sufficiently staffed and mobilisable quickly to ensure the success of the resolution of the failures and the viability of the bank's core functions. on these various points, a first ad hoc working group met with the member states on 19 july. i shall be discussing this with the finance ministers in vilnius tomorrow and the day after. i am also pleased that parliament has appointed your colleague elisa ferreira as rapporteur, who has voluntarily committed herself to this text and has set an ambitious timetable with her by the end of november. our initial discussions with you and with the member states have enabled us to provide clarifications and assurances on the legal basis for the future resolution mechanism, article 114 of the treaty, as well as on the proposal for a directive on the resolution of bank failures. i would also like to make it clear that we are not seeking any additional responsibilities on the part of the commission. in the framework of the present treaty, with great care for legal certainty, i have proposed that the commission should play a minimal role in the new resolution mechanism, which will be based very largely on national authorities working better together. we also assured member states that the interests of home and host countries will be balanced, including by adapting the composition of the executive authority of the resolution board to the bank to be bailed out. all national authorities concerned by the resolution of the insolvency of a transnational banking group will be represented on this board. finally, the question of the interaction between the single resolution mechanism for banking failures and the competent national authorities outside the banking union will be dealt with precisely in the directive on resolution of insolvencies, which i have just mentioned. ladies and gentlemen, all these points will be the subject of intensive discussions in the coming weeks. it is clear that there are differences between the commission, parliament and the member states - at least some of them - which i listen to carefully, but i am hopeful that we will be able to find solutions acceptable to all parties together, as was the case with supervision in the euro area. i hope that we will achieve this as soon as possible, at least before the end of the year, or at the latest by next march. we have here, ladies and gentlemen, a historic chance to complete the banking union, to finally manage what is both the main source of financing of the economy - 75% of the european economy is financed by banks - and also the main source of risk and fragility, as we have seen. the objective we are pursuing with this mechanism of stability, supervision, resolution of default, is that the banks can now do their job, which is to finance the real economy, consumers and businesses.
- i'm the reporter. − the
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is first and foremost a question of democracy. in other words, how can political power regain control over a financial sector which has largely been freed from all control and regulation over the past decades? first, of course, because there has been a great deal of deregulation, but also because those who were responsible for enforcing the remaining rules have obviously not done their job. national supervisors have not prevented german, belgian, french, italian and british banks from investing - if one can speak of investments - in the spanish or irish property bubbles. they have not prevented these same banks from speculating in the subprime markets in the united states and thus taking reckless risks. they didn't want to stop megalomaniacal mergers and acquisitions like the one that ultimately cost fortis her life, which went after much bigger than her by trying to buy abn-amro. in this respect, we very much welcome the significant progress that has been made in implementing what this parliament - and the green family in this parliament in any case - has been calling for from the beginning, namely integrated supervision, a single policeman for european banks. the relationship between this european policeman and the banks will probably be a little more tense, a little more difficult than that between the national supervisors and 'their' national banks, which were trying to seek their protection. it's a breakthrough that will have to pass two tests. the first test will be the test of credibility, first initial credibility. in other words, when we examine the quality of the balance sheets of the banks in the coming months, will this be done in a more robust way than the stress tests we have known and which - we have seen this clearly - were completely absurd? this will be the first test of the european central bank's credibility. then there is the question of credibility in the diet. will the european central bank, which has no experience in banking supervision, be able to build the necessary expertise and have a keen enough eye to bring these institutions under real control? the second test is of course that of democratic control, as sven and other speakers have pointed out. there is no question that an institution like the european central bank, which has a fierce tradition of independence and even contempt for democratic institutions, should not be held accountable. in this respect, the successes achieved through the interinstitutional agreement are a good omen. we shall see whether the european central bank will actually comply with them in spirit and in letter.
in writing. i thank mr diamandouros for the important work he has done for over 10 years as european ombudsman. although an increasing number of citizens accept the intervention of the european ombudsman, progress remains to be made, particularly with regard to the transparency of the european administration. europe suffers from a democratic deficit. it is essential to communicate in a clear and transparent way, giving the european citizen all the information he wants. i invite the european institutions to cooperate more closely with the ombudsman in order to deepen the dialogue with citizens, civil society and all stakeholders, which will help to improve the image of the european union.
in writing. in 2012, the ombudsman opened 465 inquiries (an increase of 18% compared to 2011). it closed 390 (an increase of 23% compared to 2011). more generally, as in 2011, the ombudsman helped over 22 000 people by dealing with their complaints (2 442 cases), answering their requests for information (1 211) or providing advice through an interactive guide on his website (19 281). the number of complaints under the ombudsman's mandate was 740 and the number of complaints outside his mandate (1 720) is the lowest in the decade. in more than 75% of cases, the ombudsman assisted the complainant by opening an inquiry (18.3% of cases), referring the case to a competent body or advising the complainant on the procedure to be followed (57.1%). in total, 67% of complaints received in 2012 were lodged via the internet. the ombudsman's work is important.
in writing. we have reached an agreement, although this is a highly sensitive subject. free movement is a fundamental principle which gives the union the opportunity to open up to countries that so wish. this agreement will ensure greater coherence in the european union's external policy. full visa reciprocity must become an objective for the union to achieve in its relations with third countries. however, the inclusion of a suspension clause in such an agreement is still relevant to prevent abuse.
in writing. i welcome the creation of the european system of banking supervision, which is a major step forward in eu banking supervision. the system will supervise around 150 of the largest eu banks by transferring banking supervision power from the national to the european level, thus allowing for more effective prudential supervision. in addition, it should be noted that the european parliament will have a wider right of access to the data managed by the ecb and will be able to hear the chairman of the supervisory committee on a regular basis, whose responsibility may be called into question in the event of any errors being made. finally, it is a good sign that this system, which is mandatory for euro-zone members, will remain open to other eu members with attractive conditions for participation.
in writing. the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism is a first step towards the creation of a european banking union, based on a genuine single regulatory body (the 'uniform regulation') for financial services, and also including harmonisation of the different national deposit guarantee schemes and a common european framework for the resolution of bank failures. the banking union should be based on appropriate accountability and power-sharing mechanisms between political institutions, at national and union level, and bodies with supervisory responsibilities at both union and national level. at all stages of the implementation of the banking union, due consideration should be given to any mutual effects on the euro area which would affect member states which are not members of the euro area. to that end, appropriate preventive measures should be adopted to avoid any possible disturbance of the internal market. in particular, the ecb should be required to ensure that it carries out its supervisory tasks in a non-discriminatory manner that is conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − the main factors in the financial and economic crisis were the excessive budget deficits of some countries and the irresponsible speculation of the banking sector. now the council and the ecb have finally accepted parliament's proposal and opened the way to a 'european banking supervision'. this decision was overdue because the national authorities had little control over the internationally structured banks. the european parliament has gained greater insight into this activity through the negotiating skills of marianne thyssen, which thus gives greater transparency to this supervision. the european parliament is thus drawing conclusions from a crisis which, unfortunately, is not yet over.
in writing. five years after the bankruptcy of the financial giant lehmann brothers, the european parliament voted to establish the first pillar of a european banking union by putting over six thousand financial institutions under supervision. this first step seemed unrealistic even three years ago. however, europeans had no choice but to come together to prevent such an economic disaster from happening again and taxpayers from paying for the irresponsibility of the financial sector. we have taken a first step and there is still much to be done to achieve a real banking union. although this is an excellent agreement, i have some reservations about the situation of non-euro area countries, which i believe needs to be clarified. i also welcome the agreement reached between the european parliament and the european central bank on strengthening the democratic control of the european parliament over the new powers conferred on the ecb.
in writing. − with this proposal on access to genetic resources and the fair sharing of their benefits, the eu aims to implement the nagoya protocol and to meet its international obligations. however, the commission proposal is a very minimalist interpretation of the use of genetic resources and does not impose any general rules on access to genetic resources. this was left to the individual member states. the green rapporteurs made substantial changes to the commission proposal. it provides for progressive compliance so that the large amount of genetic material already collected in european databases will gradually be brought into line with the new legislation at each new application. this is to avoid 'biopiracy' and requires the countries of origin to give prior informed consent and to be properly compensated. the commission has also introduced controls and set up a biodiversity fund with the proceeds of genetic material whose country of origin cannot be determined. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal. it is not possible for modern industry to appropriate the rights to traditional knowledge and genetic resources of developing countries and make a lot of money from it without the consent of the original owners and a fair compensation.
in writing. the loss of biodiversity is increasing and accelerating. it is estimated that one in four mammals, one in eight birds, and more than one in three amphibians are threatened with extinction worldwide (iucn, 2012). nearly 60% of ecosystems have been degraded in the last 50 years (fao, 2010). beyond an ethical and moral responsibility, the economic and social impact of such a decline is immense: 7% of global gdp lost annually by 2050. in order to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity, its peoples and associated knowledge, it is now necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge be shared in a fair and equitable manner. this sharing should contribute to the preservation of biological and cultural diversity in situ and ensure its sustainable use by local populations.
in writing. in the implementation of a strong european energy policy, the european union must attach importance not only to transnational energy projects but also to micro-projects enabling european citizens to become energy self-sufficient. this micro-aspects will directly contribute to making the european union energy independent. moreover, this market is a source of growth and innovation, allowing a proliferation of smes specialising in this field. this micro-energy policy must be part of an ambitious european policy which should take the form of a european energy community.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. 'microgeneration' refers to the whole range of small and medium-sized electricity generators, including solar, wind, hydro, biomass and waste. more broadly, it also includes combined heat and power (chp) or cogeneration equipment, which feed the heat produced during the generation of electricity either directly into households or into local heat and power grids. proponents of microgeneration (also known as distributed or decentralised power generation) argue that a decentralised energy market is a prerequisite for achieving europe's renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, but they lament the significant barriers to their ability to compete with the largest electricity producers.
in writing. i am pleased that the eu is committed to making equal pay for men and women a reality. unfortunately, the finding is irrefutable. there has been too little progress in this area and there are even regressions in some eu member states. it is therefore necessary to recall that we cannot accept that there are differences between the pay of men and women. the principle of equal work, equal pay must now become a reality for european citizens and this motion for a resolution strongly encourages it.
in writing. while equal pay for men and women has been enshrined in the treaties since 1957, it is clear that in 2013 the situation is still not effective. in fact, at present, about 16% of women are still victims of this discrimination. for these women workers, this is a clear violation of their fundamental rights. it is unacceptable that for the same job, under the pretext that you are a woman, you are paid less. it is important to ensure that all eu member states will work to solve this problem. this is all the more so as 70% of european citizens consider this pay gap to be serious.
in writing. i voted for this resolution! equality between men and women is one of the founding principles of the european union. it dates back to 1975, when the principle of equal pay for work of equal value was incorporated into the treaty of rome. belgium also has important legislation against discrimination and for the promotion of equality between women and men in the field of employment. despite this equality in law, women continue to bear the brunt of de facto inequalities and indirect discrimination which restrict their opportunities in terms of access to employment, career and working conditions. often they have to combine their work with the daily tasks of housekeeping and child rearing. as a result, the various forms of time-credit or parental leave which allow for a better reconciliation of work and family life, as well as the use of parttime work, are almost exclusively women's affairs.
in writing. in the digital age, we are faced with an increasing number of threats and attacks that are becoming increasingly sophisticated. the internet provides criminals with the opportunity to engage in almost any illegal activity anywhere in the world. more importantly, cybercrime is no longer the work of an isolated criminal but is now the work of traditional criminal organizations. we must find concrete answers to ensure the security not only of our freedoms and private rights but also of our entire economic system. the legislation must apply to both real and virtual life. the european union and its member states must invest in a clear and effective response to the problems of cybercrime, the transnational threat par excellence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the cybersecurity strategy 'an open, safe and secure cyberspace' sets out the eu's overall vision on how best to prevent and respond to disruptions and attacks in cyberspace. it aims to promote the european values of freedom and democracy and to ensure that the digital economy can develop safely. specific measures are provided to increase the resilience of information systems, to reduce cybercrime and to strengthen the union's international cybersecurity and cyberdefence policy.
in writing. creating a digital single market must be a european priority. this is a symbolic, economic and social issue. this sector, which directly affects all european citizens, is a source of growth, employment (mainly for young people) and innovation. to become a pioneer in this sector, the 28 national markets must be transformed into a single european market with a clear regulatory framework. this will also bring european citizens much closer together. i would like to congratulate the european commission for making this a priority, particularly in the telecommunications sector. however, much remains to be done, including by the member states.
in writing. in order to support the development of media, telecommunications and information technologies for more than thirty years, the european union has gradually established a framework favourable to the information society, whether to encourage technological progress or to liberalise the telecommunications market. in this connection, the launch in 1984 of the esprit programme ( european strategic research and development programme on information technologies) and the publication in 1987 by the european commission of its green paper on the development of the common market for telecommunications services and equipment mark two important milestones in the establishment of a european policy for the information society. we can only support this approach so that it leads to solutions for jobs and growth.
in writing. the massive use of chemical weapons on 21 august 2013 constitutes a real war crime, a crime against humanity that can no longer be ignored. this unspeakable slaughter of civilians must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. it is becoming more and more urgent for europe to speak with one voice on the international stage on this issue. i hope that the russian proposal to place the syrian chemical arsenal under international protection and ultimately to destroy it will be implemented as soon as possible. as winter approaches, the eu will need to ensure that all humanitarian aid, including blankets, baby milk powder, etc., reaches the syrian population directly.
in writing. in syria, the tragedy continues and every day, before our eyes, the country continues to count new victims: 100,000 dead in two years, a shocking figure. not to mention the 4 million internally displaced people and the 2 million refugees fleeing to turkey, egypt or iraq. the syrian people are crying out for help and the international community has so far proved powerless. the massacre has reached an intolerable scale with the use of chemical weapons against the population. public opinion is divided on the appropriateness of military intervention and understandably so. inaction is unacceptable. this afternoon, i supported with my political group a european parliament resolution on the situation in syria. europe is in favour of a political solution and is calling for the syrian chemical arsenal to be made available for destruction. the member states must also provide assistance to the country's humanitarian crisis, which the un considers to be the worst in 20 years. it is time for action: europe must speak with one voice and support solutions to finally bring about the peace that the syrian people deserve.
in writing. the situation in syria is more than alarming. the manifesto of the 28 calling for "international action" against syria must not be misleading. the union, which is hostile to any military engagement, is once again conspicuous by its absence from the international scene. the european countries which are 'friends' of france and the united states can do little to contribute to a political solution, especially since their soft consensus has neither the force of a security council resolution, nor that of a vote by the united nations general assembly, nor the weight of a consensus of nato members, nor the alibi of the principle of 'responsibility for intervention', a degraded form of the right of intervention, used in libya. the refusal of 27 countries to take part in military action, which is considered to be unfounded and random, is based on different grounds, which sometimes overlap: constitutional grounds for germany, whose basic law excludes any intervention beyond the borders (without the approval of the bundestag), political grounds, with the refusal of a commitment "for the coming decades" in the face of the danger of an "escalation of civil war in the whole of the levant". europe thus dissuades most of its members from opening a second front, by engaging in a conflict that is still too costly.
in writing. - first and foremost, the european union, the governments of the member states and the media must be self-critical. the celebration of the so-called arab spring two years ago was largely based on naivety and/or intellectual laziness. it was written in the stars that the existing regimes would be replaced by worse dictatorships, mostly of islamic signature. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the arab and muslim world. groups like the muslim brotherhood should not be considered as interlocutors. the eu must also take a more serious view of the persecution of coptic christians in egypt.
in writing. i extend my deepest sympathy to the people of egypt, who are currently going through a difficult period due to the political instability in the country. i also strongly condemn the coup and the extreme violence by the various parties. the time has come for all egyptians to negotiate the future of their country and to put in place a real constitution that respects democratic values and the fundamental freedoms and rights of everyone. parliament called on the military regime to take the first step by lifting the state of emergency and releasing all political prisoners. the european union must continue to present itself as a solid partner that does not take sides, while promoting respect for democratic and fundamental values.
in writing. − the killing of 25 egyptian policemen in the sinai near the desert border with israel on monday was blamed by the new, military-installed government on islamist militants. state television carried emotional demands for retribution against the muslim brotherhood. the policemen were on their way to their barracks in rafah when militants attacked them with machine-guns and rocket-propelled grenades, according to security sources. egyptian state television reported that the presidency announced three days of mourning for the ‘martyrs of rafah’. mounting insecurity in the sinai worries egypt and the united states, because the desert peninsula lies next to israel and the palestinians’ hamas-ruled gaza strip, as well as the suez canal, one of the world's most important shipping arteries. it is more than time for europe to take an official position and not only in a resolution!
in writing. no one disputes the importance of maritime space for all europeans. this represents 90% of extra-european trade, 40% of intra-european trade and is an indispensable resource in terms of biodiversity. however, the scarcity of resources, the rise of river trade and the arms race in some parts of the world are common challenges that europeans must address together. only the european union could be able to ensure the security of its 90 000 km of coastline and key regions for global river trade. i am therefore in favour of the european union adopting a european maritime security strategy as a first step towards the creation of a common defence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the european union has a vital interest in the establishment of a safe, open and clean maritime environment that allows the free movement of trade and people and the peaceful, legal, fair and sustainable use of the oceans' wealth. maritime flows are the lifeblood of european trade and the vectors of european prosperity and influence. the security of european citizens and the promotion of the principles referred to in article 21 of the tfeu are the responsibility of the european union and the member states.
in writing. i fully support this report which suggests strengthening the common security and defence policy. to be an influential and respected player, it is imperative for the european union to have the capacity to plan and conduct military operations beyond its borders in a more coordinated, effective and rapid manner than today. in addition, i am in favour of increased investment in defence, a sector which is a source of innovation, many of which have civilian applications. let us not forget that in 2012 the european defence industry directly employed 400 000 people and generated a turnover of 96 billion euros. i am one of those who believe that it is high time that the eu gave itself the means to implement its strategic, economic and industrial policies.
in writing. i am not an advocate of the armed solution, but it is important to point out the union's insufficient capacity to deal with international crises in a timely and effective manner, despite its longstanding commitment to maintaining peace, protecting human rights, preventing conflict and strengthening international security, in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter. we stress that it is in the interests of the union and the member states to act in a coherent manner as guarantors of security, not only in europe but also in the rest of the world, and in particular in neighbouring countries. however, these demands must be carefully weighed, because in times of crisis, the priority is above all recovery and employment!
in writing. relations between belarus and the eu are difficult and tense, in particular because of systematic human rights violations. nevertheless, it would be useful to re-establish political dialogue with the authorities of the country in order to achieve the abolition of the death penalty, the release of all political prisoners, the establishment of an independent judiciary, the prohibition of torture, etc. the eastern partnership summit could be an ideal platform for launching such a message.
in writing. the lithuanian presidency of the council and the eastern partnership summit in vilnius should probably be seen as an ideal opportunity to improve relations with belarus, once all political prisoners have been released, with a view to resuming political dialogue, inter alia on democratic reforms, free and fair elections, respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and cooperation with the opposition and civil society, provided that the belarusian authorities demonstrate respect for these core values.
in writing. as eastern partnership countries (ukraine, georgia, moldova and armenia) are facing open and increasingly alarming pressure from russia to dissuade them from joining the european union, we need to show the many benefits of such a partnership for both these countries and russia. russia wants to remain a significant player on the international stage, which is understandable. it shares a common history with these eastern european countries and has established over time economic, political, energy, trade relations, etc., which it intends to maintain. but the eastern partnership does not want to cast a shadow over it. on the contrary, it would also allow it to extend its zone of stability and cooperation along its borders. the eu regularly invites russia to participate in this process through constructive engagement. the forthcoming vilnius summit would be a key milestone in our political association and in the process of economic integration with our eastern european neighbours. we have common interests that lead us to collaborate.
in writing. on 7 september, european officials condemned the pressure exerted by russia on the eu's eastern partners, with ukraine and moldova at the forefront, ahead of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius at the end of november. these countries, which could sign or initial their association agreement with the union on that occasion, are facing export barriers at the russian borders, customs pressure and the threat of rising gas prices. this is not a game of fear, it is arguments that must be in competition, not pressure or other economic threats. the soviet era is over!
in writing. the creation of a common space is one of the european union's greatest achievements. however, this has come with a number of challenges that europeans are slow to address. the european union must now find solutions to guarantee free movement while ensuring safety for all. the establishment of an internal security strategy will enable europeans to respond to growing transnational challenges more effectively than by simply coordinating national policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i would remind you that parliament is now a full-fledged actor in the field of security policies and therefore has the right to participate actively in defining the characteristics and priorities of the european security strategy. the member states and the commission have so far not really drawn the full benefit of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, so that the european parliament continues to play a relatively marginal role in this process, given the non-integration of its positions on the subject, in particular the taking into account of the european charter of fundamental rights. we ask the council to take due account of parliament's reflections on the new european security strategy before adopting it.
in writing. despite the current economic conjecture, it is important to call on the commission to present a new strategy for health and safety at work. it is imperative that progress be made in this area. for the strategy to be effective, we need to establish it at european level and not just at national level. national programmes are not always pursued with the same intensity. new technologies are creating new problems in the field of safety and health at work. increased stress in the workplace is a key element, which needs to be taken into account as it was not at the heart of the previous strategy. i regret that we have not gone further in the agreement on magnetic radiation and that there has been no legislative proposal on musculoskeletal disorders.
in writing. after much delay, the european commission seems to have abandoned any strategy on occupational health, against the wishes of parliament. the crisis has been used as a pretext for considering the quality of work as a secondary issue. it is therefore our duty to bring this issue back to the forefront!
in writing. corporate strategies involving concentration on core activities, decentralisation of production units, the use of production in countries with low wages, low price policies and access to markets by adapting products and services to customer needs in ever shorter time frames are leading to rapid and significant transformations of the companies that manufacture the products. this has resulted in continuous fluctuations in orders, organisational changes and restructuring which have consequences for the workers. the increasing transnationalisation of group management increases the need to find cross-border solutions in the field of labour policy. however, for workers, the scope of labour and social law regimes normally stops at the respective national border. this process of transnationalisation must not be carried out at the expense of the most socially weak workers or lead to wage and social dumping. the objective is to achieve high-performing enterprises with quality jobs and a high employment rate, and this can only be achieved through a high-quality, legally protected social dialogue.
in writing. − the use of unaccompanied minors for immigration purposes has been on the rise for some years. in many cases, this is a form of moral blackmail, whereby traffickers and illegal immigrants take advantage of the protection afforded to vulnerable persons such as minors. the aim is to provide the unaccompanied minor with a kind of ticket of admission for family members and other potential immigrants. that is an important aspect which is completely ignored in mrs griesbeck's text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the situation of unaccompanied minors in the european union. children are by nature vulnerable. they are especially so when they are alone and fleeing their country. the problem of unaccompanied minors is first and foremost a human tragedy because these children are likely to be victims of human trafficking or sexual exploitation. the report insists that the member states and the competent bodies should be made fully aware of their obligations and duties in this area. it also called for precise figures to be drawn up on the number of unaccompanied children and encouraged the member states to mobilise more financial resources in this area. children are children first and foremost and every effort must be made to protect them.
in writing. unaccompanied minors are in a particularly vulnerable situation. the european union needs to attach particular importance to them, especially when they find themselves in a situation where a sanction is necessary because of deviant behaviour. i welcome this report which calls for a european unity on minimum rights and procedures. the european parliament also recalled that the detention of children should be prohibited except in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. we hereby ask the commission to develop strategic guidelines for the member states, which should be based on their best practices, take the form of common minimum standards and cover each stage of the process, from the arrival of the child on european territory until a lasting solution is found for him, in order to ensure adequate protection. we also call on the member states to adopt, on the basis of these guidelines, national strategies for unaccompanied minors and to designate a national contact point to coordinate the implementation of these measures and actions.
in writing. i abstained because i am a supporter of cultural exceptionalism and cannot defend the commercialisation of culture. it is clear that standardization is under way. culture is the cement of positive identities, which defines both the individual and the collective, which makes us exist as people and as peoples. it is the highest expression of a people's identity and the foundation of social cohesion. culture is an integral part of the history of nations and that is why it is important to preserve it. it is important to maintain cultural diversity in the face of increasing standardisation.
in writing. the creative and cultural sectors (ccs) are a heterogeneous group of organisations of very different sizes, active in a variety of fields, such as architecture, artisanal arts, cultural heritage, design, festivals, film, television, music, visual arts, performing arts, archives and libraries, publishing and radio. according to the 2010 european competitiveness report, these sectors account for up to 4.5% of gdp and 8.5 million jobs in the european union. they also play a key role as catalysts and relays of innovation, the positive effects of which are not limited to the spheres of culture and creativity, but extend to many sectors of the economy. in the face of these challenges, it is important today to change the public and political discourse and perception of the creative and cultural sectors. it is time to show that they are creators of value and jobs, which are generally not locatable, that their contribution to societal value is real and that they are the digital future of europe.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 october 2013, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr nikolaos salavrakos on fishing restrictions and territorial waters in the mediterranean and the black sea methods of conflict resolution [2011/2086(ini) ] (a7-0288/2013).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 october 2013, at 12 noon.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs mcavan, for the excellent cooperation we have had throughout these months of work and pressure. mr perelló rodríguez has just mentioned that tobacco kills one in two smokers; 700,000 deaths a year in europe, 50 a day in my country, belgium alone. young people are starting younger and younger, they are the main reason - as we have said - for our actions. the liberal group, which i represent, thanks the commission and supports it in most of the ambitious measures it proposes, starting with the desire to ban the characteristic aromas which give tobacco that fruit, vanilla, chocolate and menthol taste, in short, which suggests that it would be little or no harm at all. it was also essential to strike a good balance with regard to the size of health warnings, another key provision of the directive. at present, only ten member states offer such combined notices, photos plus messages. our group proposes a compromise of 65% of the front and back surfaces of cigarette packs and opposes neutral packaging which no longer leaves the freedom of choice to the smoker who has made that choice. the freedom to smoke, on the other hand, is also the freedom to try to quit, if the smoker wants to. that's the reason for our liberal fight for a safe and accessible e-cigarette, a product that, in any case, according to research, is infinitely less toxic than cigarettes. our amendment no 170, which is the joint amendment today, has a twofold purpose: to reject the path proposed by the commission and the ministers. the e-cigarette is not a drug. it is our duty to ensure that smokers and the millions of vapers who now expect better from us have easy access to it, and we must do so under very strict conditions: the application of legislation on quality and safety, the prohibition of sale to minors and also the restriction of advertising and marketing in line with that of tobacco. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon - as we have said - parliament has a unique opportunity to show that it is independent. we'll know if he won the battle against the lobby. we have no choice but to be ambitious, and that is to vote for the mandate of our rapporteur. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. madam president, mrs ries, we obviously share all the concerns. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of electronic cigarettes, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include electronic cigarettes. their objectives are clear: if the market remains as profitable and expanding as it is, they will have a complete grip on the market. so it's a serious problem, they're going to sell the cure and the disease. in such a delicate ethical problem, ethics may be in the dust, if i may use the expression. and so, should we not secure the alternative of the electronic cigarette by a much better-controlled sale?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i am not sure that mr tarabella has read our compromise amendment, which we are putting forward today with the epp, the ecr and a whole series of colleagues who have joined us in this fight. indeed, what we want to do is exactly what he is putting to me here, which is to ensure the safety and quality of these devices, but we do not want it to be a medicine. when he talks to me about the big tobacco companies, i think he forgets to mention that those behind the door are much more invisible in this debate, but from the very beginning they have been the pharmaceutical lobbies. what is at stake here is competition with its nicotine substitute, which constitutes the bulk of this market. so you have to be careful when you talk about lobbying. what we really want is not to restrict access to e-cigarettes to those millions and millions of vapers. this e-cigarette allows them to smoke with considerably less risk than tobacco and i think that the key is the deaths we are going to save. so you have to know what we're talking about here.
thank you, mr president. we are discussing here today an amendment to a directive on a product which - and we all know this - is extremely harmful, bad for health and highly addictive. if that product did not exist on the market today and someone invented it and wanted to bring it to our european market, we would all say almost in unison: "no way, we're banning that product". are we doing that today? of course you didn't. it's a matter of course. a lot of people smoke. but we do have a very, very important goal in mind. i am therefore surprised that we cannot reach an agreement across party lines, smokers and non-smokers. it is particularly about our children and our grandchildren. do any of us want our children or grandchildren to start smoking? of course you didn't. all the proposals of the commissioner, supported by the council, and of our committee on energy, research and technology, with our excellent rapporteur, deserve broad support in this parliament. i would ask you to give our rapporteur a mandate to start negotiations with the council. we shall have better legislation in no time.
the president, the president-in-office, the commissioner, and my colleagues. in every case there are moments when we have to weigh different interests and arguments, but there is always a moment afterwards when we have to make clear choices. the choices we make today cannot be made half-heartedly. because when we vote on the new tobacco directive, we are not just voting on a package of rules. we are voting on the lives and health of people, young people in particular, people who are often not yet strong enough to resist all kinds of temptations. so please let us put health unequivocally first. let us adopt clear rules and let us also give the negotiators a mandate straight away. let us discourage tobacco use to the utmost, let us say a clear no to all the marketing tricks that make tobacco attractive to young people, who - i cannot stress this enough - do not always have the courage and strength to resist all these temptations and make the best possible choices for their own health. colleagues, reconciling water and fire is not possible. so we shouldn't want that either. we must put the health of europeans, and young europeans in particular, above economic interests. for those of you who prefer to put economic interests first, i would like to add that tobacco not only causes health damage, but that this damage also has very high economic costs. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. let's take that chance.
president. - madam commissioner, i should like to begin by expressing my support for the zanoni report as a whole. i think it is important that additional issues such as biodiversity and, above all, climate, should also be addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think you're right. many of us - and unfortunately also in this parliament - are a little blind to the success in the united states, which is actually a success in name only. it 's like a dream . very cheap gas available to industry. but it could be a nightmare. and we have to be very careful in europe not to copy that. a nightmare in terms of the impact on the environment. but it's also a socioeconomic story that is not a straightforward one. that is why the zanonizo report is so important. we have been waiting for some time for an initiative from the commission. i personally think that takes far too long. but we are not going to wait for that and that is why we think it is very important that it should be part of the report. if we are going to change the environmental impact assessment it is important to involve the whole unconventional gas sector in the debate right away. environmental impact assessment should also be made compulsory for this sector. in other words, environmental impact assessment should be made compulsory for all unconventional energy sources, both in the exploration, exploitation and extraction phases.
in writing. the european parliament has always supported the european union's global navigation satellite system (gnss), which is being implemented through the galileo and egnos programmes. unfortunately, today the european union is dependent on the us global positioning system (gps). i therefore welcome the agreement on a cooperation agreement with ukraine on a global satellite navigation system for civil use which will allow us to extend the coverage area of egnos. since ukraine is one of the eight countries in the world with significant technology in the field of satellite navigation, this cooperation will promote the union's independence in this field.
in writing. the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, was approved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i think that, by virtue of an internal agreement, the committee on employment and social affairs should be involved in the procedure, so that it can contribute and contribute constructively to the evaluation of requests to mobilise the fund.
in writing. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 2 594 672 from the fund reserve (40 02 43) to the fund budget line (04 05 01). this is the sixth proposal to mobilise the fund submitted to the budgetary authority in 2013. the proposed contribution will leave more than one quarter of the maximum annual amount allocated to the fund available to meet the needs of the last four months of the year, in accordance with article 12 (6) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the trilogue on the commission proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the fund could take a simplified form, as provided for in article 12 (5) of the legal basis, unless there is no agreement between parliament and the council. the committee on employment and social affairs must be associated with the procedure by internal agreement, so that it can contribute and contribute constructively to the evaluation of requests to mobilise the fund.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament is reiterating that the fight against corruption is an absolute necessity, especially in these times of crisis when a lot of effort is required from european citizens. corruption is not only a moral offense but is all the more shocking when it concerns the financing of the union's external aid to third countries. these fraudulent actions call into question some of the basic principles of democracy, namely equality and justice. it is essential to combat this kind of practice from another age. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as the shadow rapporteur for this report for my political group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good report which covers the subject very broadly. the red thread in the report, which we as a group would also like to see, is the vicious circle of corruption which has a negative impact on human rights, and the fact that human rights which are not adequately defended give rise to more corruption. europe must provide support in this area, especially in its foreign policy. but the question is, of course, how do we break this vicious circle? the present report provides a useful starting point and i believe it sets the right tone. the eu must coordinate its internal and external policies: start with yourself, then teach others. it is the only way to speak with sufficient weight.
in writing. corruption accounts for 5% of global gdp. which is unacceptable. the european union must react swiftly and firmly. while it is important to severely punish any person or organisation responsible, it is also important to work upstream in terms of prevention. corruption often fuels crime, fuels conflict, and keeps governments fragile, thus holding back development. we must therefore work ahead of corruption and terrorism on development programmes, education, health to ensure a minimum standard of living for the citizen. to paraphrase algerian president abdelaziz bouteflika, i would say that 'the fight against poverty is perhaps the first indispensable element in the fight against terrorism, because it is a factor destroying human virtues and the basis of human solidarity'.
in writing. the european union can only become a credible and influential actor in the fight against corruption if it responds appropriately to the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders. i hope that the commission's identification of areas vulnerable to corruption in the member states will help to strengthen efforts to combat this phenomenon, facilitate the exchange of best practices, identify european trends and stimulate peer learning and greater respect for european and international commitments. the strengthening of the regulation and transparency of business and trust registers in all member states of the european union is a prerequisite for the fight against corruption, both in the union and in third countries. european regulation should impose an obligation to register all legal structures and beneficial ownership data, and that these data should be published online, marked electronically and in a searchable format so as to be available free of charge.
in writing. following the success of the pilot project, the two arms of the budgetary authority decided, at the initiative of parliament, in the 2012 budget that the project could, by moving to the next phase, be converted into a preparatory action covering three years, from 2012 to 2014. the aim of the action is to set up an 'interinstitutional system for forecasting long-term developments in the major policy files of the european union'. the aim is to produce joint analyses of the likely outcomes of the major dossiers for the use of policy makers. in addition, to achieve this objective, it would now be appropriate to study in detail the design of specific mechanisms for promoting closer cooperation between the research services of the different institutions and the different union bodies responsible for analysing policy developments in the medium and long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes two amendments to the 'brussels i' regulation on jurisdiction in the field of labour law: firstly, a court reserved for disputes concerning collective action, in accordance with the rome ii regulation, namely that of the place where the collective action is to be or has been brought; secondly, when the worker takes legal action against the employer, the withdrawal clause, when there is no habitual place of work, should be reworded to refer to the establishment which gives or has given him his daily instructions rather than to the place where he was employed. the aim of these amendments is to protect workers collectively and individually, who are generally the weakest party in an employment relationship, and to ensure legal consistency and avoid undermining national legal traditions in the field of labour law by ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and the applicable law overlap.
in writing. we have reached agreement on the responsibility of each member state to fulfil its obligations as flag state effectively and to verify that vessels comply with directive 2009/13/ec. the adaptation of european standards and rules to those expressed in the maritime labour convention, and their uniformity for all member states, are important issues in order to avoid social dumping and unfair competition between member states. in order to ensure this standardisation and to ensure that member states comply with their obligations, it is crucial to have a control and certification system in place.
in writing. i believe that the provisions of the maritime labour convention 2006 on flag state control should be incorporated into eu law in a more detailed and specific way. the main advantage of incorporating the maritime labour convention into eu law is that it will be much more strictly enforced within the union, for example through eu infringement procedures, which will ensure even greater compliance with the provisions. the european union provisions on flag state control should take much better account of the specific and explicit requirements of the maritime labour convention in order to avoid differences of interpretation between member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. i welcome the fact that parliament has recalled that tobacco is the most serious preventable cause of death in europe, with almost 700 000 deaths a year. in order to ensure that this industry does not lure our children into this deadly addiction, i voted in favour of all the amendments which could make tobacco consumption in europe less attractive.
in writing. tobacco kills about 700 000 people in europe each year. it's the number one cause of premature death. in the face of these alarming figures, we had to act. that is why we voted for a directive that focuses mainly on protecting european citizens by ensuring good information (65% of the surface area of tobacco packaging must be reserved exclusively for warning messages and illustrations), by tackling excessive marketing techniques put in place by producers, and by prohibiting any additions of attractive flavours or sophisticated packaging. as far as electronic cigarettes are concerned, i believe they should be regulated in the same way as any other tobacco product. the introduction of electronic cigarettes will give tobacco consumers access to a so-called substitute product that is much less harmful to health.
in writing. 700 000 european citizens die each year as a result of tobacco use. i have spoken in favour of banning fine and flavoured cigarettes, of warning labels covering 65 to 75% of the surface of the packaging and of a border on electronic cigarettes. a blow to the cigarette industry, which is already preparing for the parade. these multinationals are not defeated and are starting to buy the companies that make electronic cigarettes to sell the disease and its cure. ethics are in the wind! there's drinking and smoking in this vote. we could have gone further, but this is a step forward because the tobacco industry is no longer invulnerable in europe, so the symbol is strong. we wanted e-cigarettes to be sold in pharmacies because they are not sufficiently controlled and there are still too many mysteries about their side effects and their components. we must regulate this product so that it never harms the consumer or becomes a gateway to cigarettes for teenagers.
in writing. i welcome the fisheries agreement signed between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania. it is a balanced agreement. in exchange for financial compensation, the european fleet is granted access to a limited amount of marine resources, equivalent to the surplus of the mauritanian seabed. despite this limitation, it is still the most important fisheries agreement in terms of volumes and marine diversity for the european union. on the mauritanian side, the fisheries sector is essential to the economy. it accounts for 50% of exports, 29% of gdp and 36% of local employment. this agreement allows europeans to actively contribute to the development of the country while preserving the sustainability of mauritania's seabed. i also welcome the effort to incorporate human rights clauses into this agreement.
in writing. mauritania is a country of nomadic culture which, although rich in one of the world's richest fishing grounds, has no fishing tradition. the absence of a national fishing fleet may be explained by nomadism, lack of economic resources and lack of political will. the mauritanian government has therefore chosen to let foreign fleets, including union vessels, exploit its resources. from an economic point of view, fisheries account for 50% of export earnings and 29% of gross national product (gnp). export and processing enterprises are mainly mixed capital enterprises. in its relations with mauritania, the union must endeavour to help the country develop economically and socially, in order to create the right conditions for encouraging foreign investment. the union should also provide sectoral assistance to enable mauritania to manage fishing activities in its waters in a sustainable manner in the long term and to combat illegal fishing by applying the principles of good governance and by respecting international standards on the law of the sea.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on gendercide, a worldwide phenomenon which involves killing a person on the basis of his or her sex, usually female. it is necessary to combat this kind of practice, which is based essentially on prejudice, in order to move as quickly as possible towards a society in which gender equality is the law. it was important for the european parliament to recall that nearly 100 million women are victims of this every year around the world to raise awareness and reaffirm our principles and values.
in writing. i voted for this text, of course, gendercide is a neutral term to describe the deliberate killing of a person of one sex simply because of that sex. recent estimates of the male-to-female ratio show an increase in the number of "absent" women in the world population, with the number approaching 200 million. this is an extreme increase since 1990, when the number of women "absent" was 100 million. girls continue to be the target of relentless discrimination in terms of sex-determination, abortion, abandonment and infanticide of girls simply because they are female. sex selection may occur before pregnancy is established, during pregnancy through prenatal sex detection and selective abortion, or after childbirth through infanticide or child neglect. sex selection is sometimes used by families for balancing purposes but it is most often practiced to favor boys, given that in some cultural traditions, girls are considered a burden.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the impact of budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities. this report highlights the implications of the current european austerity policy for subnational authorities and stresses the importance of public investment, particularly in relation to the european structural funds. in the wake of the financial crisis, budgetary rules in europe have been tightened considerably. the balance shifted to a policy of strict austerity, with far too little attention paid to sustainable investment and socioeconomic recovery. this also affects regional and local authorities. their expenditure is included in the national debt calculation, including expenditure as co-financing of eu structural funds. this is in the context of very significant investment by local authorities, largely in public goods such as streets, squares and cultural heritage. i am therefore very pleased that this report has been adopted by a large majority. the european parliament calls on the member states and the commission to exclude public expenditure by member states for the co-financing of the structural and investment funds from the public expenditure required to meet the strict european budgetary standards. it is precisely this kind of investment, in sustainable development, employment, innovation and support for smes, that europe needs most.
in writing. the current crisis places significant constraints on the public finances of the member states. moreover, in the context of the current financial and economic crisis, local (regional and local) authorities are increasingly faced with the problem of solving a conundrum concerning their capacity to guarantee productive investment. on the one hand, they are experiencing a sharp decline in their incomes as central governments reduce transfers and ask regional and local governments to contribute to austerity measures, while on the other hand, they are increasingly required to provide, because of the crisis, highly demanded social services which are putting additional pressure on their public finances. in this particular context, i believe that concrete proposals should be made to ensure the greatest possible flexibility in the national co-financing of the union's development expenditure in a context of strict implementation of the csf. to achieve this, the extent of the impacts of the current crisis on the ability of local authorities to achieve the growth and employment targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy needs to be analysed. it is necessary to suggest ways of improving the financial capacity of these entities for productive investment.
in writing. the european union, as the world's largest provider of official development assistance, must intervene by putting in place a comprehensive eu fisheries strategy for the pacific region, consistent with fisheries, trade and development policies. this overall strategy aims to improve the union's relations with the pacific and to help the states of the region to make progress in their fisheries management. in order to foster this development, it is crucial to put in place more transparent policies to combat illegal and unregulated fishing and to improve the judicial security of european vessels.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the aim of this report is to recommend the development of a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific that takes into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to enhance potential synergies, to achieve a multiplier effect that maximises the beneficial impacts for both pacific states and those of the european union, and to increase the visibility of the eu in the region. the pacific offers a very high fishery value, being the main producer of highly migratory species, including tuna, as it represents 80% of the world catch, and in particular the western and central pacific, which totals 49% of the catch in 2010 and 52% in 2011.
in writing. in order to make fishing sustainable, in the face of the increasing population and urbanisation along the mediterranean coast, it is imperative to take account of resources and therefore avoid depleting marine stocks and resources. it is also crucial to establish better cooperation between member states and third countries in order to resolve conflicts concerning maritime zones and the delimitation of the boundaries of these zones peacefully. eu waters are equipped with all the conditions necessary for economic, social and environmental benefits to be derived from fishing. it is therefore essential to bring elements of coastal control, surveillance and safety to this policy in order to develop this sector in a sustainable way that is beneficial for fishermen, citizens and the marine environment.
in writing. the mediterranean sea supports 30% of the world's maritime traffic, and about 75% of the mediterranean sea's fish stocks are overexploited i am very concerned about the increased competition for dwindling marine stocks and resources, which is creating regional tensions and can lead to disputes between coastal states over maritime zones. in this context, i call for intensified efforts at regional, national and european level to improve the regulation of access to resources. i also urge all coastal states to intensify their efforts to phase out overfishing in the mediterranean and black seas, as the decline in fish stocks will increase the potential for conflict in these areas.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by andrea češková, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council (com ((2012) 0436 c7-0226/2012 2012/2169 (dec)) (a7-0310/2013).
i would like to say, madam president, that i am very pleased that the council is taking part in this debate. it's been different. so thank you for that. but in any democracy, in any serious democracy, it must be the case that the taxpayers, public opinion and certainly the responsible members of parliament are given access to and held accountable for the expenditure of taxpayers' money. the council and the european parliament have been at odds for more than three years now. this is not a healthy situation. we simply do not receive enough information from the council on the use of the budget. and it's a lot of money. after all, it is almost half a billion euros, 500 million euros. so we can't grant an acquittal. we cannot give a certificate of good administration unless we also have the documents proving that the money has also been well spent. there are a lot of questions. there is the court of auditors' comment that there have been problems in the procurement procedure for cleaning services. the shortcomings in the selection and award criteria have been noted. this is the first point. second point: there is a new situation after all since the treaty of lisbon. we have not only the budget of the council of ministers, we also have the budget of the european council. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. but we can't. third point: it has already been said in the debate on the résidence palace dossier. there are a lot of questions about that. where do the payments come from? where's the money coming from? what payments have already been made? what are the payments that have yet to be scheduled and made? finally, the famous ei of the european council, the building that will be built next to the residence palace, which will become the headquarters of the president of the european council. there are a lot of questions about that. that would cost more than 320 million euros. we as a parliament want to see accountability. that is our job as discharge authorities. i would therefore call on the council to provide us with the information we are asking for.
for the epp group it has been said many times: it is quite right that this parliament refuses to grant discharge to the european council and the council for the implementation of the budget. i would like to say that i find it scandalous that less than a month ago the so-called european president herman van rompuy actually called the european court of auditors to account, or at any rate asked the european court of auditors to 'report in a more nuanced way'. that is a euphemism and a thinly disguised request to remain silent as much as possible about the unacceptable waste and misuse of taxpayers' money in various european institutions. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. yes, one feels a bit like the soviet union or at least a banana republic when one hears such things. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, i must also say that we are right to ask questions of the residence palace, to ask questions of the cost of the so-called egg. that's right. but there are also many problems in this institution. in this institution too, more than 200 million euros are being spent in the coming years on new buildings for the european parliament, in a sort of 'great secret', and that too is kafkaesque. our criticism of the two councils is very justified, but it is also a little hypocritical.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the finalisation of the european research area by 2014 by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000081/2013 - 2013/2695(rsp) - b7-0503/2013), and- the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the finalisation of the european research area by 2014 by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000082/2013 - 2013/2695(rsp) - b7-0504/2013).
a trade agreement between the european union and taiwan is of great importance. trade between the eu and taiwan has grown dramatically over the past 20 years. i welcome that, because taiwan occupies a very special place and is not doing well on the international scene, given the relentless opposition of the so-called people's republic of china. unlike the so-called people's republic, taiwan is a democracy, and that can never be stressed enough. if taiwan and china succeed in concluding a trade agreement together, then it should also be possible for the european union to start negotiations on such an agreement. such a move could bring great benefits to both partners. a trade agreement would help taiwan get out of its diplomatic isolation. it would be an unmistakable message to communist china. the advantage for european companies would be better access to the taiwanese market. it could also be a start to better protecting the intellectual property of european companies, because although the taiwanese authorities have already taken measures in this area, there is still a lot of work to be done.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all the members who have helped to achieve such an important result for the protection of the environment but also for a modern and competitive industrial policy. i agree with mr cofferati: it is a signal that we are also setting up as a model for growth and for an industrial policy which is not polluting but is also a leader in the small and mediumsized enterprises sector. i have also heard interesting proposals, such as those by mr manders and mr de martini, and i think they are good ideas which should certainly be examined. as regards the european patent, i had already asked my directorate-general to consider the possibility and the desirability of launching such a proposal, but the legal basis for it was not found in the internal market for which i am responsible. however, a legal basis could be found in the transport sector, where a european licence already exists for vessels used for the carriage of passengers or goods on inland waterways. i have already asked my directorate-general to contact the directorate-general of the commissioner and vice-president kallas to look further into the possibility of establishing a european driving licence. the same applies to the buoys, and i will inform the responsible colleague to see if a european solution can be found within the framework of the maritime code. we will then be responsible for keeping you informed of the information we have gathered. as regards the compromise packages, we welcome the whole block, we are pleased that they were adopted quickly, but we have some doubts about the competence of the committee set up by the directive and we have sent a statement to parliament's services on this subject for the minutes of the plenary session. i would like to thank mr harbour and all the members who have given another positive signal to an industry which is facing some difficulties, but such signals only encourage european industry and small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the only ones today that can allow us to create new jobs and thus give some hope to our young people. thank you. commission position on amendments by parliament the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission regrets the adoption of article 52, paragraphs 4 and 5, concerning provisions on the committee that have the potential to create confusion and legal uncertainty. the role of the committees which ensure control by member states on the commission's exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation (eu) no 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act should alter or further specify this role. in particular, the rules of procedure of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committees exercise their role defined by regulation (eu) no 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedures outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committees.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission proposal on flight time limitations is not a typical legislative proposal. it is a safety regulation. it was approved by the competent regulatory committee of member states’ representatives on 12 june 2013 by an overwhelming majority. the european aviation safety agency has been authorised to develop safer rules in aviation. my personal view is that safety regulation details should not be for political debate. they must be for authorised mandated experts. when we negotiate with our partners abroad – and we have quite difficult aviation negotiations, especially with countries in the east and south – we always strongly request from our partners with whom we negotiate that political interference in safety matters must be excluded. to facilitate constructive decision-making, i would like to give some clarifications concerning this regulation. first, as regards recital 5 of the proposed commission regulation, member states may apply and enforce on their operators provisions of a more protective nature than those in the regulation, providing that the member state’s request has been processed in accordance with the required procedures and that an equivalent level of safety is met or exceeded. second, the eu rules on home standby have been developed in such a way that no crew member will be on flight duty after more than 18 hours awake. the commission will request easa to adopt its certification specifications in such a way that no crew member will be on flight duty after more than 18 hours awake. third, on the question of night flights: the commission will request easa to prescribe in its certification specifications that airlines will be required to apply appropriate fatigue-risk management for flight duty periods longer than 10 hours at night. and fourth, stakeholders, including aircrew representatives, will remain involved in all future developments on the flight time limitation file, and so will parliament. parliament can decide to veto or not to veto the proposed regulation and keep the existing national rules for several years. flight time is not an unregulated business. the commission will respect your decision.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i would like to make two preliminary remarks: firstly, to thank those who have helped us to obtain fair information on this subject, which is certainly not easy technically, and secondly, to obtain information which will enable us to support good legislation here in parliament. i would also like to thank mr saïd el khadraoui in particular, who has still been trying to clarify certain points so that clear answers can be given to questions which have been rightly raised in various groups. and i think the commissioner's statement today has made that clear. as the epp, we have security as our priority and we really do not want to be accused of being the extension of industry or other lobbies. we want safety for the affected personnel and for the passengers. everything else is false and can be refuted in all our initiatives. the commission's proposal, after the studies we have carried out, is clearly a step forward for us compared with what we have today. it may not have achieved all that some had expected, but it is progress. so anyone who says that adopting this today would be a step backwards in terms of security is simply not making the right statement. that is the most important argument for us to support this. the commissioner's clarification today also means in our view that what is now considered to be more stringent regulation in certain countries on certain points does not need to be reversed, which is a very important point for me. and we must always, commissioner, take such measures in cooperation with the people concerned, particularly in the procedure. that is why the fourth point is also very important for us. i hope that in future too the dialogue here will be an objective dialogue and not a dialogue in which the truth is distorted, as we have unfortunately often heard or read.
i would like to say, mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, that i am aware of the complexity of the subject and the emotions it arouses in many of those involved. but i also think we should take a moment to look at the facts and then draw conclusions. i should like to say a few words about the procedure, which has been the subject of a great deal of criticism. but that is - as has already been said - the result of legislation which this parliament itself adopted some years ago. it has been said quite deliberately: "look, we should actually leave these kinds of technical issues in the hands of experts". easa has been working on it for three years. the commission has been taking over the work and consulting stakeholders for the past six months. at a certain point, a decision was taken, which was approved by the experts of the member states. and now we are presented with this file and we have only the choice to resist or not to resist. we've heard a lot about that file over the past few weeks. i certainly sympathized with some of the criticisms, but the fact is that we can only use a veto. in substance i think - and my colleague brian simpson has stressed this - that if you objectively compare what is now on the table with the national security rules, in 95 per cent of cases this is an equivalent and usually even a better proposal than the current national rules. the problem in the discussion is, of course, that it is not the current national regulations that are being compared, but the current practice. and fortunately, in many situations, it is more favourable than the minimum safety rules, because more favourable flight and rest arrangements have been obtained in the form of collective agreements or other arrangements. and i am glad to hear you, commissioner, repeat tonight that existing schemes or, of course, social legislation going further, but also safety legislation going further, will always remain possible if the right procedures are followed and if the result, of course, is greater safety. i will not go into the many examples we could give, but the non-regression clause is an important point. the fact that it is clarified that 18 hours is really the limit is important, that fatigue risk management will be organised on night flights. but above all, that this is only a foundation on which we can build in the coming years, with the involvement of all stakeholders and all parties concerned. i thank you and my personal advice is therefore not to support the motion for a rejection but to support the commission's proposal, in view of the clarifications that have been given in the meantime. thank you, sir.
mr president, the procedure under which we are to vote on the proposal before us no longer gives our assembly any possibility of correcting or strengthening it, and certainly not by last-minute proposals. in these circumstances, the question is whether or not these proposals would represent an improvement on the very incomplete and imperfect european and national rules currently in force. it's just pointless. this is not a false debate. because in the face of this proposal, which is for us to take or leave, the questions we have to ask ourselves today are the following: are we really convinced that after 11 o'clock in the night, or even 12:30 if departing in the afternoon, a pilot will still be alert and alert enough to handle any delicate manoeuvre? do we really believe that this will still be the case after a period of home detention which may result in flying hours after waking periods of 8 to 10 hours? are we really prepared to accept the idea that a few hours of rest on board a commercial airliner will enable the pilot to be fully operational after 16 hours in the air? various scientific studies, including one commissioned by easa in the preparation of this regulation, tell us exactly the opposite. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the safety of the crew and passengers, but also of any victims on the ground in any air disaster, that is at stake. we have no right to make mistakes unless we are convinced that all scientists are wrong, unless we believe that no unforeseen situation or adverse weather condition will ever require the intervention of pilots but also of flight attendants and stewards in full possession of their resources, both physically and mentally. we have no choice but to reject this proposal, the commission's proposal, and to ask you, commissioner, perhaps even with the last-minute elements, to get back to work without delay, taking this time fully into account the most recent recommendations from the scientific world. here's your warrant! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". listen, mrs meissner, i think that we have no room for error on security and i think that today the commission is making last-minute proposals. let it do so very seriously, after a vote in which we rejected the regulation, and let it come back with comprehensive proposals which are likely to satisfy us, not us environmentalists, but the safety of everyone! that is what we ask, nothing else, we are obliged to take it or leave it. we do not accept, and we ask the commission to come back with serious proposals which take account of scientific studies and which this time allow real harmonized progress for all without each of us having looked at our own national situations. aviation is by definition a transnational and european issue.
for the committee on transport and tourism. - first of all, i would like to thank the members for the debate. i think that we all, without exception, in this one, are putting aviation safety as an absolute top priority. everyone who's here. and i do not take it, mr cramer, that you are giving the impression that those who want to vote against your motion for a resolution tomorrow are against security. only we attach different conclusions to it. by supporting your motion for a resolution, we will de facto be returning to the status quo. (calling into the room) yeah, see you guys in the new one, maybe in three, four years. and in the meantime, for example, you will find yourself in a situation where the maximum flight time is 11.45 hours for night flights, whereas in the new proposal it is 11 hours. i can give you other examples. the proposal says that the total sum of flight times over a whole year will be reduced from 1 300 flight hours to a maximum of 1 000 hours. the weekly rest is also strengthened and increased for the benefit of the workers. so in other words, you must not just say that this is a dangerous proposal. i would also like to point out the misunderstanding that exists among many people. they are not comparing with the national legislation in force but with the common practice, which is indeed better in a number of cases. and that is good, thanks to social legislation, agreements that have been made. and they remain in full force and effect. finally, we must not forget that many people do not have the social protection that some fear will be lost. wrongly so. i think of the pilots and cabin crew in low-cost airlines and others who will be much better protected by these proposals than ever before. so in my personal opinion as rapporteur for comitology, we should not support the motion for a resolution. but the plenary will speak freely and we will all respect the decision of the plenary.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to ask the council and the commission straight away whether they can agree on what parliament is proposing. parliament is proposing that we organise a european humanitarian conference on this issue. that is what parliament is requesting in our resolution and i want to hear before the end of the debate whether the council can commit together with the commission to organising this. i think it is absolutely clear – the intervention of mr weber and mr swoboda are a clear indication – that this is needed, and we cannot ask others to open their doors to the refugees and do nothing ourselves. what is happening for the moment? i can tell you: germany has given temporary admission to 5 000 people; sweden has given permanent residence to 1 900 people. finland has tried to do a little – and that is it! there are some member states who are giving a quota for 50 syrian refugees, which is a scandal in itself! it is cynical to do that. so we need a conference as fast as possible where, firstly the commission and the council and all the member states can make an agreement on burden-sharing for these refugees so that everybody is at least making more or less the same effort as countries such as sweden and germany have made in the last weeks and months; and secondly, where we can also tackle the problem of help for lebanon and jordan. we need to give lebanon and jordan direct budget aid and at the same time macro-financial assistance, otherwise these countries will no longer be capable of letting these flows of refugees enter their country. finally, i think too that we have to look into the question of whether or not it is necessary to activate the temporary protection directive, as we did in the past with kosovo. what is a good solution? these people, as mr swoboda rightly indicated, do not intend to stay for ever in the european union. this is temporary protection until we have solved this issue at international level. so my question to mr barnier and to the minister of the lithuanian government is very clear. are you ready to organise such a european humanitarian conference? parliament is asking for that. we want to participate. we think, too, that you have to invite the neighbouring countries to this and the un international agencies, and naturally representatives from the syrian national council and from other people working in the field. and then finally i want to end my speech by repeating what i have already said. i think that the attitude of the international community towards the syrian tragedy is shameful and continues to be shameful. yes, we have tackled the problem of chemical weapons. i hope so, that we have tackled the problem of the chemical weapons, but what about the continuing massacres by the assad regime? there are a thousand people more or less who have been killed by chemical weapons, but more than 100 000 people have been killed by other means and we are still turning a blind eye to that tragedy. i think that in 20 years from now history books will describe us as cowards and maybe cowards are what we are for the moment.
mr president, even if europe agrees to open its borders more, it will not be able to prevent the humanitarian genocide that is being prepared in syria and in the region as winter approaches. it's indescribable, beyond all description. and the key is in syria. six million internally displaced people; two million refugees in the region and six thousand new arrivals every day in lebanon. so our aid must be focused there first, and so must our diplomatic efforts. it is difficult, it is possible, and the european union is already doing it. when i went to syria and lebanon ten days ago, i had no idea that our embassy in damascus was operating quietly with its local staff and that one of our officials, anis nacrour, spent ten days a month in damascus under difficult security conditions. i was unaware of the extraordinary work that angelina eichhorst and her team were doing on the ground and with the lebanese government. i had no idea that in damascus, 21 international ngos and un agencies were working in coordination with the syrian minister of social affairs to deliver aid, and that brahimi's team, which has mapped 2,000 different rebel groups and, at times, allies of al-nusra, al-qaeda, or the islamic front of iraq and syria, was busy negotiating every day with each of these actors to get aid to where civilians, by the thousands, are trapped in enclaves. and i was unaware of the efforts of unicef, since three million children have been out of school in syria for three years. all these efforts must be known, amplified and supported by diplomatic work. mrs georgieva told me yesterday that she had finally obtained a visa for a member of her team so that he could work in damascus. i pay tribute to the european union, and we must give our diplomats the means to continue humanitarian aid in syria and work diplomatically for a solution that is the only one that could end this war.
ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in general in favour of the new rules on professional qualifications, but there is one point on which i absolutely disagree with the proposal, and that is the language requirements for medical staff. i therefore asked for a split vote on amendment no 160. - why? - why? because this paragraph will cause problems in multilingual areas, like the place we all know very well: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the flemish region around brussels is partly dependent on these brussels emergency services. well, i can testify from personal experience that in a crisis situation where, for example, an emergency doctor is required, good communication and therefore language skills are essential. otherwise lives will be in danger! the present text does not guarantee that knowledge. i therefore urge you to vote for the first part of amendment no 160 but against the second part. leave it to the member states to regulate language skills. it will save lives.
in writing. on 12 september, the european parliament introduced the first pillar of a european banking union, placing over six thousand financial institutions under the supervision of the european central bank. the guarantee of the safety and solvency of financial institutions could not be at the expense of democracy. an interinstitutional agreement was therefore signed between the european parliament and the ecb. it gives meps a power of scrutiny over the ecb's new powers and ensures real transparency between the two european institutions.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement under consideration is the result of complex negotiations which were completed at the beginning of september 2013 and which led to the positive vote of the european parliament on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) regulation. the negotiations on the agreement between the european parliament and the ecb took place from may to september 2013 and were completed before the european parliament voted on the proposed regulation on 12 september 2013. the agreement provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the ecb's supervisory powers, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, closed-door meetings with the committee's bureau and, finally, through improved access to information, including the non-reserved part of the minutes of the supervisory board. it also ensures full cooperation between the two institutions in the context of investigations. finally, the draft interinstitutional agreement provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the selection procedure for the appointment of the chairman of the supervisory board.
in writing. - the adoption this afternoon of the interinstitutional agreement on the democratic accountability of the european central bank for its tasks in the framework of the common banking supervisory mechanism has finally completed the first pillar of the banking union. i would first of all call on the council to complete the legislative process on the ssm regulation very quickly now so that the entry into force of the european banking supervisory mechanism is not further delayed. in the iia negotiations, the parliamentary negotiating team has always adhered strictly to the principle that any shift of oversight from the national to the european level should be accompanied by a corresponding increase in transparency and accountability at that european level. i think we got this one, too. the agreement not only provides parliament with strong parliamentary control over the ecb's supervisory tasks, but also gives it far-reaching powers in the appointment and, if necessary, the removal of the chair and vice-chair of the supervisory board of the ssm. but as always, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. the next step is to give the iia a foothold and to make the theoretical rights it contains concrete and politically enforceable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the number and numerical importance of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees, as well as delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies. the aim is to achieve greater efficiency, and we can only hope for that.
in writing. in a democratic society, taxpayers and the public in general have the right to be kept informed of the use of public funds. i think it is essential that citizens should be able to know how their taxes are spent and how the political authorities use the powers conferred on them. it is therefore only natural that the council, as an institution of the union, should be subject to democratic control by the citizens of the union, since it is the beneficiary of the general budget of the european union. finally, i can only deplore the difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures for the financial years 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, which were due to insufficient cooperation on the part of the council, and i would point out that parliament refused to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial years 2009 and 2010, for the reasons set out in its resolutions. good cooperation between the two institutions, in the form of an open and formal dialogue procedure, could be a positive signal to the citizens of the union in these difficult times.
in writing. - shale gas is highly controversial because of the potential impact on the environment of the so-called fracking technique. so it's good that we're linking this to strict environmental conditions. the same applies to the possible release of methane gas. the extraction of shale gas has potential advantages: it can reduce the price of our energy and our dependence on foreign suppliers. but a clear european framework is essential to minimise the risks to people and the environment. therefore, shale gas drilling should be preceded by a mandatory environmental impact assessment. this obligation should apply not only to commercial exploitation but also to the research phase when the controversial fracking technique is used.
in writing. as the sustainable environment is one of the main challenges for the future of our planet, i welcome mr zanoni's report on the assessment of the environmental impacts of private or public projects. it has many positive aspects, clear rules on conflict resolution and real environmental impact assessments. however, this extremely complex issue still needs to be discussed in depth on key aspects such as impact assessment in the exploratory phase.
in writing. the energy challenge is one of the most important challenges facing europe. by 2020, the european union will put in place an ambitious framework for an innovative energy policy, with citizens at its heart. they must be assured of the highest standards of quality, safety, and security for the production and use of energy. i supported this afternoon a european parliament resolution to measure the impact of projects on the environment. the text provides for the imposition of an environmental impact assessment at the exploration stage of shale gas projects, when assessing whether or not to extract it. shale gas could help reduce europe's energy dependence, increase energy security and create new jobs. so this is a real opportunity, but also a real challenge. there is no doubt that within the next decade, human engineering will develop techniques for exploitation that are environmentally and health-friendly. today, a compromise has been found to satisfy both economic interests and environmental concerns. but as a proof of the controversy, the rapporteur was given a mandate to negotiate by 21 votes to none. it therefore remains to reach a final agreement with the commission and the council.
in writing. - we voted today on this report, which is part of the revision of the 1985 european legislation on environmental impact assessment. it is a major improvement, as it endorses a number of important issues and conditions that an erc must meet and it offers the public and ngos the opportunity to be involved during the different phases of the project. in addition, the rules and conditions for appointing objective, independent experts to draw up the met are also tightened and it is mandatory to carry out an met when extracting shale gas. this kind of european legislation is exactly an example of where europe can add value. the amended directive should help to ensure that the environment of citizens and future generations is better protected, that resources are used more efficiently and that more sustainable growth is stimulated in europe. that is why i voted for this report with the european greens, even though the final result on shale gas is not 100% what we would have liked. the mer is not mandatory during test drilling but only during the final stage of production. the directive is very valuable in protecting weak but crucial values such as our environment and public health.
in writing. on the basis of the precautionary principle and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 21 november 2012 on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, it is necessary to include so-called unconventional hydrocarbons in annex i to the directive, so that exploration projects are systematically subject to an eia. the production thresholds provided for in the current directive do not, in fact, take account of the daily production levels of these gases and oils, so that projects in these areas are not subject to an eia. achieving a truly 'green' economy will also require ensuring the sustainability of projects to be carried out in our territory, but also designing and implementing them in line with their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, particularly in relation to major infrastructure projects. the adoption of the eia directive would make it possible to move from theory to practice and to equip the union with a fundamental operational instrument if the global challenges of the 21st century are to be met.
in writing. the proposed new directive on pleasure craft and motor yachts significantly modernises existing eu rules on safety and environmental requirements for boats for private use, i.e. recreational, sport and training activities, including when rented, with or without crew. in this directive the term 'boat' refers to vessels between 2.5 and 24 metres in length and covers 'pleasure boats' (motor boats and sailing yachts, including those equipped with inboard or outboard engines) and 'motorised watercraft', essentially sea scooters, which are now clearly subject to the relevant rules. an important distinction is that the directive applies to pleasure boats and motorised watercraft, whether designed for sea or inland waterway use, but does not apply to vessels designed and used for the commercial carriage of passengers. the directive covers all vessels, from the small outboard motor inflatable boat used for fishing on a lake to the large motor yachts that can be seen on the italian riviera for example.
in writing. - i particularly welcome this report. the mutual recognition of training is one of the basic instruments of mobility in border areas, which benefits citizens, the economy and, last but not least, the regions concerned. but even at a time when the financial and economic crisis has increased unemployment in many countries, this recognition contributes to increased mobility and can guarantee proper employment conditions. education remains a matter for the countries, but the countries can help to reduce the barriers by aligning curricula and programmes, especially by reducing administrative barriers and making europe more cohesive.
in times of crisis, it is important to facilitate access to work. i therefore congratulate mrs vergnaud on her report. this agreement is a success for the single market and encourages the mobilisation of the professions. this mobility is essential to rebalance the labour market, to combat unemployment and to ensure economic growth. this agreement is also important because it not only promotes the labour sector but also strengthens the feeling of being a european citizen through this greater ease of mobility.
in writing. good work by mrs vergnaud. professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe, and is an integral part of the 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, it remains weak due to the lack of simple and clear rules for the recognition of professional qualifications. the vast majority of complaints to the solvit assistance centres concern the difficulties of citizens in obtaining recognition of their qualifications in order to practise their profession in another member state of the union. in this financial, economic and social crisis, unprecedented since its birth, europe must foster a new spirit of dynamism and innovation based on the values of unity, diversity and solidarity. for many european citizens, especially young people, who are facing alarming levels of unemployment, occupational mobility may be a necessity to secure their future and regain confidence in the european project. this review must achieve the objective of demonstrating to the member states, in compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, that european legislation, by bringing real added value to key policies for the daily lives of citizens, contributes to strengthening european citizenship and democracy.
in writing. − with our adoption this afternoon of the trialogue agreement on the recognition of professional qualifications, we are meeting the need for a smoothly functioning system of recognition of qualifications to promote labour mobility in the eu. however, we must remain vigilant to ensure that these regulations do not lead to undesirable side effects, for example in the area of the knowledge of languages required for the exercise of a profession. i am thinking specifically of the language requirements for doctors. this is a sensitive issue in the multilingual brussels, the european capital we all know. therefore, we have looked in particular at the possible (side) effect of the new vocational qualifications directive on the linguistic knowledge required by a member state. however, in public hospitals in brussels, which also provide mug services, the staff must be bilingual according to the belgian language laws. this is still the case, because this is part of the recruitment policy of public institutions in brussels. and recruitment policy is something different from recognition policy. we must also ensure that the general practitioner understands his patients, and this is also stated in the text adopted today. the language aspects of the vocational qualifications directive are therefore no reason for me to reject the trialogue agreement and to delay the rapid recognition of qualifications any longer.
in writing. the eu-armenia agreement is a further step towards deepening the eu-armenia relations. this agreement, which will mainly facilitate the mobility of citizens, is essential for establishing good relations between peoples. visa facilitation has positive consequences not only on the human and political level but also on the economic, scientific and cultural level. in the age of globalisation, it is more than necessary to help the free movement of people.
in writing. the conclusion of the agreements on visa liberalisation and readmission is a major step forward in the mutual relations between armenia and the union. however, further integration is needed. in its resolution of 20 may 2010 on the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus, the european parliament also called for the union to be more active in the region. the eu and armenia have signed an association agreement, which will strengthen cooperation between the two countries.
in writing. readmission agreements are one of the eu's tools to better manage immigration, control borders and avoid disasters like lampedusa. zero immigration does not exist, has never existed and will never exist. no coercive, repressive or security measures can ever prevent a human being from taking his chances elsewhere in order to secure the minimum of dignity to which every human being legitimately aspires. i want to believe that a win-win approach can be developed. i am hopeful that one day, in the not too distant future, the right to mobility will be extended to all citizens of the world, regardless of where they were born.
in writing. the conclusion of the readmission agreements facilitating the issuance of visas is a decisive step in the mutual relations between armenia and the european union. however, more integration is needed. in its resolution of 20 may 2010 on the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus, the european parliament also called for the eu to be more active in the region. the eu and armenia have agreed to continue to work together in the field of economic and monetary union.
in writing. i commend the commission on its report on the list of permitted health claims made on food. this regulation ensures a high level of consumer protection by providing the information necessary to make informed nutritional choices. this regulation shows once again that europe is at the service of consumers. over the years, consumer protection has been defined not only as ensuring fair prices but also ensuring that the product purchased is of good quality and safe, especially in an era of globalisation and technological progress.
in writing. since nutrition claims must never be inaccurate, ambiguous or misleading and the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic act, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to avoid specific measures being taken to reduce the control tasks entrusted to official veterinarians before the measures proposed in the draft commission regulation are first taken on official controls.
in writing. in the age of globalisation, it is imperative to strengthen the investment partnership between the eu and china. today, 26 member states have bilateral agreements with china. as a regional organisation, the eu has a strong interest in developing a partnership with china. this agreement will enhance investment security, facilitate access to new markets and promote european values. the eu is a soft power based on the norm, the rule, the example. its influence on the world is not limited to the export of its standards, which are the vehicles for the dissemination of its values. its influence is also exercised through economic aid, strategic and diplomatic rapprochement, alliances, armed intervention and reconstruction. finally, its weight in trade negotiations gives it a real world power role.
in writing. this proposal is the first of its kind in the area of one-off investment since the lisbon treaty gave the eu exclusive competence in the area of foreign direct investment in december 2009. an eu-china investment agreement would consolidate the existing bilateral investment protection agreements between china and most eu member states into a single, coherent text. the resolution by the committee on international trade calls for an agreement covering investment protection as well as market access. this agreement must remove the main obstacles, such as tariff and non-tariff barriers, discrimination against foreign companies, problems of access to justice, protection of intellectual property rights, etc. it must also include an effective corporate social responsibility clause and binding social and environmental clauses. all of this must be designed within a genuine sustainable development agenda and must be accompanied by a mechanism for resolving conflicts.
in writing. taking into account that the volume of bilateral trade between the european union and taiwan has increased twelvefold over the past twenty years, but that trade is still below its potential, i welcome the motion for a resolution on trade relations between the eu and taiwan. it is essential to develop a framework within which we can intensify trade relations. these agreements will create jobs in high value-added sectors. that will bring growth for both sides. moreover, the strengthening of our exchanges shows our support for democracies and pluralism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. the european union recognises taiwan as an economic and commercial entity. taiwan is the union's fourth largest trading partner in asia, while the union is taiwan's fourth largest market and its main source of foreign investment. exchanges take place in areas such as research and technology, the information society, education and culture, fisheries, the environment, climate change, intellectual property rights and standards. bilateral consultations are held annually to ensure coordination and consistency of these activities and to discuss issues of mutual interest.
in writing. in this agreement, the regulation of this matter is entrusted to the european aviation safety agency, which is the origin of the trade union disputes. although the commission promises to involve parliament in any revision of the rules, it does not explain how. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. voting blindly is not good for democracy!
in writing. the growing insecurity in syria has led a third of its population to seek refuge mainly in neighbouring countries. despite the exemplary solidarity shown by jordan, lebanon and turkey, the situation is no longer sustainable, especially as the number of refugees continues to grow. it is estimated that every day, about five thousand more syrians are fleeing their country. in the face of this extremely difficult situation, an ambitious humanitarian response at international level must be put in place as soon as possible. european aid reached €1.8 billion. despite this commendable effort, the situation is so serious that further efforts are needed. that is why i am calling for an international conference on syrian refugees. this would allow the adoption of a comprehensive strategy for the humanitarian situation in the region. member states also need to coordinate their responses in terms of refugee reception policy in europe. there are efficient mechanisms. parliament is taking its responsibilities by referring to it and asking the member states for more solidarity.
in writing. since the uprising against the assad regime began in march 2011, only 50,000 survivors of the repression have applied for asylum in europe. for most of them, the answer has been or will be positive. the acceptance rate of dossiers varies from 70% to 100% depending on the country. the most generous are germany and sweden, which have each registered 14 000 applications since 2011, with a very high recognition rate. european efforts are a mere drop in the bucket compared to the 5,000 syrians who are fleeing their country every day. in addition, the low numbers of refugees in europe are also due to the difficulty of accessing the territory of the union. the member states' embassies in syria have been closed and their representations in neighbouring countries do not or very rarely grant humanitarian visas. eleven european countries maintain a visa requirement for syrians who transit through one of their airports. in the european parliament, we urge the leaders to launch the directive on immediate and temporary protection as soon as possible, on the model of the one adopted for the refugees of the 1999 war in kosovo.
when will the victim-thinking about the roma end? for years, the eu has been treating roma communities as pathetic victims who are incapable of solving their own problems. the result of this approach is nothing. let us do it differently and remind the roma of their own responsibility and self-reliance. it may not be politically correct to say so out loud, but many of the problems are rooted in the behaviour and traditions of many of these people themselves. a report by the former minister for integration in the netherlands has pointed this out. just think of the disproportionate crime, the high school dropout rate, the lack of language skills, the phenomenon that quite a few parents are training their children for a career in organized begging or sometimes even prostitution. as long as we remain blind to such problems, all measures are doomed to failure.
"blue card" issue. mrs koppa links a deplorable murder in greece to the electoral success of a whole series of democratic, right-wing, nationalist parties in europe. this is a confusion of things which is totally unacceptable, which shows a lack of intellectual hygiene. but to condemn electoral successes now... what do you want, ma'am? should the elections be called off?
there are several things that can be done to avoid tragedies like lampedusa in the future. firstly, we must stop tolerating and rewarding illegal immigration. that's the best form of prevention, after all. when illegal immigrants realize that they are effectively being deported to their country of origin, many will be deterred from venturing across the border. secondly, we must accelerate investment in the technological resources of the eurosur system, such as satellite imagery, radar, unmanned aircraft, and so on. not only can we be more effective in tackling illegal immigration, but we can be there faster when people are in distress at sea. that way, we can save lives. thirdly, the north african countries must be made aware of their responsibility to fulfil their obligations in the area of search and rescue at sea and to act against illegal immigration to europe. development aid and other aid should be made conditional on this.
in writing. according to various reports, the nsa directly exploits swift systems. the us also believes that it can use swift data for all sorts of purposes, not related to terrorism. this constitutes two clear violations of the eu-us tftp agreement. that certainly warrants a suspension. and if the allegations are conclusively confirmed, then we'll have to consider termination. the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament the power to approve international treaties. but it's also our responsibility to monitor the follow-up and ask for suspension or termination if necessary. as long as they treat all europeans as terrorists, as long as they treat our private data as marketing tools and as long as they violate our individual freedoms day after day, no agreement with the european authorities will be possible!
in writing. jordan's participation in the programmes of the european union is crucial. the eu has a strong interest in deepening its relations with this moderate, modern country, which is developing reforms for the well-being of its citizens and has become a home for many syrians. the establishment of a close dialogue in addition to the traditional enp will further strengthen the special relationship that the eu has established with this country.
in writing. providing adequate assistance to jordan is essential, not only because of the country's humanitarian responsibilities towards syrian refugees but also in order to preserve jordan's political and economic stability. therefore, the framework agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on the latter's participation in european union programmes is particularly welcome as it allows for enhanced dialogue and cooperation with jordan and also sends a positive signal underlining the importance of the relations between the european union and jordan. however, it will be crucial to continue to assist jordan in all possible areas, through programmes that can be used under both the european neighbourhood instrument and other financial instruments of the european union's external action, in order to deepen political and economic dialogue and to support jordan in its reform drive towards strengthening democracy, accountability, transparency and justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european border surveillance system (eurosur), which, by better sharing of real-time information between member states, will allow for better control of the eu's external borders, while acting more effectively and in a more coordinated way to protect the fundamental rights of refugees arriving on european soil.
in writing. − the whole debate on cooperation in border services and surveillance should also be an opportunity to underline the need for member states to show increased solidarity beyond cooperation. the refugee tragedies of recent months cannot be answered by resolutions of ministers or parliaments, but by political decisions. we cannot demand that 'europe should do something' as is so often the case in such cases, but those who do demand this do not want to give up the competence to do it in a european way. europe must be able to shape proactive development aid and migration policies.
in writing. it was with great emotion that i learned of the deaths of hundreds of people who drowned in the mediterranean in early october while trying to reach european shores. this tragedy joins the long list of previous tragedies and forces europeans to plan ambitious responses. this report is part of that approach. the aim is to set up a european surveillance system, called eurosur. this common framework for the exchange of information will allow for better coordination and cooperation between the different national territorial surveillance agencies and the european schengen agency - frontex. this is a necessity that will make it possible to secure more efficiently and quickly the migratory flows that are taking increasingly dangerous routes. together, we can end these tragedies.
in writing. the tragedy of last week in lampedusa reminds us that the tragedy of illegal immigration is played out daily in the mediterranean basin. 300 people died when their luxury yacht caught fire while the 545 people on board were illegally reaching italy. the european union has understood the urgency and is taking measures to prevent these macabre crossings. the european parliament adopted a new system for monitoring the union's borders this afternoon. this instrument, called eurosur, which i supported, makes it possible to better prevent, detect and combat illegal immigration and crossborder crime. the battle is complex because these migrants are fleeing the poverty and war in their home countries, so it is there that their living conditions must be improved so that they do not opt for a journey that will prove fatal. europe will not turn a blind eye and is taking measures to save the lives of migrants. the principle of non-refoulement prohibits the return of a person to an area where his life and liberties could be threatened. cooperation between member states is paramount and 18 countries have already committed to applying these new rules from december 2013.
in writing. free movement is a founding principle of the european union, and the ability to move within the union without having to undergo internal border controls is one of its greatest achievements. many people use this freedom, and public opinion consistently ranks freedom of travel among the main benefits of the union. for our economy too, free movement is essential to the success of the single market. schengen cannot be cancelled it should, on the contrary, be reinforced by better management of the union's external borders, guaranteeing full mutual trust between member states. that is why your rapporteur supports the commission's proposal in general. sharing information and improving cooperation between member states and between agencies are essential steps towards a better division of tasks within the management of the union's external borders. they are also essential to help member states comply with international maritime law and save the lives of migrants.
in writing. − cadmium is a highly toxic substance whose contact with the consumer should be avoided as far as possible. as several alternative cadmium-free compositions for batteries for cordless power tools (e.g. cordless drills, etc.) are currently available, the exception in directive 2006/66/ec was no longer justified. i am also glad that parliament has taken the initiative of amending this directive to eliminate the exception for the use of mercury in cell batteries. these are so small that they often end up unnoticed in the ordinary household waste instead of being properly recycled. the quantity of mercury released can be greatly reduced by the abolition of the exception.
we don't inherit the earth from our parents, we borrow it from our children. it is our duty as citizens to take action to ensure the future of our planet. europe must succeed in what jeremy rifkin calls the 'third industrial revolution' to ensure more sustainable development. the timeframe for 2015 and 2016 (2015 for mercury button batteries and 2016 for nickel-cadmium batteries) is short but we must respond quickly and effectively.
in writing. i suggest to extend the derogation for nicd batteries for a period of one year, until 31 december 2016. given the possibility of 100% recycling of collected nicd batteries, i would point out that the risk is minor and can be managed. the extension of the derogation for a period of one year would allow for a reasonable compromise in that it would protect the interests of consumers and businesses along the value chain while ensuring the protection of the environment and human health and also allowing more time for technological evolution, sharing of good practices, learning and innovation in this area.
in writing. this oral question is a follow-up to the own-initiative report on extraditions to the cia over the past year. it also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. it reiterated the political recommendations and urged their full and immediate implementation. the question had been adopted by a large majority in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we are now in the process of drawing up a text which will serve as the basis for a joint motion by the main groups, and we hope to achieve a positive result.
in writing. as the borders are opening up, crossborder crime is on the rise. borders are no longer a protection for crime, criminals operate through networks. it is important to establish collaboration and cooperation between member states in order to develop instruments to combat these crimes. the exchange of information and data is essential in the implementation of anti-crime policy. it is important, however, that such exchanges of information take place in a manner that respects privacy and data protection. i therefore welcome parliament's resolution on crossborder crime.
in writing. i note that for a growing number of member states the prüm decision has become a common tool in crossborder police cooperation and criminal investigations. i regret that the implementation of this decision has been very late in several member states. this instrument should not be improved in collaboration with the commission until it has been fully implemented. i call on the member states concerned to implement the prüm decision fully and correctly so that it can be used to the maximum extent. the prüm decision was adopted under the old third pillar and its implementation is flawed by the lack of proper democratic monitoring and control by the european parliament. the commission must make proposals without delay to incorporate into the legal framework of the lisbon treaty the crossborder police cooperation instruments adopted in the context of the former third pillar, such as the prüm decision and the swedish initiative.
in writing. i welcome the motion for a resolution on caste discrimination. concern for human rights has always been at the heart of our parliamentary work. 260 million people are affected by this discrimination today. this is contrary to international law, human rights and is a structural factor in poverty. in addition, it generates discrimination in employment, education and access to land. it is therefore crucial and necessary to insist at european level that this kind of discrimination be recognised as a distinct form of discrimination rooted in a social and religious context and that the 'untouchables' be recognised as a group in their own right so that they can be taken into account in development programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. caste discrimination which is characterised, in both the public and private spheres, by practices of so-called untouchability towards communities stigmatised within a caste system is recognised as one of the most problematic human rights issues in the world today, as well as the main source of poverty and inequality in the countries where it occurs. the phenomenon thus represents a major obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and poverty eradication. an estimated 260 million people worldwide are subject to this form of discrimination, which not only violates the most fundamental principles of international human rights law but also leads to systematic violations of human rights in society, the perpetrators of which enjoy, in the vast majority of cases, total impunity.
in writing. the european parliament's information offices in the member states play an indispensable role as decentralised access points to all parliament services for civil society and official bodies. in particular, during information missions, the peti committee coordinates with the information offices to disseminate information to citizens and to organise press conferences. conversely, citizens sometimes submit petitions through their national information office of the european parliament, which forwards them to the peti committee. the right of citizens and residents of the european union to petition the european parliament, individually or on behalf of associations, is a long-established right conferred by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 227) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (article 44). the right to petition is an essential democratic tool because it allows meps to confront reality on issues that affect citizens and also shows that the european parliament is ready to intervene directly to promote and protect citizens' rights.
author. - mr president, it was my group that, for once, called for an emergency on the persecution of christians. the fact is quite remarkable, and it is a real plea for tolerance and freedom of religion and belief around the world. i went to syria about ten days ago and met with the families of the victims of maaloula, which enabled me, in the resolution before you, to name these four victims, not three but four victims, including an elderly man killed the next day, and the six who were kidnapped. beyond that, what is unbearable in syria, for those who have known syria before, with a dictator, and bloody, but also with great freedom of belief and religion, is to see today this country with fire and blood and the persecution of minorities, and especially christians. that is why my group not only participates in this resolution, but has been the instigator of it.
the question is "blue cardboard". my dear colleague, do you think that the persecutions taking place in the world today are directed exclusively against christians, as you seem to say, and that christian europe, as you wish, should react? or do we think, and i think it is my opinion, that there is religious intolerance today, and that in the wars between sunnis and shiites there are more victims than in operations simply directed against christians? what exactly is your perception?
the list of recent crimes against christians is long. there was the attack on the christian town of maaloula in syria, where people were killed, others were injured, kidnapped or are missing. there was the suicide bombing of the church in peshawar in pakistan, where at least 82 people were killed and 120 were injured. there was the violence in an iranian prison against pastor saeed abedini, who was sentenced to eight years in prison for trying to organize a network of churches in private homes. in the westgate shopping mall in nairobi, people were also killed because they were christians, or at least not muslims. these are just the cases that are in the news. the vast majority of cases of violence, humiliation and threats against christians never make the news, because they are repeated every day. the strange thing is that the joint resolution of this parliament does not establish any connection between all these facts. the bond has a name. that name is islam. there is a problem of islamophobia in the european parliament, which is a fear of putting the finger on the wound. we must put this fear behind us and make it clear to the governments of muslim countries that the violence against christians has gone on long enough, that we do not need words but actions to put an end to it. and if that does not happen, we will have to change our relations with those countries in a profound way.
author. - mr president, i shall try not to repeat what has already been said about sudan. it is true that we witnessed an absolutely massive crackdown, which is not surprising for such a secure regime, but what was more surprising was the scale of the protest. as the head of the sudan observer mission in 2010 and 2011, i would not have thought that in the opposition and given the difficult opportunities to speak out, there would be so many protesters taking to the streets about the price of oil and the reforms demanded by the imf. so it's more of a positive sign. what is less is the repression of unprecedented brutality, the 100 dead, the 800 people who are imprisoned, and the censorship that has fallen on the internet, on the media, etc. so now, the real question is, what can we do? the humanitarian aid? we can't touch that. the cotonou accords? obviously, omar al-bashir doesn't want to sign them, since he himself is under arrest warrant. so the possibilities of the european union are quite limited, but i would like to say that we are still on the ground and that we have a delegation from the european union in khartoum looking at these kinds of problems. let's not let it look like we left the chair empty.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, if there is a cessation of payments or a risk of cessation of payments within the european union, it must be made clear who is responsible for this state of affairs. it is not parliament, but the council, which is not in a position to table the various amending budgets. because that's what we expect. at least these three amending budgets are expected to be approved by the council. my second point is in line with that of my colleague, mr joseph daul. who is to say that if we approve the 2.7 billion, which is linked to own resources - this is a reduction in own resources which implies an increase in the national contribution - who is to say that the council will still be prepared to approve the other two amending budgets? i do not think that we can discuss the 2.7 billion on thursday without having the assurance that the council will also approve the 3.6 and 0.4 billion, i.e. the other two amending budgets. in short, if the council has asked us to make a global package, i agree. we're going to globalize everything.
in writing. the current political and economic context is threatening the sexual and reproductive health and rights of europeans. the financial crisis is pushing some eu countries to reduce the quality and availability of these services. in addition, very conservative and liberty-squatting positions on sexual rights are flourishing in europe. the european parliament is therefore voting today on the report on sexual and reproductive rights to raise awareness in the various member states of the unacceptable decline in women's rights. sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion, sex education, family planning, contraception, or sexual health should be self-evident. in some countries this is not the case, and in others it is gradually disappearing. we had to react because nothing will ever justify the trampling of women's rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, i will speak first on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism and then on behalf of my group on the budget in general. firstly, on behalf of the committee on transport, i am pleased that some of our requests have been met with regard to the resources of emsa, the maritime safety agency, and the new maritime surveillance missions it will have to carry out. fortunately, because we are also going to vote on my colleague mr taylor's report on the question of marine pollution. we have also preserved the railway agency's resources in the budget, and i am also pleased about that. i now speak on behalf of my group on the whole budget. and here, commissioner, i am not happy about what is happening. we have a 2014 budget today which, for the first time in a long time, is very much down on the previous year's budget. this is obviously the consequence of the multiannual financial framework, the bad multiannual financial framework, which we should never have adopted, which you chose to adopt and which a majority chose to adopt in exchange for so-called concrete guarantees. these concrete guarantees were that the council would pay its arrears and that everything would be fine. but yesterday and today the comedy is resumed, with the council saying 'no, we will not pay what we have to pay' and the commission saying 'we will be out of payment on 14 november'. i think that we are really not being taken care of, that the image of the european union is being portrayed in a completely deplorable way. let's face it, drawing on the contingency fund to fill the 2014 budget is a real hack. this tinkering, we'll have to pay for it eventually. there is no reason that this will solve the problem, since we will have to fill the hole that we have dug elsewhere. so i think that today, and my colleague bütikofer said it, the 2014 budget is lagging behind in a number of areas: research and development, rural development, the structural funds, migration policy, foreign policy, and this will not be easy to explain on the eve of the european elections. finally, as you can imagine, we continue to regret the huge sums allocated to the iter experimental reactor. these resources could be used to much greater effect. for all these reasons, my group will abstain on the budget. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue cardboard". we're still answering it. i agree with you, of course, that we must simplify the lives of smes. on the other hand, if you simplify their lives, but you cut their budgets for all things research, promotion and redeployment, it's a bit of a paradox. so i agree with you on facilitation, but i absolutely do not agree with you on all these cuts which are extremely damaging to smes specifically.
again there is a lack of money, and again no one in the european commission or in the traditional groups of this parliament is even thinking of reducing the budget and making the necessary savings. no, it is once again the member states, the taxpayers in the member states, who have to foot the bill. well, it is high time to de-fatten the eu and to tackle the excessive waste of money. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, but that we should be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. we must put an end to useless bodies such as the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions or our own diplomatic service. we must be better at detecting and tackling fraud involving eu funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is high time that the eu set an example.
i am a little out of breath, but that does not prevent me from saying that i think we are missing an opportunity here to deal seriously with the taxpayers' money. we all know that within the european institutions - and we are a kind of tax haven in our own right - there are drastic savings within all the european institutions, without any european citizen even noticing. i am thinking, for example, of abolishing institutions that have long since lost their usefulness. i am thinking of the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, which together save some 200 million euros a year. i am thinking of the general economy of taxpayers' money, which we do not do. nor in this parliament, and there are many examples: the house of european history, the fleets of cars, and the waste of money in european propaganda campaigns to lure voters to the polls. what should be here is a proposal from parliament to make big savings, another missed opportunity.
mr president, mr minister, i was very disappointed and misunderstood when i received the council's position on the 2014 budget in the summer. the political agreement reached by our heads of state in june on the mff - a disappointing mff overall - contained several positive elements which were not reflected in the council's position: the programme for the competitiveness of smes, horizon 2020, erasmus plus and the youth employment initiative. all these programmes were to have their expenditure for subsequent years anticipated. that is what the commission has proposed, and that is what the finance ministers have rejected, in complete contradiction to their heads of state. in this context, i am glad that parliament, in its proposal, restores the commission's amounts, and sometimes goes beyond them in the social field. the overall reduction in the european budget is already difficult to accept, so at least during the trilogue, respect the promises and announcements made in these areas, especially social ones, because these expenditures are indispensable for the future and the confidence of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i believe that the proposed regulation is based on a reasonable analysis, namely that it seeks to level the conditions governing imports of wines from the western balkans into the union market. i would like to stress that the allocation of a specific tariff quota for wine from kosovo would not lead to a general increase in the overall tariff quota allowed for imports of wines from the western balkans, but would simply affect its distribution, by correcting the allegedly unfavourable position of kosovo wine exporters. furthermore, it appears that the level of wine quotas granted to kosovo is set on the basis of the past marketing of that product and that, as this is the method traditionally used to determine the levels of the quotas, kosovo wine does not appear to be allocated disproportionately compared to the individual tariff quotas allocated for wine to the other western balkan countries under the stabilisation and association agreements or the interim agreements. the rapporteur therefore does not wish to amend the commission's proposal at this stage of the procedure.
in writing. kyrgyzstan has been through some difficult times in recent years. in 2009, the kyrgyz economy was hit by the international financial crisis and in june 2010 by ethnic violence. these events have disrupted economic activity, creating substantial needs in terms of public expenditure for reconstruction and social assistance, and have led to large budget deficits and external financing. given that kyrgyzstan is an important partner for the union in central asia and is on the way to becoming the first parliamentary democracy in the region, it is important that the union supports kyrgyzstan, including by helping it to complete the rule of law, and promote inter-ethnic reconciliation. however, many challenges remain, especially in terms of respect for human rights (e.g. gender-based violence, abduction of women for forced marriage, discrimination based on sexual orientation and the right to fair defence).
in writing. i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council granting macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. the commission proposal focuses heavily on product quality. however, experts and many international organizations, such as the council of europe, the oecd and the european society of human genetics, continue to assert that in many cases the context in which the product is applied is even more important than the quality of the product. in the case of dna testing in particular, it is very important to respect the principle of informed consent. the european parliament has also repeatedly called for this. a legal opinion concludes that it is possible and appropriate to introduce a corresponding text in the proposal. the rapporteur therefore proposes amendments on this point. there is a consensus that the european union should not seek to restrict access to dna testing for patients but that appropriate genetic counselling should be systematically offered to inform patients of the consequences of testing before it is carried out. in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, member states should be allowed to regulate the modalities and go beyond what is required by the regulation.
in writing. - today we voted on two regulations to improve the safety of medical devices. unfortunately, parliament has not opted for a model with one single control at european level for the most risky devices. the elaborate conformity procedure for risky devices that we have approved today is too complex and contains too many exceptions. if we really want to provide european patients with certainty and to avoid a situation like the pip scandal ever happening again, we must eventually move towards a central european assessment procedure before risky devices can be placed on the market. a second point i would like to stress is the importance of good rules on the use of genetic tests (dna tests). these tests are often of questionable quality, the interpretation of the result is not obvious, and the consequences can be far-reaching for the individual and his family. a genetic test with a predictive function is not something to be taken lightly. i am therefore glad that parliament has voted by a very large majority to make the necessary medical expert assistance before and after the test compulsory.
in writing. the commission proposes to close the gaps in the current legislation governing medical devices: strengthening the supervision of notified bodies to ensure conformity assessment; strengthening the control of producers by means of unannounced inspections; improving public information by extending the medical device database; the introduction of a unique identifier to improve traceability and reminders in case of security concerns. the rapporteur welcomes the commission's efforts, but regrets the excessive focus on the speed of marketing medical devices, to the detriment of patient safety. the aim of the dagmar roth-behrendt report is to strengthen the aspects of legislation affecting patient safety. to this end, it proposes the establishment of a centralised pre-marketing authorisation procedure for high-risk devices involving an eu-wide public health agency (pha), the strengthening of the qualification criteria for notified body staff and the presence of in-house expertise, and the strengthening of the criteria for multi-purpose devices based on eu-wide withdrawal standards.
in writing. the dismantling of ships is a particularly complex and highly controversial problem because of its serious environmental and social consequences and its economic importance. with a view to the ratification of the hong kong convention in 2020, i welcome the report by mr carl schlyter which outlines the outlines of stricter legislation including a system of sanctions for the recycling and dismantling of ships. the establishment of an eu list for installations inside and outside the eu helps to reduce adverse effects on the environment and human health and to reduce disparities between operators. these different standards will make it possible to stop social and environmental dumping and provide an international framework between flag states and recycling states.
in writing. ships are brought as close as possible to a high-tide beach and are usually moored on mud flats near the beach in the intertidal zone. they are cut vertically into very large pieces with no other help than torches and gravity, the pieces then falling onto the muddy folds. workers are exposed to high acute and chronic hazards, proper containment of hazardous materials is not possible and hazardous materials that are collected separately are not adequately treated. what we're seeing is capitalism in its most crude form. most of the remaining ship owners seek to maximise their profits by selling their vessels to sites that meet low or no standards of worker and environmental protection and are therefore able to offer the highest price. we are facing a clear market failure, due to 'extreme cost outsourcing' at the expense of workers' health and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to regulate the compilation and harmonisation of demographic data in the member states. the measures of that regulation include the creation of a common framework for the systematic production of european demographic statistics governing the collection, processing and transmission of demographic statistics and statistical data on marital status events.
in writing. i voted for this text. the current political and economic environment is threatening the sexual and reproductive health and rights of europeans. the financial crisis is pushing some eu countries to reduce the quality and availability of these services. in addition, very conservative and liberty-squatting positions on sexual rights are flourishing in europe. the european parliament is therefore voting today on the report on sexual and reproductive rights to raise awareness in the various member states of the unacceptable decline in women's rights. sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion, sexual education, family planning, contraception and sexual health should be self-evident. in some countries this is not the case, and in others it is gradually disappearing. we had to react because nothing will ever justify the trampling of women's rights!
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this report provides a comprehensive overview of the human rights challenges facing the sahel region. in particular, and i am pleased to see this, the report's reference to western sahara provides a rare opportunity to provide a detailed overview of human rights problems in that region. it shows that there is still a lot of shortage. the right to self-determination, the right to freedom of expression and the right to peaceful protest must be respected by the parties concerned. the commission and the member states should be more active in seeking a solution to the conflict in the region and use all available instruments to promote confidence between the parties. the eu should therefore increase its efforts, including in the mediation efforts of the un and other international actors, to strengthen the status of western sahara and to address the problem of impunity for moroccan troops. finally, it is necessary to regulate the exploitation of natural resources in the occupied territory as a matter of direct concern to the exercise of the right of self-determination of the saharawi people.
in writing. the sahel region is a powder keg. the many challenges it faces, whether food, security or economic, reinforce the alarming nature of the dire human rights situation in the region. it seems very difficult to envisage consolidating respect for these fundamental rights without going beyond the notion of daily survival, without unconditional access to education, without the possibility of living in dignity and without real social cohesion. it seems to me therefore essential to adopt a broader approach by establishing real governance, a just state that reconciles social organisation with individual freedoms, fairly redistributing the wealth created while defining equal rules for all. however, this cannot be achieved without a regional approach. all the countries concerned and the neighbouring countries must take responsibility and cooperate more closely for the development of the sahel. this is how i would like to welcome the major role played by the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. the sahel is one of the poorest regions in the world, facing serious human rights, rule of law, security and armed conflict problems, as well as serious economic and social development problems. the extreme poverty of this region is reflected in the united nations development indices for 2012. i therefore voted in favour of the tannock report because i too am concerned about the human rights situation in the sahel region, which is aggravated by multiple political, social, economic and ecological crises. i stress that closely intertwined challenges require an integrated and comprehensive political response and a political solution involving the different parties to the conflict.
in writing. considering development and human rights as central to our concerns and decision-making by all actors as the very basis of european policies, i welcome mrs cretu's report on the creation of a favourable environment for civil society and local authorities. these actors play an important role in facilitating dialogue and enabling the implementation of effective programmes for development and the promotion of human rights. they feed the democratic debate. they promote a participatory and inclusive approach.
in writing. i have followed my colleague mrs crețu in her conclusions. i encourage the commission to continue to support partnerships between local authorities in european countries and partner countries which have proved effective in capacity building and poverty reduction. i also encourage the exchange of knowledge between local authorities in the new and old member states on development cooperation practices to bridge the skills gap.
in writing. the commission's proposed 'rethinking education' strategy underlines the importance of setting up education and training systems for young people that respond to the specific needs of the labour market. education and training are key factors in stimulating growth, creating prosperity and deepening social cohesion in europe. we live in a modern world which demands great flexibility, knowledge of computer tools and a high level of qualification. the workers of tomorrow will need to be multi-skilled, innovative and multilingual. europe must support the actions of national governments to enable each european citizen to play a role in the world of tomorrow.
in writing. the guiding idea of this excellent report, besides identifying the main skills to be acquired and the main challenges for learners and people entering the labour market, is also to find solutions to preserve the conditions for their personal and economic independence. every human being has the right to education. if we want this to be a reality, we need to invest in quality and sustainable education. in addition, we must make use of all the complementary tools that will help to develop the conditions for personal development and well-being. this must be fully recognised at union and national level.
in writing. - this parliament will have to learn to respect the much-vaunted principle of subsidiarity in practice. education is strictly a matter for the member states or even the länder. i am certainly not against any form of harmonisation of qualifications and diplomas, but to give the european commission a kind of police power of control seems to me to be too much of a good thing. that is why i voted against paragraph 81 and, ultimately, against the whole report.
in writing. corruption in judicial systems is a real threat to democracy and economic development. it's important that everyone understands that no one is above the law. corruption undermines sustainable human development, causes investment to run out, and is a source of instability in government. this is why the issue of judicial reforms and anti-corruption standards must be a priority in the negotiations for the accession of new members to the european union. it is crucial that candidate countries make firm commitments and assume their responsibilities if they want to join the eu. fighting such phenomena means guaranteeing the freedoms and fairness of our european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. i also regret that ipa i funding seems limited in relation to the importance of these issues. however, it should be noted that the absorption capacity of the ipa-i is low in the rule of law component in some candidate and potential candidate countries. it is essential to improve the management of pre-accession financing of this strand under ipa ii. it should also be emphasised that progress in achieving and implementing specific objectives based on an independent and effective judiciary, the rule of law and the fight against corruption is monitored and assessed using quantitative and qualitative indicators. it is appropriate to provide for an incentive scheme under ipa ii to reward performance linked to significant progress towards the relevant objectives referred to in the strategy papers.
in writing. an average of 5% of hospitalized patients are affected by care-associated infections (cas). in other words, 37 000 people a year die directly from such infections in the european union. this is one of the commission's major concerns. in 2008, the commissioner for health, ms vassiliou, already stated that "patient safety is the cornerstone of good quality healthcare". since then, we've gone from 12 percent in 2008 to 5 percent of patients with ibs. it's still way too much. i strongly hope that patient safety, including the prevention and control of ibs, will be placed high on the political agenda of the european union.
in writing. access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a quality healthcare system. it is also a recognised fundamental right, to which the european union, its institutions and european citizens are committed. therefore, patients are entitled to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. i voted in favour of this text. indeed, the health sector is a high-risk area in that adverse events related to care (not the medical problem being treated) can result in serious injury, complications or suffering, or even death, to patients in care. while some adverse events are related to the inherent risks of necessary interventions or medicines, others are caused by medical errors and by deficiencies or failures in the care chain that could be avoided.
in writing. financial losses due to deceptive trading practices in the eu are little known. analysis of some national statistical data shows that these practices cover a market worth several billion euros a year. it is essential to tackle this problem head on, especially in these times of economic crisis, because the first victims are not only the most vulnerable consumers, but also smes and micro-enterprises (essential drivers of growth in europe). these practices create serious market dysfunctions by preventing firms from making informed and therefore effective choices. an effective solution is to severely punish any person or organisation that engages in such practices, but also to adopt a preventive approach and a coherent jurisdiction across the eu.
in writing. the european parliament voted today by an overwhelming majority in favour of the de jong report on misleading marketing practices. examples of misleading marketing practices are numerous: fraudulent payment forms, abuse of internet domain names, false offers to protect the trade mark in other countries when this can only be done through official bodies, etc. this report aims to identify the most common forms of misleading advertising practices in commercial communications, both business-to-business and business-to-consumer. the report goes beyond the european commission's proposal in that it proposes additional measures for prevention and information, enforcement and prosecution, and also calls for more international cooperation. the system of information exchange between member states will be improved and a blacklist of misleading advertising practices and the companies that commit them will be drawn up. it is also proposed to increase the capacity and expertise of the legal and investigative services involved and to impose effective penalties and compensation. i therefore voted in favour of the report in its entirety, because i believe it is important that these criminal practices should be tackled and punished at european level, but even better at international level.
in writing. deceptive business practices can take many forms, the most common being directory publishers, where a dishonest company sends forms to businesses asking them to complete or update their company name and contact details, ostensibly for free. but the signatories later discover that they have, in fact, unknowingly entered into a contract obliging them, usually for a minimum period of three years, to be listed in a professional directory for an annual fee of about 1,000 euros. other deceptive commercial practices include misleading payment forms, in the form of invoices for services that are allegedly ordered by the trader when they are not, offers to extend domain names on the internet by means of which a dishonest trader provides false information and exerts psychological pressure to conclude a contract at a price far higher than that at which registration could have been obtained from official providers, and offers to extend the protection of trademarks registered in other countries, whereas such protection can only be granted by official bodies.
i think the message of this report is well and truly stated: that organized crime today is a professional multibillion dollar business that causes a great deal of human and economic damage. it is therefore clear that we urgently need to accelerate police and judicial cooperation. i think that no one in the european union today can remain deaf to the concrete recommendations contained in this report, in this resolution by mr iacolino. we must in particular work - as stated in paragraph 125 of the final recommendations - to establish a european public prosecutor's office with the necessary resources to tackle this transnational crime; we must also ensure that social and fiscal controls are effective, that inspections are carried out and that there is cooperation between national services. it is well known - and has been said here - that organised crime is able to exploit the benefits of the internal market in an efficient way and we as the european union must find a strong response to this. the commissioner, therefore, must put this issue at the top of the agenda of one of the next summits of heads of state or government, in order to ensure political support at the highest level. finally, commissioner, criminal practices are also increasingly taking place on the internet, especially in the area of the gambling industry in the context of sports matches, with the intention of laundering criminal money. that is a major threat to the integrity of our most important sport in europe. we have already raised this matter in the context of mr fox's report. so here too, strong cross-border cooperation and rapid exchange of information are essential.
i think the central question here is how seriously the council is taking the nomination of candidates for the court of auditors. there is apparently, as the reply shows, a non-aggression pact between member states. the person nominated by a member state shall be appointed. it is not enough, mr president-in-office, to say: "we only have to comply with article 286 of the treaty on european union". the man or woman who is appointed and becomes a member of the court of auditors must cooperate with the european parliament. the court of auditors is the institution par excellence, a working instrument for us and a source of information for our anti-fraud work, to ensure that the 140 billion euros per year that the taxpayer collects is spent properly. for that we need a well-functioning court of auditors. and if candidates are then put forward, such as the croatian candidate, who simply comes to us and lies and promises us that he will not be a candidate if he does not have the support of parliament, and then is appointed and does not keep his promise, then there is a breach of trust. i think the council should ensure that such a breach of trust cannot occur. you also have a responsibility towards the european citizen, towards the taxpayer, to ensure that people are appointed who show sufficient integrity, who are truly worthy of their office. and you, the council of 28 member states, are seriously lacking in that!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i have nothing against dany's proposal, it seems to me an excellent idea to have an additional session in strasbourg or brussels... except that i hear in the corridors that the two major groups already want to discuss today and tomorrow. my proposal has three elements. first of all, i ask that there be a debate on thursday with a round of speeches by the various groups, because there is no question of voting on the budget, just like that, without a debate in plenary: there was a debate in committee, so it is normal that there should also be a debate on these amending budgets in plenary. secondly, i ask the lithuanian presidency to confirm to us today or tomorrow, thursday at the latest, that amending budget no 8 of 3.9 billion is accepted and prepared by the council and that it will be tabled in parliament in the coming hours and days. it is not difficult, mr president-in-office, to speak now and tell us that the council will indeed table amending budget no 8 of 3.9 billion. if you cannot tell us that now, at this hour, it means that there is a hole in the rock, that there is a whole strategy behind it to make us swallow draft amending budget no 6 without the slightest intention of presenting us with amending budget no 8 of 3.9 billion and getting it approved. so my request is very clear: if we want to discuss this tomorrow, i want to hear from the council before tomorrow that the 3.9 billion will be presented to parliament. if the council is not able to do that, i think it would be better not to vote on any amending budget, since that would mean that we would start the period 2014-2020 with a deficit of several billion euros and that we cannot accept. so, madam president, perhaps you can give the floor to the president of the council now, so that he can tell us what the council's intention is, because this little game with the amending budgets has gone on long enough.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have used, mr president of the council, a written procedure for draft amending budget no 6. why is it not possible to use a written procedure for draft amending budget no 8? it is as simple as that. you were capable of organising a written procedure to put before parliament for dab 6 within a few hours, but this is not possible for dab 8. what is the problem?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to continue on a point made by mr daul, because i thought he made an important intervention. it would be better if the staff of the epp never prepared your speeches again. i think it is far better like that, joseph. you get straight to the point. what he said is very important, and maybe, mr callanan, you need to hear it in english too, because that is the reality. the reality is that a number of member states, and especially britain, do not want to pay their commitments in 2013. by not giving in on this draft amending budget no 8 of eur 3.9 billion now, we push it back to the 30th in the council and until the 15th or 20th in parliament, and they can push it to 2014. that is what is happening in reality. at the same time, these political forces are urging us to approve the mff – the multiannual financial framework. they cannot deliver their commitments and ensure that there is no deficit at the beginning of 2014. i think, mr daul, that you are totally right, and that it is important that we see on thursday what is happening, because we have to stop this cynical little game being played by a number of member states which are officially in favour of the mff but are in fact doing everything not to fulfil their commitments and to start with a deficit. my second point is about the intervention made by hannes swoboda. i want to tell you that my first european council was in 1999. it was in tampere, in the north of finland, olli, where the reindeer live. that was the summit on migration policy. the tampere summit in 1999, under the presidency of finland, decided finally to develop a common migration policy in the european union. it is 15 years since we took that decision to have a common migration policy. here we are now, a few hours before the start of the european council, with what mr swoboda has rightly described as shame for the european union. we have one paragraph to say ‘okay, we will start a migration policy and we will have some ideas in june 2014’. this is even less than what we discussed 15 years ago in tampere in finland at the european council of 1999. what i am asking is that we develop a policy, and that the commission also comes forward with a policy, based on three pillars. this is what we urgently need. the first is that we give more money and more instruments to our european institutions, to frontex and to eurosur, so that we can avoid the tragedies that we have seen in lampedusa. the only way to do this is by giving money to frontex, and not just eur 90 million. today that is the whole frontex budget: eur 90 million. frontex has to do its job across the whole of the mediterranean sea and prevent the tragedies that we have seen in lampedusa. the first thing to do is to provide more funding for frontex and more funding for eurosur as rapidly as possible. the second thing is that we have to be honest with our citizens. we have to start with a policy of legal economic migration in the european union. what we are doing makes no sense. a number of countries urgently need migrants. germany, for example, will need four million migrants in the next 10 to 15 years if they want to maintain their economic record and their economic results of today. i think a policy of legal migration is necessary, the same way that the us, canada and australia have a policy of legal migration. it is the only way to avoid and eliminate illegal migration and human trafficking such as we have today. my third point is that we also need a policy towards north africa, which is where these migrants are coming from. we have not given one euro more to these countries since the arab spring. we have simply repackaged the money that was already in the budget. my last point, mr barroso, is on the banking union. in my opinion, there is only one priority for this summit, instead of this long list of topics. when there are too many points on the agenda, you decide nothing at all. it is better to have one point on the agenda. it could be the banking union. why not a political agreement, so that the council agrees with the commission proposal? that is my proposal. my proposal continues to be that council and parliament should start the negotiations immediately. why is it necessary for us to adopt the position paper and lose months? why is it necessary for the council to lose months in negotiations and in debates? the commission proposal is a good one. that is what we need, and we need it urgently. every day the banking union is not in place means a loss of initiative and investment in the real economy. that is the problem: it is not all the money that we will find on the right or the left, the problem is that the transfer of money from the banks to the real economy is blocked today, and only banking union – a european solution – can solve the problem. (applause)
the social dimension of emu is in danger of becoming a weakness. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european commission wants to tackle this by developing a social scoreboard. this is very thin. the crucial question is not who scores well or poorly, but what actions we are going to take to shape social policy in the union. in addition, a number of relevant indicators are missing from the scoreboard: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, child poverty, unemployment amongst those aged over 50 or amongst women. i see only one bright spot, and that is that the european commission has finally realised that europe is more than an economic union and that the social dimension has finally been put on the agenda. but to really strengthen the social dimension of emu, common social objectives and the introduction of minimum social standards, in balance with the eu's economic objectives, are needed. only then will european policy find a new base of support among the people.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. we have had difficult debates, but we have been able to produce a report that is worth seeing. as has just been said, we are currently experiencing a slight and very fragile economic recovery. i think that this is partly due to the steps taken at european level, namely the steps to force countries to maintain budgetary discipline, to clean up their balance sheets and also to work on the necessary structural reforms. so this european semester has already done its work for a while. i think, however, that in the fragile economic situation we are in today we should certainly not hesitate to go further. we will have to commit ourselves once again - and the commission has just said this - to this banking union. i think that in order to restore confidence, it is crucial that we work on that banking union, on a resolution fund and on cleaning up the balance sheets of those banks to allow room for reinvestment. i think it is also necessary, and i am addressing this to the council, that each government, each country, takes responsibility and shows ownership of the recommendations they are co-appropriating. it is not possible that some recommendations are adopted here and then, a few hours later, they are rejected in their own country. we must also dare to show ownership of what we agree on at european level. this is necessary to maintain monetary union, to generate economic growth and ultimately to get back on track with job creation and new industry. i would like to say, as a final point, that i think it is very important that an element of democratisation is also brought into this debate, including by the commission, that we look at how we can reinforce the community method and how we can bring all the intergovernmental aspects of this story that we have been building together over the past months and years back under the umbrella of the european community method. it is therefore very important that we maintain this and that we continue to cherish this european fact. i think it is also important for next year, because we are now entering again in a cycle of countries having to submit budgets, countries which will receive specific recommendations; we must be detailed and clear in the recommendations we make to countries. it is very important, also for those governments, that they receive clear support from europe for the sometimes difficult reforms they have to carry out. i have been appointed rapporteur for the next cycle of the semester and i look forward to continuing to work with each of you, including the commission and the council. but i think we really have to continue on the road we have taken and hopefully we will have a stronger economic recovery next year than we have today.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, you have been telling us for several semesters now that you are very concerned about social problems, even as vice-president for economic and monetary affairs. i would simply like to remind you that a quarter of europeans - a quarter, one in four, 25 per cent - are at or below the poverty or social exclusion threshold, which is a colossal figure and has increased by roughly one per cent per year, that is to say 5 million more europeans per year at the poverty and social exclusion threshold. so my question is very simple: you say to me 'the semester has a social dimension and it is mainly the employment dimension'. i would like to say that although employment is now absolutely essential for integration, it is no longer a guarantee of a decent life. in germany, we have seven million working poor. germany is the champion of employment in europe, and yet 22% of its population is at the poverty line or social exclusion. this means that employment alone is not enough, and that a strategy of 'employment at any cost' cannot solve the problem of inequality on its own. i would therefore really encourage you to make the annual growth review in november and the next european semester much more geared to reducing inequalities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the budgetary and socioeconomic policy framework we have developed in recent years is impressive. but everything can be improved, and that includes the implementation of the country-specific agreements which are the subject of this report. the pain points in the various member states have been exposed, but too little is being done with the indications. more is needed to strengthen the prille recovery. this is no time to rest on our laurels. one of the remedies for these still weak results can be found by creating in the member states a greater support for the country-specific recommendations, and this can be done by: 1) to make it clear to everyone that the member states have committed themselves, both in the six-pack and the two-pack and in europe 2020, on the one hand, and also in the formulation of the country-specific agreements, on the other. the commission has also proposed that the social dimension of economic and monetary union be made more explicit and that, where possible, consultation with the social partners be improved. the status of the recommendations must also be made clearer to everyone. they are not free, but they are not free either. they do set objectives, but they leave a margin of manoeuvre for the member states in terms of instruments, methods and implementation. president, ladies and gentlemen, at least those of you who can still hear me: what we also need is a change of mindset. member states too often see these annual recommendations as criticism, when they are intended to help them do the right thing, in the interests of the union as a whole, but also in the interests of their own people in the member state in particular. let us continue to move in the right direction and become stronger together to move towards more growth and good jobs in a sustainable way.
mr. schlyter, would you like to raise a point of order?
there were some technical problems, but that will be taken into account in the voting.
you're right, and it will be implemented by the services tomorrow at 8:30.
the agenda calls for voting time. i ask you, colleagues, to be efficient. there are a lot of votes. with discipline, we can move forward quickly.
i'm putting these technical modifications to the vote. it's been adopted.
we understand that you find these descriptions a little bit long, but we're moving on.
this is the procedure for each case. we're moving on. - after the vote.
we're taking note of your request. - after the vote on amendment no 193:
madam president, i think there's been a mix-up. you had the vote on amendment 68 verified. i believe it said 32 on the screen. so we have to vote on 68.
this closes the voting.
in writing. the fight against drugs and drug trafficking is a global challenge. the fragile states are the eldorados not only of drugs but also of the trafficking of immigrants and small arms, before they reach europe. drugs ruin the lives of individuals and have a high cost to societies. the monitoring of trade in precursors, which are legal substances used to synthesise drugs, is therefore a crucial issue in this fight. we need to act quickly and in the long term because the sector is changing rapidly. that is why i welcome mr proust's report, which strengthens the control of these substances by creating a new category to be monitored, namely medicines. this surveillance must not, however, impede the trade in medicines which is vital for developing populations. we will achieve our objectives more effectively and more quickly if we strengthen our cooperation and control mechanisms in this area and if the european database of precursors is updated regularly.
in writing. i voted for this text. i think that medicines should be included in the definition of scheduled substances and that a new category of substances should be created which makes it possible to further clarify the controls to be applied to scheduled substances. the annexes will be adapted by means of delegated acts, which will allow the council to veto, if necessary, a decision by the commission to add a new medicinal product. furthermore, the definition of scheduled substances clearly states that the precursor must be readily extractable from the mixture in order to be considered a scheduled substance. the rapporteur believes that this should very much limit the number of medicines that could one day be considered as classified substances and thus limit the impact of the regulation on the trade in medicines. at present, only medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine fulfil this requirement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it should be noted that drug precursors are chemical substances which are used in a wide range of industrial processes (plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes, detergents, etc.) but which can also be diverted for the illicit production of narcotics. they are rarely manufactured by traffickers for illicit use, as this requires a large infrastructure. as a result, they are often the target of attempts to divert them from legitimate business channels, either by theft or by buying them back. this is why the regulatory framework in place provides for a system of authorisations and registrations of drug precursors. the scheme controls trade in these substances within the european union by imposing specific obligations on the companies concerned (anti-theft, customer verification, detection of suspicious transactions) and on the public authorities (administrative procedures and visits to companies). the level of control varies according to the product category.
in writing. considering the european union as an area of freedom, security and justice where the right to free movement is considered fundamental, i welcome the resolution on the action plan on online justice. this is not only a step forward for citizens, but also for businesses. freedom, security and justice are at the heart of our parliamentary work and i encourage all member states to move forward on the path of justice. this progress will show the strengthening of european cohesion, the building of a judicial area and the realisation of the area of justice, security and freedom.
in writing. e-justice has a major role to play in enhancing mutual trust and understanding, and thus in supporting the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, which is a major principle of the european legal system. it should be stressed that e-justice systems, by their very nature, contribute to reducing the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular through the automation of the exchange of information, the distribution of official documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. all of this serves the interests of all stakeholders in the justice system.
mr president, we need a common foreign and security policy more than ever. indeed, the world today is in a kind of transition between a bipolar world and a world that we would like to be multipolar, but the transition is not complete. this explains why countries we once considered allies in a bipolar world sometimes go off the rails. i am thinking in particular of the role played by saudi arabia and qatar in destabilising the arab spring and certainly syria, going so far as to finance terrorist groups. and it is because we need a bipolar world that we need a common foreign policy today and a europe that is strong in this area. we must weigh in with one voice, autonomously, on the international balance, or it will be weakened. i agree with what mr danjean has just said. to weigh well, we need a strategy that is visible and legible. we need to prioritize. we cannot do everything, but we must act where it is most effective. as such, i fully agree with the line taken by mr brok in his report. and of course, mrs ashton, why do you take responsibility for the failures that we sometimes experience in a world that is going through such turbulence and such cataclysm, in a world that is going through such revolutions? if we haven't succeeded in everything, it's certainly not your fault. there is one sentence in your report, however, mr brok, which i do not agree with: when you say that mrs ashton must be the 'animator' of foreign policy: i have more ambition for the post of high representative! i would like to congratulate you on what you have done in the horn of africa, on what you have done in somalia, on your action in serbia and kosovo, on what we have been able to avoid there. i think that we do not appreciate enough the importance of europe in this respect. i would like to return to what are not failures on our part, but rather some kind of catastrophes, some kind of humanitarian genocides. i mean syria and the middle east. in syria, we have not yet succeeded in stopping the massacres. you said, "we need to find ways to feed geneva 2 from the inside and the outside". i think you're absolutely right. and to embrace what mr. provera said, i think we should not hesitate to have boldness in measured and careful research of collaboration at another level. i'm thinking of iran. yes, mr provera, we know the human rights situation in iran and you are right. but if we succeed in the nuclear negotiations, if we succeed in having a nuclear-free middle east, iran can be a partner for regional stability, for afghanistan, for the question of syria and against terrorism which today has penetrated these regions. (the president cut the speaker off)
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the strategy for the carpathian region (2013/2896 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2013 (14870/2013 c7-0378/2013 2013/2151 ((bud)) (a7-0347/2013).
we take note of your remarks, mrs alfano. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. first of all, i am pleased that the european parliament has obtained a flexibility clause allowing the unused sum to be carried over to the next annual budget or from one heading to another. this flexibility will allow the european union to better tailor its spending to european needs. however, i can only regret the refusal of the member states to increase the share of resources allocated. challenges are mounting as europeans gradually emerge from the crisis. balanced stimulus policies are therefore essential to regain the path to growth. this recovery will not take place without major contributions from the european level. how can we invest in the future without the right resources? the european budget represents only 1% of european gdp. by comparison, the us federal government has more than 30% of us gdp. the reluctance of national governments and the perilous negotiations between the european parliament and the member states underline the limitations of the present system. without a real budget and own resources, the european union will be unable to respond adequately to the expectations of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this budget. in particular, i would like to say that, as regards agriculture, the necessary measures to manage the volume of commitments still to be settled are essential for the new 2014-2020 programming period to start under good conditions, in particular in view of the reduction in payment appropriations for rural development provided for in the 2014 operational programme. i note that although there is a 0.3% increase in 2014 in the appropriations for direct payments and market measures under the european agricultural guarantee fund, both for commitments and for payments, compared to 2013, the commission must describe in detail the practical measures needed to meet the increased needs linked to the gradual introduction of direct payments among the twelve and the creation of the fund for agricultural crises. however, i regret the implementation of the 'financial discipline' mechanism, which will lead to a large number of farmers in the union suffering a reduction of almost 5% in direct payments for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. - i am particularly disgusted by the way this parliament is demanding more money for the european institutions year after year. what was unacceptable before the crisis is even more so today. our supranational institutions are veritable tax havens, manned by european mandarins who do not apply to themselves the rules they impose on others. in all the european institutions, taxpayers' money is being thrown out the window. royal salaries, exorbitant expense allowances, useless prestige projects, campaigns that nobody understands and that are not needed for anything. we should be ashamed to even propose such a budget.
in writing. following the proposal of the committee on the marine environment, the neves report put forward the mapping of the marine environment for the benefit of fisheries. it is an essential instrument if the fisheries sector is to be made sustainable, profitable and environmentally friendly. it is therefore important to use and exploit data collection through exchange. many private and public organisations have fisheries data which should be included in these maps through compatibility and interoperability mechanisms. it is therefore crucial to foster coordination and cooperation within the union. however, care will have to be taken to ensure that the confidentiality of this data and the protection of commercial interests are guaranteed.
in writing. in august 2012, the european commission presented a green paper entitled 'marines knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecasting', which is integrated into the promotion, development and expansion of the 'blue economy'. it serves the objectives of the 'europe 2020 strategy' as regards the sea, by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to this end, it is planned to develop a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european seabed by 2020. this is an ambitious, large-scale and multidisciplinary project, which aims to disseminate information to a multitude of stakeholders interested in ocean data at the level of public bodies, industry, education and research, and civil society. this digital map covers a variety of areas, including information on topography, geology, habitats and ecosystems of the seabed and human activities. it provides data on the physical, chemical and biological parameters of the water column above and makes oceanographic forecasts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the european union currently has no horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto agreement and other international trade agreements. in a world where retaliation is on the rise, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to strengthen the enforcement of the union's trade rights, to establish its credibility and, ultimately, to convince our trading partners to respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. the proposal under consideration is also part of a strategy to widen the union's markets and aligns the decision-making process with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the commission justifies its proposal for cfp reform by claiming that the european fishing fleet is overcapacity. this is very questionable: the commission does not define this notion of overcapacity, so that any overcapacity is difficult to establish. i therefore note that the commission proposes to catch the same amount of fish with fewer vessels, thus endangering many fishing enterprises, particularly small-scale or coastal ones, and thus many jobs. we are opposed to this approach and want strict control of fishing activity to lead to sustainable management from an environmental and social point of view. i would remind you of the obligation on member states to respect the capacity ceilings for their fleets laid down in the basic regulation. to strengthen this obligation, i propose that member states indicate in their emff operational programme the measures they are implementing to comply with these ceilings under this regulation.
in writing. the warsaw conference next month is crucial to prepare for the paris summit in 2015 where for the first time all countries, even the most polluting, will be linked to a universal climate agreement. it is necessary and crucial that we prepare a roadmap and a timetable of commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we need a global framework from the negotiations, we cannot afford another failure like the one in copenhagen. the warsaw conference and the paris summit also have an economic issue. today, our energy bill is €400 billion a year. we must break out of this dependence and this requires innovative policy and new technologies that will foster and create jobs in order to solve our problems. we must set an example and impose sanctions on those who do not respect their commitments.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on the framework for the un climate summit in warsaw in november. these negotiations should set the stage for a binding climate agreement in 2015 in which all countries agree on their co2 emissions. the european parliament today set out the minimum european commitment for next month's negotiations. i voted for this resolution. parliament called on the commission and the council to set the eu as an example. the report sets out the link between europe's leadership role in international negotiations and europe's own climate policy. the negotiations are now entering a crucial phase with a view to reaching an agreement in 2015. europe must take a leading role in the negotiations and commit itself to ambitious objectives. the report stresses the urgent need for co2 reduction to limit global warming to 2 degrees and the importance of energy saving and renewable energy. the greens in the european parliament would have liked to have included suggestions for ambitious targets for 2030 and 2050 in the resolution, but unfortunately these proposals have not succeeded. nevertheless, this resolution proposes a good framework for the next round of climate negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. there is an urgent need to raise ambition by 2020 to reach the 2°c target. i would particularly stress the need to achieve results as a matter of urgency in closing the considerable gap between scientific findings and the parties' current commitments. the important role of other measures, including energy efficiency and the phasing-out of hfcs, in helping to bridge this colossal gap should be highlighted.
in writing. the transnational challenges of corruption, money laundering and organised crime are morally and economically unacceptable. these challenges hamper the proper functioning of the market and harm competition. strict, targeted and effective rules are needed to avoid impunity for such criminals. however, this legislative framework should not be established at national level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are uniform throughout the community. the union must therefore be equipped with genuinely powerful tools to fight this problem more effectively. in addition, the european union must also strengthen its role as coordinator. the report calls on the european commission to take stock of the situation in europe and make recommendations based on a best practice approach, addressed both to the member states and to the european institutions. the efforts made by the latter to ensure greater transparency in their administration, in particular by guaranteeing a right of access to documents, can be seen as exemplary. the fight against tax havens and the opacity of financial institutions must also be intensified.
in writing. we have sought to suggest a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to economically target organised crime and strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. the report aims, among other things, to promote a more flexible and therefore less corruptible public administration, a more responsible politics, a faster and more credible criminal justice system, healthier businesses, a more transparent banking system and business world, and timely anti-money laundering measures to prevent crime from remaining a lucrative activity that harms the legal economy, entrepreneurs and honest citizens. new technologies and the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, in particular with regard to the establishment and launch of a european public prosecutor's office, should help to achieve the objectives of this report.
in writing. the european neighbourhood policy establishes a special relationship between the european union and its neighbouring countries. we must see the neighbouring countries as genuine equal partners. the economic, trade, security and political successes of the enp benefit europeans and third countries alike. enhanced cooperation between neighbouring states and the european union makes it possible to respond concretely and more effectively to a set of transnational challenges that we all face. however, i prefer the need to establish, within this regional concept, individualized relations in order to ensure an optimal benefit for each party.
in writing. i believe that the european parliament should be fully involved in the implementation of the new enp and in the adjustment of european financial assistance, including through delegated acts, and should be kept regularly informed of the progress of reforms in partner countries and the resulting adjustments. i regret that he is not systematically consulted on the preparation of action plans and is not informed of the content of the discussions. i consider its resolutions to be an integral part of the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and i ask that meps be granted observer status so that they can take part in the meetings of the subcommittees on political affairs and human rights.
in writing. the european semester is a new six-month cycle in the coordination of economic policies in the eu. as part of the economic governance package (the 'six-pack'), it aims to strengthen the coordination of economic policies in countries by providing ex ante advice. we must continue to intensify our efforts to support growth but without neglecting fiscal consolidation. without growth, europe loses all credibility, without solidarity, it loses all legitimacy. as jacques delors said, we must combine 'competition which stimulates, cooperation which strengthens and solidarity which unites'.
in writing. i would like to remind you that the full potential of the services sector in terms of economy and employment remains untapped. i call for the full and proper implementation of the european services directive, while preserving the public service obligations that guarantee universal access to quality and affordable services for all. it is also worth recalling that some member states must invest in quality social services. wage and social standards must be respected. member states must remove barriers in the retail trade sector and excessive restrictions on professional services and regulated professions.
in writing. - the successive tragic events in lampedusa and elsewhere in the mediterranean are forcing us to accelerate. we can and must now tackle the criminal networks of human trafficking much more efficiently by launching eurosur quickly; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the refugees are not sent to the camps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. with the reformed european asylum policy we now have a common framework for a correct and solidary approach. but many member states have yet to put the agreements into practice. and of course, we must also continue to tackle the causes of this migration. people are desperate and risking their lives to get out of their country, which is plagued by dictatorship, poverty and war. let us put this at the top of the agenda of the next eu summit and launch a new initiative that is a sign of hope, especially for the horn of africa.
in writing. tragedy is piling up. the number of casualties is growing. the european parliament, which could not remain indifferent, adopted a resolution in this connection, calling in particular on the member states to respect their commitments and to show greater solidarity and responsibility in dealing with the problem of managing the migration flow in the mediterranean. europeans now have a set of effective tools to respond appropriately to this type of human tragedy. but we need to use them better. i also call on the member states to introduce more stringent and systematic sanctions against smugglers who have developed a genuinely lucrative illegal trade out of the misery of the weakest. however, the management of the migration flow in the mediterranean is not done alone. it requires a global and international approach to forging privileged relations between the european union and its neighbouring countries. in this context, we must increase our humanitarian, social, political and economic assistance to these countries of origin. the cigem in mali is a good example of this. finally, i would like to stress the need to guarantee systematically and unconditionally the respect of the fundamental rights of survivors.
in writing. the human tragedy of lampedusa is still in the minds of all. 300 people died on a makeshift boat trying to reach europe by clandestine means. a week later, another shipwreck claimed 34 lives. according to the international organization for migration, 20,000 migrants have lost their lives in the mediterranean in the last 10 years. it is urgent that the whole of europe adopt a coordinated strategy on immigration. two weeks ago, mps voted to strengthen border security and tackle illegal immigration. the european parliament adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean this afternoon. the text, which i supported, also rightly calls for tackling the causes of migration. it is obviously by addressing the root causes of the problem that we can dissuade migrants from attempting a dangerous adventure that is too often deadly. we must neutralize the heads of networks and work on coordination with the countries of origin. the member states will then meet tomorrow for a european summit on migration. let us hope that words are followed by strong actions. cooperation and solidarity will be the keywords for a more humane and effective immigration policy.
in writing. the tragic events of the past few weeks must be a turning point and an incentive for europe to avoid a repetition of them by adopting a coordinated approach based on solidarity and responsibility. these initiatives should take the following forms: 1) full compliance with international obligations for rescue at sea, accompanied by a rapid agreement on the introduction of new interception rules for operations coordinated by frontex; 2) promotion of existing and new migration channels; 3) effective access to asylum procedures; (4) deepening cooperation with third countries, under precise and predefined conditions relating to their fundamental rights obligations; (5) strengthening solidarity within the union, to reduce the pressure on the member states most affected. in these circumstances, it is high time that everyone shoulders his or her responsibilities in order to put in place a comprehensive eu migration policy and avoid a repetition of the tragedies of the past few weeks.
in writing. - the tragic events near lampedusa cannot leave anyone indifferent. the victims are first and foremost victims of human traffickers who should not be rewarded by an even more lax immigration policy, on the contrary. the only way to combat this trafficking in human beings is a particularly strict policy of return to the countries or continents of origin, where only the exceptions confirm the rule. it goes without saying that europe should help those regions with food and shelter. the fact that we are not able to absorb all the misery of the whole world in our own countries - always at the expense of the least well-off - is equally true. it's too easy to play santa claus with taxpayers' money and other people's living conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of temporarily suspending the eu-us terrorist financing tracking programme (tftp) agreement following the release of documents showing that the us national surveillance agency had illegally accessed the swift database, thereby breaching the personal data, in this case the banking data, of our fellow citizens. this is a serious breach of the agreement and undermines the eu's credibility. this breach of the agreement undermines respect for fundamental rights, in particular the obligations relating to the protection of privacy and the protection of personal data. we have a responsibility to the european citizen.
in writing. as long as the united states considers that all europeans are terrorists and that it is legitimate to invade their privacy by violating individual freedoms, we demand the suspension of the agreements. spying and mutual trust are not possible. there is a legitimate fear that european companies are being monitored for economic intelligence purposes, that opinion leaders or ordinary citizens are being tracked by methods supposedly reserved for hunting down terrorists: this is intolerable! trust is broken the moment the person you're supposed to be with spies on you. the legitimacy of the pnr agreements and the climate of the negotiations for the trade agreement between europe and the united states are certainly deteriorating. parliament's position in favour of a suspension of the agreements is constructive. we want to restore trust so that we can resume transatlantic cooperation. respect for the rights of european citizens and european businesses is a precondition for any agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr la via on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2013: revision of the estimates for gni and vat and gni bases, budgetisation of uk corrections and revision of gni cuts for the netherlands and sweden other revenue from the fine imposed on microsoft creation of the union trust funds. the council should be reminded of the artificial under-budgeting of previous years which it defended, and it should be pointed out in this connection that the total annual budgets for the period 2007-2013 are eur 60 billion below the overall agreed ceiling for payments under the cfp for the period 2007-2013 and that a cumulated surplus of eur 12 billion for the period 2007-2013 has been de facto transferred to the member states by reducing their cumulated gni contributions by that amount!
in writing. environmental concern is a matter of responsibility for the union, for third countries, but also and above all for the individual. i voted for the text. the environment must put the european citizen at the heart of the problem. educating, informing and training them, strengthening their involvement in everyday life, promoting their citizenship and their access to justice in environmental matters - these are the objectives that the new european programme must also pursue. so what better opportunity than 2013 - the european year of citizenship - to develop environmental citizenship in the union?
in writing. exposure to ionising radiation can have beneficial effects when controlled (e.g. medicine, research, agriculture, etc.) but can also be harmful. the uses of ionising radiation can thus involve health risks if misused or confined. measures were therefore needed to protect the health of those exposed to it. i therefore welcome the ulmer report, which contains major improvements on this matter. in order to ensure effective protection, member states will now have to harmonise their legislation in this area. there was a need for procedures that were simple and easy to understand and implement.
in writing. one of the aims of the revision is to eliminate inconsistencies between the different legislative acts. i think that the proposal has largely achieved this, so that only a few amendments are necessary. many of the radiation protection aspects covered by the 'basic standards' directive are working very well in practice, which also shows that little change is needed.
in writing. despite the progress made by the european union in the field of the common foreign and security policy, the union still faces many shortcomings. the brok report proposes a clear and decisive strategy that will enable the eu, as an international actor, to improve its efficiency and credibility. the european union's foreign policy is based not only on its political and economic interests but also on fundamental values and principles which define its highly normative identity. citizens' support for foreign policy will only increase its effectiveness. the european parliament's control of the cfsp is therefore crucial. coordination and cooperation of international actions and the strengthening of the role of the high representative are essential for the unity and credibility of eu action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this annual report, which takes stock of the european union's external action in different thematic and geographical areas. it underlines parliament's position on the key issues facing the union in the field of external policy. the s&d group has consistently supported a comprehensive approach to the union's foreign policy. it must be conducted for the benefit of all european citizens, rooted in core european values and supported by constructive cooperation with our strategic partners. given the volatility of the international landscape, the european union needs a coherent foreign policy internally and externally. only by making full use of the institutional tools provided by the treaty of lisbon, foremost among them the european external action service (eeas) and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, can the union assume its responsibilities and play its role effectively on the world stage.
in writing. digital will provide the growth and jobs of tomorrow. however, if the european union is to benefit from it, it must prepare for it. this sector is linked to all other markets and must therefore be subject to the same rules. the unification of the 28 national markets must therefore be the european priority today. a single european digital market will in particular enable greater competitiveness on the international stage.
in writing. the commission has set out some of the objectives of a possible revision of the framework as early as its 2007 proposals. these objectives are still relevant: the need for more efficient spectrum management, effective and simple regulation where necessary, and the completion of the internal market for electronic communications. since then, new issues have arisen due to the scale and speed of the evolution of the communications sector and user demand. we have already discussed some of these questions. in addition, fragmentation should be avoided, understood both as different rules applying to different member states and as the framework not forming a coherent whole. a well-designed framework, based on the existing rules, should be able to contain in itself the principles, rules and instruments to deal with these major issues.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first of all like to express my support for the request made by mr cohn-bendit and mrs berès to allow the amendments to be discussed and voted on. i know there was some confusion after the conference of presidents; i have written to you, along with several colleagues, about this. you have answered it, but we nevertheless believe that there are reasons to respond in the affirmative to mr cohn-bendit's request. after this first point, the second point i want to make to you and to my colleagues is the other condition of the resolution, namely the creation of a high-level group on own resources. after lengthy discussions, we received a letter from the lithuanian presidency on this subject the day after the conference of presidents. i will not read it all to you, but the presidency agrees in principle to the creation of a working party, but it always uses phrases such as 'should be available', 'could take place', 'possibly launched', 'could take place'... these are the words used by the lithuanian presidency. i think this letter is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. i therefore propose that before the final vote on the mff, you ask the lithuanian presidency - which i think will be in the chamber when the vote on the mff is taken - on behalf of parliament to confirm - as mr lamassoure said in the committee on budgets, as you said at the conference of presidents - that it is in favour of the creation of this high-level working group. this is not clear from the letter and i want to be clear, as i believe mr lamassoure is, as are the group leaders and, in any case, the members of the committee on budgets. my proposal is therefore as follows: let us proceed to the vote after the lithuanian presidency has confirmed the creation of this high-level group!
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult financial and economic context it is indeed almost a miracle that we have managed to maintain the funds for erasmus and even to increase them. i congratulate the commissioner, mrs vassiliou, and of course the rapporteur, mr pack, because their contribution to this task can hardly be overestimated. it goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that these programmes are essential for the future of europe, and i weigh my words. the cooperation and exchange between students and teachers across borders is one of the best and most effective instruments against acidification and against the rise of populism. they are real investments in the depths, in the integration of europe. doubling the number of students, the number of pupils, the number of teachers who can have a cross-border experience by 2020 at the latest is, of course, a good thing. we also want to call on the member states to ensure that they do not skimp on these erasmus grants, because they must invest in the future of their pupils. i think that's a win-win situation. it is in the interest of the member states themselves to give their students the opportunity to gain that experience across the border. and indeed - mrs pack has already said it and mr mcclarkin has also said it - we can finally point out that this programme also lays a budgetary foundation for the european dimension of sport. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but a number of phenomena that threaten sport - i am referring to the fight against match fixing and against doping - are phenomena that we can tackle much more efficiently and much more effectively at european level. there is really an added value to this programme.
in writing. this is the new european framework programme in the field of education, training, youth and sport, for which we will almost double the budget to €15 billion. training our youth is training our future. in the youth field, the new youth in action programme will support the mobility of young people, people active in youth work or youth organisations, and youth workers. we needed to help young people, especially those with fewer opportunities to go abroad, and increase social inclusion and solidarity, especially through individual mobility programmes. we must do everything we can to avoid sacrificing this generation, which will be the foundation of tomorrow's society. by increasing the eu budget for erasmus+ by 40%, europe has understood this; millions of young people will be able to study, teach or volunteer abroad by 2020. training is not a cost but an investment!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, the commission and the council for the result. we are indeed almost at the fourth edition of the transeuropean networks. i'm a little more optimistic than my colleague michael cramer. i feel like it might not be necessary, but it might be a good edition. the better one, in any case, because unlike what we have known before, we are dealing with a real network, not with the addition of new priorities from year to year as in the past. and the network, divided into a comprehensive network and a core network, also has the advantage of covering all regions. as it used to be said, people were not satisfied with the fact that the train was passing by them, but their question was: how can i be connected to railway networks, waterways, airports, ports and the like? the connection is important, and the concept of the two networks gives a concrete answer. all regions are concerned, and not least the question of funding. i agree with mr riquet's remark. we all wish we had more money. but, again, if i compare this to the past, when we were expecting 16 billion and ended up with 8 billion, we're now in a situation where the start is already a little bit better than what we knew before. so that's at least four reasons for me to be a little bit more optimistic. i also say 'could' because the member states must now take part first. those who have helped to draw up the lists and set the priorities must keep their promises, and i think it is good that we are here to watch and check that the money is not hoarded unused, which has also been raised as a concern. there is a possibility. we may not have enough yet, but we can make investment in border regions a priority, even with a programme like this. it depends on the priorities of the countries. we should make proposals to give priority to commodity and multimodality. these are accents we can put on. i always say, quite simply, that the transeuropean networks with the connecting europe facility are one of the answers where it can be said: here europe can invest in growth and in the future! because it's a triple investment that we can guarantee here. and if the council sees this, it may soon increase the funds for these transeuropean networks.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those involved for their work, in particular the rapporteurs ismail ertug and his colleague koumoutsakos for the ten-t, inés ayala sender and my colleague riquet for the cef and, of course, those who were represented from the committee on industry, research and energy. all of them, as a real collective, have guided this dossier through the procedure with a consistent result. of course, as far as the budgets are concerned, the result is less than proposed, less than hoped for. but - as other speakers have already stressed - 23 billion euros, of which 10 billion for the cohesion countries is still considerably better than the eight billion we had available during this period and so we are dealing with a substantial increase in resources, especially for investments in the core network. that is a big plus. we have now identified a number of clear priorities, and that is where european money is going. i think all of this should give a big boost to investments that fall within the european priorities of sustainability and interoperability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the focus on building a genuine european rail network with co-financing of up to 40% for cross-border connections is of course also essential if we are to give our long-term objectives a chance. the next step is, of course, the response of the member states. it is now essential to get the new mechanisms up and running quickly with concrete proposals from the member states following the commission's proposals. and it is also a good thing that parliament will have more influence on the practical implementation of the priorities through delegated acts.
- i'm the reporter. - today is an important day for the next seven years in europe, as we are today adopting the financial framework. it has been a difficult negotiation, but thanks to the unremitting efforts of the negotiating team led by president lamassoure, we have, in the circumstances, reached a satisfactory result. parliament wanted a midterm review, as we did not want to commit the next parliament entirely. this is what we got. parliament wanted complete flexibility. we got it. the house also wanted 11 billion for the 2013 budget to avoid burdening the future with the past. we also got this. parliament wanted the game of codecision to be played according to the rules of the game in the area of legislative powers. we've forced this. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this will be the task of a working group over the next two years. we hope, however, that the presidency of the council will make a very clear commitment today that this group will come up with solutions. in the circumstances, as i said, we can say that parliament has got what it wanted. but it's still a disappointment, a missed opportunity. in a period of economic recession, in a period of austerity, the european budget, which is essentially an investment budget, was the right instrument to provide the stimulus needed to counterbalance austerity. this has not happened because we have a budget which is lower than in the previous period. it is also a missed opportunity because there is no room for the new powers and the dynamic elements in a budget in which agriculture and the structural funds continue to dominate the whole. it is also a missed opportunity because the procedure as provided for in the lisbon treaty was not fully followed, especially by the european council. it is quite clear that we will have to re-examine a number of things. we therefore intend to draw up an own-initiative report drawing lessons from the way in which these negotiations have proceeded. it is clear that parliament is in a weak position in these negotiations. it is also clear that the council and the member states are working with a sum of national interests and not with the european interest. there are two essential ways to avoid this in the future. in the longer term, we must move away from unanimity on the multiannual plan and we must reach a codecision as we did on the budget. but in the short term, we need to come up with our own income. we must break the vicious circle whereby the contributions of the european member states to the european budget are part of their budget, where they are an expense. this is why the member states are holding back the transfer of capabilities. we must return to the original spirit of the treaty, namely that europe must be financed from its own resources, and therefore the mandate of this high-level working group is essential to come up with proposals on this point within two years.
mr president, from the beginning of the crisis, from mr van rompuy to mr barroso, from all the heads of state and even from all the members of this parliament, we have been told that more europe will bring us out of the crisis. and a budget that is down 9%, but that maintains projects for large farmers, large investments - for example, lyon-turin or iter - that reduces international solidarity, that reduces research, that would be the solution. no, i think very seriously that this mff is not a mff of responsibility or courage. it's a leaked and postponed cfp. we're running away because we're not taking responsibility. we are not going to put off the debate, because we are assuming that in two or three years everything will be better, when we all know that we are entering a spiral that will lead us to some twenty billion holes in the coming years. so i don't think this is a courageous cfp. it is above all a cfp of a parliament which does not dare to take up its responsibilities and which does not dare to represent the european citizens, when that is its primary mission! i say to you: if you think that going to the european elections with such a message is going to be easy to explain, i believe above all that we are going to disappoint the european citizens even more.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to have a financial framework, to be able to spend the funds quickly, whether for cohesion, for young people or for research. yes, our negotiators have made progress on flexibility, on the commitments for midterm review, on the reflection on own resources, on the problem of payments. yes, the overall crisis context explains the timidity of the member states. but how can we fully support a shrinking budgetary framework that will not allow us to achieve our objectives of strategy 2020? a framework that includes macro-conditionality, an unfair mechanism? this framework is a bad signal for european integration, for citizens' confidence in the future and in our institutions. what we need is more ambition, more resources, more solidarity between europeans!
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i welcome the constructive spirit of debate which prevails in this house, as usual. i also note some prejudice, which is present as usual but, having spent part of my life striving for pluralist democracy, i acknowledge that there are also critical views of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). however, i should like to make a brief response. while there may be cases of misuse – and they happen, reflecting the various cultures across europe and the various standards of 28 member states – the fact is that we are recovering, and that is not a waste of taxpayers’ money. to give a tiny illustration of the self-imposed discipline at european level: since 2000, only two national-level budgets have grown at a lesser rate than the european budget, and our budget has grown less than 25 national budgets, despite the ‘big bang’ enlargement, as we started the decade with 15 member states and we are now 28. as for the architecture of this new financial framework, mr callanan was wrong in saying that it is the same as the intergovernmental deal in february 2013. i am not talking only about the review clause coming up in 2016, nor about the high-level group on own resources reflecting on a better way of financing the european budget. the real game-changer is flexibility: unusual flexibility. yes, at the beginning of a financial framework period, we are normally returning money at a time when new projects are trying to accelerate. at the end there is a shortage of money. now with this unusual flexibility – maximum flexibility – we can move unused money and margins and thus respond to the typical logic of implementation of the european budget. mr cohn-bendit is right that in democracy, ‘il n’y a jamais une seule possibilité’, so let us reflect for a minute on what the alternative is. the alternative is annual budgeting, but annual budgeting deprives europe of the best qualities of the multiannual financial framework, namely stability and predictability as it responds to the multiannual nature of investment projects, and this is not the place for revolutionary ideas. this is the place for pragmatic solutions to bottlenecks and problems. it is easy to ask municipalities, regions and research institutions across europe competing globally whether they want a ‘no’ vote or whether they want delivery of the new generation of programmes. there is no magic answer to the european crisis. however, we have a partial, real solution for financing growth and jobs within the reality of fiscal consolidation across europe. with the old rationale of a common, united europe evaporating, legitimacy comes via utility, and our budget is about utility to european citizens. thank you for the spirit of cooperation you have shown.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their remarks. many have joined us in welcoming the fact that we have reached the end of this long process. many have also recognised that we have reached a difficult compromise, but the best possible compromise, and that this has required considerable flexibility from all sides. needless to say, we took very good note of what has been said regarding the mid-term review of this mff, as well as the remarks on the payments versus commitments issue. a number of members referred to the importance which parliament attaches to the high-level group on own resources – particularly mr mulder and mr alfonsi, who were calling upon the council to stand up and be counted. i want to be very clear on this point. the council is absolutely committed to this group. it is absolutely committed to organising an inaugural meeting which will take place on 18 or 19 december this year. it is important to the council that standard work in the high-level group start as quickly as possible if we are to deliver an initial assessment by the end of 2014. that is our intention; that is the commitment which i give parliament here and now on behalf of the council. to conclude, it is my hope that now we can go from talking about making the mff a success to actually implementing it, because that is what europe needs and it is what our citizens expect from us.
- i'm the reporter. - i think that this debate has shown very clearly that parliament wants to take responsibility and to ensure the stability and predictability that a multiannual plan offers. at the same time, parliament has ensured that this budget, which is in fact too low, has maximum feasibility thanks to greater flexibility and by carrying as little as possible from the current seven-year plan to the next. however, as has been stressed, it remains a very tight framework which, as already shown in the 2014 budget, will be subject to a very difficult debate each year and which cannot always or very little deal with unforeseen circumstances. so it 's going to be a very difficult exercise that hopefully can be corrected in the 2017 review . the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. and then it will be said that europe is not achieving its objectives. we must learn from this and the lessons must come mainly from a more autonomous budget financed from own resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european budget must, once again, add value to the european countries as a whole. the european budget is an investment budget and it should be a counterweight, a balancing element against the tightness of national budgets.
in writing. − it is of course good that there is finally an agreement on the european multiannual budget 2014-2020, but anyone who advocates stronger european cooperation can hardly be enthusiastic about this. we must not only turn europe's attention to the need for solidarity in times of crisis, but also dare to invest more jointly in a number of areas. for example, we would have wanted more funds from the european parliament for research and innovation, because our prosperity is directly dependent on the innovative capacity of our economies. fortunately, there is a strong commitment to the renewed erasmus+ programme, with a 40% increase in funding compared to 2007-2013. a mid-term review of this multiannual budget will be absolutely necessary to maintain the right focus. the european parliament must continue to defend the eu's own resources as a priority. this will allow member states' national contributions to be gradually reduced and replaced by european own resources, without any increase in the burden on citizens or businesses. we can also get rid of the culture of 'juste retour' which is paralysing the council and hindering ambitious european long-term planning.
in writing. after months of negotiations between parliament and the member states, an agreement was finally reached, setting out the budget allocated to the european union for the next seven years. the stakes are high because it will directly define the limits of the policy of recovery. many guarantees have been granted to the european parliament, including the flexibility clause allowing the budget surplus to be carried over to the following year. this flexibility will enable the union to respond better to different situations over time. a revision clause was signed and a working group on the revision of the european budgetary policy was set up. the difficult negotiations have underlined the need for the union to have its own resources to allow it to enjoy greater independence, as well as a strengthening of the european budget. as a liberal, i am in favour of sound management of public finances. however, i wonder how much money was finally allocated. the european budget is not ambitious enough to ensure the consolidation of the pillars of our economy (investment, innovation and research).
in writing. we voted in favour of the budget but without much joy. the sum of grey smoke for white smoke on the assumption that refusing this budget would condemn many projects and ruin the cap, training, the eafrd, ... we must do more with less, which is absurd. it is time we understood that europe is the solution and that we must give it the means.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text but i would like to denounce the negotiating strategy of the council, whose negotiators were required to respect the conclusions of the european council of 8 february 2013 on matters falling under the ordinary legislative procedure, such as the precise criteria for allocating resources, the envelopes per programme and per beneficiary and the discretionary financial allocations allowing the amount of appropriations from the union budget to be transferred to the states to be adjusted, thus preventing the two arms of the legislative authority from conducting genuine negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on the grounds that these additional appropriations should help to remedy the particular situations of unemployment particularly among young people of poverty and social exclusion in these member states, and that the commission considers that the most appropriate way of helping them is to strengthen the european social fund.
in writing. we accepted the eur 14,8 million reduction introduced by the council only because this amount would be in addition to the eur 11,2 billion provided for in the rp 2/2013. in this context, it should be stressed that it maintains its position in principle that special instruments such as the european union solidarity fund should be financed by means of new appropriations, both commitments and payments, in addition to the ceilings of the mff.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to help workers who have suffered massive economic redundancies as a result of the increasing globalisation of trade and major changes in industrial structures. the crisis in europe naturally affects businesses and, as a consequence, a large majority of citizens. we must do everything we can to limit social crises as much as possible. that is why i supported the plenkovic report, which provides aid (eur 840,000) from the european globalisation adjustment fund to spain, which is currently facing redundancies in the construction materials manufacturing sector. i also call for simplification of the procedures and the conditions for access to the mobilisation fund.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. employment in the comunidad valenciana has been hit hard by the crisis: the region's unemployment rate has risen rapidly from 9,61% (in the first quarter of 2008) to 29,19% (in the first quarter of 2013). the employment situation in the region appears to be particularly fragile, given the impact of the crisis on traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and construction, which are very important for the regional economy. in addition, the number of jobs available in nace rev. 2 division 23 in the comunidad valenciana decreased by almost 40% between 2008 and 2011. it is therefore normal and justified to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. in an increasingly interconnected and interdependent global economy, it is important to regulate issues of economic cooperation at the global level in multilateral agreements. this approach makes it possible to create an international scheme designed jointly by several partners and best suited to different needs. there was a need to ensure greater transparency and to improve the conduct of the tendering process.
in writing. one of the most important tasks for any government is to provide services of general interest to its population, in particular access to basic services such as water, housing, waste management, health, education and culture. other countries adopt different strategies, balancing the need to spend the scarce public resources effectively with the search for the best possible utility and quality of the services and goods purchased. in many countries, public procurement is also a key instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a given region, as well as for promoting high environmental protection standards and decent working conditions. i voted in favour of this text, which i support all the more as rapporteur on the new public procurement directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the erasmus+ report, which represents a real opportunity for young people in the european union aged 13 to 30 to travel abroad through various education and training programmes such as comenius, erasmus and leonardo da vinci. this erasmus+ programme merges all the existing programmes and adds a new pillar, sport. this decision will enable more than 4 million people, including students, trainees, apprentices and volunteers, to benefit from the €14.7 billion allocated to the programme over the period 2014-2020. this is a very good signal to the young people of europe and i welcome it.
in writing. i am pleased with the future of this programme, although there is a small problem with the funding. a more ambitious policy for the training of young people would be most welcome. erasmus+ will target a larger number of young people. by integrating sports and borrowing possibilities, it also becomes accessible. erasmus gives young people a real chance to live an experience that will make them discover other cultures, other visions, but above all mutual respect by eliminating prejudices.
in writing. i welcome the new european programme erasmus+ proposed by the committee on education, training, youth and sport. the budget allocated has been increased by 70%. this resolution is an example of a european union that supports its citizens to compete in the increasingly competitive global labour market. this new streamlined and inclusive system is aimed at several categories of people. the programme will now be open to youth leaders, volunteers and young athletes. in addition, to help the less privileged, the programme provides a mechanism for obtaining loans on favourable terms to give everyone the opportunity to study in another country. it will also be necessary to ensure better coordination between training institutions and enterprises.
in writing. − the report on the 'erasmus for all' programme to support education, training, youth and sport for the period 2014-2020 put to the vote today is a good step forward. erasmus+ combines seven different programmes designed to simplify participation. the emphasis is on strengthening mobility and cooperation between different levels of education in order to promote exchanges. it is also important that this is a matter of quality education, training and traineeships, so that the transition from education to work is easier. the learning of new languages and the recognition of the equivalence of informal learning and non-formal education are also positive aspects. the budget was also increased to eur 13.1 billion, a 40% increase on the previous programme, allowing more grants to be awarded and enabling more than five million europeans to benefit from the new system. it is essential to promote mobility among citizens on a continuous basis, especially in times of crisis. the eu must create opportunities and encourage citizens, and more specifically young people, to exchange and learn from each other. this erasmus+ programme is already moving in that direction and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the european parliament has just voted on the erasmus+ plan. this is the new european framework programme in the field of education, training, youth and sport, for which we are going to almost double the budget to eur 15 billion. training our youth is training our future. we must do everything we can to avoid sacrificing this generation, which will be the foundation of tomorrow's society. europe understood this well when it increased the european budget for erasmus+ by 40%. millions of young people will be able to study, teach or volunteer abroad by 2020. training is not a cost but an investment!
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of the creative europe programme. it should be noted that the cultural sector is of central importance in the european union, accounting for 7% of european gdp and employing 8 million people in more than 1 million enterprises. but culture also plays a vital role in europe in terms of our history, our values and our respective traditions, which we must protect. now, through a loan guarantee mechanism, the european union will effectively support the european cultural sector by allocating €1.4 billion to support the creative sector, in particular the audiovisual sector. while i welcome the adoption of this programme by the european parliament, i hope that the council will vote in favour of it in january 2014 so that the programme can be effectively implemented for the next seven years.
in writing. the creative europe programme, which aims to promote the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) as a source of smart, sustainable and innovative economic growth, is a european added value. culture is not only an intrinsic value but also an economic sector. the initiative covers more than 1 million businesses, including 6 million people, or 5 to 7% of european gdp. furthermore, culture is education, training and openness to knowledge. a society with a school system is by definition a source of jobs. culture is the cement of positive identities, which defines both the individual and the collective, which makes us exist, as humans and as peoples. it is the highest expression of a people's identity and the foundation of social cohesion. it is a vital element of dialogue and of pacification in relations between peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. in my view, the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and the future of european unity in diversity, characterised by pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to consolidate its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, dialogue between cultures and openness to third countries. in this context, the european union protects and promotes tangible and intangible heritage and ensures that the cultural dimension is taken into account in all policies.
in writing. the complexity of the functioning of the european union and the specific nature of its powers foster, among some european citizens, a lack of knowledge and a deep disinterest in the european project, thus generating a skeptical and critical view based on erroneous arguments. the foundation of our european political system cannot be based on ignorance, especially since all the decisions taken at this level have a direct impact on the well-being of each citizen. this is why i welcome this report, which aims to encourage the setting up of activities and projects aimed at promoting understanding, reflection and identification with the construction of the european project and the resulting citizenship. it is our duty to explain and communicate better about the added value of europe and how it works. this seems to me to be of paramount importance not only in the run-up to the elections but also for the future of european integration.
in writing. the commission's proposal for the europe for citizens programme (2014-2020), which follows on from the current programme (2007-2013), is, despite its relatively modest budget (eur 229 000 000), one of the most visible programmes examined by the european parliament's committee on culture and education. the objective of the programme is to strengthen memory and capacity for civic participation at union level, and this programme is the only one exclusively dedicated to the promotion of these objectives at european level. the new programme proposed is similar to the current 'europe for citizens' programme (2007-2013) but with some further improvements.
in writing. − with the adoption of the connecting europe facility, we have taken an important step towards further stimulating investment in transport, energy and telecommunications networks over the period 2014-2020. the cef will provide some eur 22 billion for transport, some eur 6 billion for energy and some eur 1 billion for telecommunications. investments in existing and new transport infrastructure are vital to the proper functioning of our businesses. in addition, a european transport network will make an important contribution to further reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport and making the most of the opportunities for intermodal transport. in the energy sector too, investment in crossborder energy infrastructure is of the utmost importance in order to reduce our energy dependence on third countries and to keep energy prices affordable for citizens and businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the completion of the transeuropean networks for transport, energy and telecommunications. it is absolutely essential that europe should step up its resources, particularly financial resources, to achieve this objective of transport, whether human, energy or communications. this should enable people in the european union to move more freely, energy to move at lower costs while improving the security of our supplies, but also citizens to benefit from an efficient communication network throughout europe. the interconnection of european countries is therefore, in my view, a top priority, and thanks to the adoption of this report, more than eur 29.3 billion will be allocated to this objective over the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i particularly welcome these two reports on the creation of the connecting europe facility and the establishment of a trans-european transport network, because they promote european added value, especially in crossborder areas. the implementation of transeuropean transport networks is often hampered by a lack of money and often by a lack of willingness on the part of the countries concerned. in particular, when it comes to crossborder infrastructure, countries often ask themselves why they should finance it. these guidelines on european transport networks and their financing instrument will give a strong impetus to the implementation of projects, because they will support the whole infrastructure network and not just individual infrastructure projects, thus creating a real network. the improvement of road infrastructure, the extension or modernisation of rail links and the promotion of waterways will be of immense benefit to the regions and their inhabitants. these investments - mainly in transport and thus in mobility - have a triple effect: planning and building infrastructure, connecting at eu level and promoting whole regions strengthen europe's economic location and territorial cohesion. the network brings europe together and creates jobs.
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached with the member states on the new connecting europe facility (cef). the agreement, which provides €29.3 billion (2014 to 2020) to improve europe's communication and telecommunications networks, is the only growth policy in the european budget. it is necessary to be creative in order to combat the crisis and resolve the various conflicts. the aim of the emi is to accelerate funding for completion of major transeuropean networks in transport, energy and telecommunications. this is a tool which will help to boost our competitiveness and lay the foundations for a new start to growth. in a separate vote, i also approved the guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network. it is important to implement together a functioning interconnected network. by carrying out projects for the future, by making coherent investments, we are giving a positive image of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, we will have to ensure above all that significant budgetary and operational resources are allocated to this mechanism. the weakening of these means would empty the system of its content and seriously jeopardise the union's growth and competitiveness policies.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the trans-european transport network (ten-t). we know that the movement of people and goods within the single market, whether by land, sea or air, is one of the most fundamental pillars of the european union. this project also represents a real opportunity to support the economic and social cohesion of the regions of the european union. ensuring that all transport modes are accessible, coordinated and interconnected across the 28 member states of the european union is a major challenge that we must focus on. i hope that this network, which was started in 1996, will become a reality in europe as soon as possible. the text contains a number of solutions which go in that direction, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i particularly welcome these two reports on the establishment of a transeuropean transport network and the creation of the connecting europe facility, because they promote european added value, especially in crossborder areas. the implementation of transeuropean transport networks is often hampered by a lack of money and often by a lack of willingness on the part of the countries concerned. in particular, when it comes to crossborder infrastructure, countries often ask themselves why they should finance it. these guidelines on european transport networks and their financing instrument will give a strong impetus to the implementation of projects, because they will support the whole infrastructure network and not just individual infrastructure projects, thus creating a real network. the improvement of road infrastructure, the extension or modernisation of rail links and the promotion of waterways will be of immense benefit to the regions and their inhabitants. these investments - mainly in transport and thus in mobility - have a triple effect: planning and building infrastructure, connecting at eu level and promoting whole regions strengthen europe's economic location and territorial cohesion. the network brings europe together and creates jobs.
in writing. transport is the backbone of a thriving economy and the cornerstone of social cohesion and integration in our society. the shortcomings identified in the trans-european transport network (ten-t) have a significant impact on the free movement of goods and persons. accessible and efficient transport infrastructure is essential for the provision of operational transport services, free movement and the ability of all regions of the european union to remain competitive within the european single market. the existence of intelligent infrastructures is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the transport system. infrastructure investments have a very long payback period. infrastructure offers benefits if it is built and designed properly for several generations. it was therefore important to pass this text.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context. more specifically, it is necessary to define the powers of the commission and to establish the appropriate procedure to enable it to adopt measures under those powers. it is important that the union is a coherent institution so that we can be credible as an international actor. i therefore welcome the report by mr de castro which aims to coordinate legislative acts with the new treaties.
in writing. the commission has committed itself to reviewing, in the light of the criteria laid down in the tfeu, legislative acts which currently include references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the general objective is to remove all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny from all legislative instruments by the end of the seventh parliamentary term (in june 2014). i am in favour of this modus operandi and i welcome the work of my colleague mr de castro.
in writing. water management is a top priority. the helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, signed in 1992, sets out the rules for the use of water by the member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), in particular with regard to the principle of sustainable development. however, it appears that some parties to the convention wished that countries outside the unece region could also become parties to the convention (amendments 25 and 26 to the convention). to do this, the european union was legally obliged to seek the official opinion of the european parliament before the latter could apply them. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which will make them effective.
in writing. like my distinguished colleague, mr groote, i am in favour of parliament accepting the amendment of articles 25 and 26 of the convention in order to open it up to the world and to make it possible for countries wishing to join the unece to join.
in writing. the agreement establishing the iter organisation was signed in 2006. this agreement provides that the organisation is to assume full responsibility for the construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of the iter facilities. the iter project was concluded between the european union, india, japan, china, russia, south korea and the united states for fusion energy. all parties must make contributions to the organisation. however, the expenditure is higher than expected. the commission proposes to implement a complementary research programme for the iter project which is outside the multiannual financial framework. i therefore welcome the council's decision and mr remek's report on the establishment of this programme. by supporting this program we are preparing the future of our children and grandchildren.
in writing. i am of the opinion that the commission's proposal is not the right instrument to guarantee a secure european contribution to the iter project in the long term. this project should be financed under the mff. any other funding option would be confusing to the european actors involved in the programme and would not be understood by our international partners. i believe that the union, as the host of the project, has a duty to give every guarantee of strong and continuous support for the iter project in the decades to come. it should also be borne in mind that the cfp funding for iter will enable parliament to monitor the project more closely. for all these reasons, i support the eesc and the outcome of the vote in the itre committee on the regulation on the european atomic energy community's research and training programme (2014-2018) complementing horizon 2020, both of which call for the iter project to be re-incorporated into the mff. all possibilities for working on this should be explored.
in writing. the results of the nuclear stress tests, carried out in 2011, should be borne in mind when considering the budget allocated. the budget of 13.5% for administrative expenditure seems too high, without any justification, and needs to be revised. to keep nuclear power, yes; to invest in nuclear safety, yes; but to make nuclear the exclusive energy of tomorrow, no. we must continue to invest heavily in research in order to promote a clean planet and secure a future for our children.
in writing. i welcome this programme which establishes a new instrument for cooperation on nuclear safety (icsn) 2014-2020. this instrument finances measures to strengthen nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of effective nuclear material control measures in countries as part of the overhaul of the eu's external policy financing instruments. events outside the union's borders have a direct impact on the security of eu citizens. it is therefore in the interest of the european union to cooperate and act in the world in order to ensure stability.
in writing. i support the commission's proposal as amended. i note that the financial envelope specified in the legislative proposal is only an indication for the legislative authority and that it cannot be fixed until agreement has been reached on the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. the safety of our nuclear power stations is a crucial issue for the safety of our european citizens. i therefore welcome mr chichester's report which provides financial assistance to bulgaria, lithuania and slovenia to enable them to continue their nuclear decommissioning programmes. the resources available in these countries are insufficient to ensure the continuation and completion of decommissioning in accordance with safety requirements. the union's withdrawal of assistance to the programme after 2013 is not possible as this would endanger the nuclear security of europe and thus that of its citizens.
in writing. all three countries (lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria) operated old nuclear reactors which were considered obsolete by the international community and were too expensive to upgrade to meet the minimum required safety standards. in the context of the negotiations for accession to the european union, these three countries have undertaken to close and subsequently dismantle these nuclear reactors by fixed dates. recognising the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burden of this early shutdown, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance until the end of 2013 both for decommissioning these reactors and to deal with the consequences of the early shutdown. i support the approach of these three countries and i shall vote in favour of the text.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- report by lambert van nistelrooij and constanze angela krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund under the common strategic framework, laying down general provisions applicable to the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 (com (2013) 0246 c7-0107/213 2011/0276 c7-0802/2011 c0-0802/2011 c0-0802/2011 c0-0262/2011 c0-0802/2011 c0-0262/2011 c0-0262/2011 c0-0262/2011 c0-0262/2011 c0-07-07/2011 c0-07-026/2011 c0-07-07/2011 c0-07-06-061/2011 c0-07-067/2011
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe will be social or it will not be: that is my conviction, and i am sure that it is also the conviction of many colleagues, particularly in the committee on employment and social affairs. i would like to emphasize the work done by our negotiators on the european social fund. in a context of increasing unemployment, especially among young people, and increasing insecurity, it is important to devote more resources to training, assistance for entry, return to work or retention in employment. in my report on the platform against poverty, i already stressed the importance of the european social fund and the need to strengthen it to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. we have also reiterated this in the context of these negotiations. in this context, it is unacceptable, as i had the opportunity to stress in the debate on the financial framework, to make the allocation of these funds to social and solidarity purposes conditional on respect for budgetary austerity. cohesion and solidarity between states and between citizens must now, more than ever, be part of the dna of the european union.
in writing. the esf is a key instrument of european solidarity. it is therefore very important that we have managed to secure the future of the esf and to significantly improve the functioning of the esf in a time of high (youth) unemployment and growing inequalities in many european member states. the new esf will have simpler procedures, which will allow the funds to be used more efficiently. the fight against youth unemployment must be given a strong backing through the youth employment initiative. it is also good that 20% of the resources are reserved to reach the most vulnerable in our society. at least 23.1% or about eur 71 billion of the total cohesion funds are reserved for the esf. but member states are free to draw this amount. let us therefore do everything possible to ensure that the necessary social incentives are given at national level.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i just want to ask mr agnew a question, but i could have asked mrs yannakoudakis the same question. i have heard the same term twice in your speeches, namely the notion of the merits of places. the allocation of decision-making positions in companies is based on merit. but are you not aware, ladies and gentlemen, that in the present system - which does not encourage the promotion of women in the hierarchy and in the decision-making hierarchy - many women, despite their merits, have been denied promotion because they are women? do you believe this fact i'm stating is true? or are you completely off topic, because clearly, i believe in merit, it's important, but a lot of women have been bullied, i say! so do you agree with me that many of them didn't get the promotion they deserved because they were women?
mr president, i would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs, mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou and mrs evelyn regner, for their report, as well as others, but i also welcome the initial intention of commissioner viviane reding, which is a good starting point. i would like to share two thoughts with you, because i only have a minute. quotas, let's define them, they are a necessary evil! as several colleagues have said, without quotas there is no development. it is therefore through the use of coercion and the establishment of certain rules that the situation will change. we have done so in the public sphere, in the representation of women at political level: parliament is now 35% female, compared with 30% in the previous parliament, because the member states have gradually adopted rules. finally, if we talk about norway, often quoted in a distorted way, we must pay tribute to the conservative minister, mr ansgar gabrielsen, because norway is associated with the name of the man who was, ten years ago, its minister of industry, who had proposed this measure because only 9% of women were directors and members of the boards of directors of large companies, a proportion that has risen to 40%. do people complain about it today? no, you can't! norway does not complain about this, and europe will not complain about it tomorrow either!
mr president, with the reformed cap, direct aid will be better distributed, especially thanks to the rule of the first hectare premium - which we owe to our former colleague stéphane le foll, whom i welcome in passing - and even more to this differentiated aid to the first hectare than to the 'degradability' ceiling, which has undoubtedly lacked ambition and which, even if we have adjusted it at parliament's level, could have been more radical. the maintenance of the principle of coupling, with particular attention to the production of vegetable proteins, is an excellent element, as is attention to the young. it was necessary. it was a necessity. as regards the diversification of crops, we would have preferred rotation, but diversification is already a plus! as regards rural development, better adaptation of aid to the needs of the territories with less rigidity. in short, there are advances, there's no denying that. we must emphasize and insist on this. as you said, commissioner, the cap is the result of a compromise and therefore not necessarily the one we could have dreamed of at the beginning of the procedure.
in writing. after lengthy negotiations between the council and parliament, an agreement on the general budget of the union for 2014 was signed. the european union will thus have less money at its disposal than in previous years. policies will need to focus on employment, research, innovation, education, border management and humanitarian aid. the amount allocated will allow very little room for manoeuvre for the coming year. it is therefore essential to use the new flexibility mechanisms. the three major institutions also recalled the need to reduce their staff by 5% in 5 years. it can therefore be concluded that the union is participating in the budgetary effort on an equal footing with all the member states. however, it must be borne in mind that such measures will not help to put in place a policy that will allow for an ambitious recovery. for example, the three billion allocated to the eight million young unemployed represent only about a payment of one euro per day to each unemployed person...
in writing. having examined all possibilities for reallocation of appropriations, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of eur 89 330 000 for structural funds programmes for cyprus, in order to provide the latter with an additional allocation from the structural funds.
in writing. my thoughts are first and foremost with the people and families affected by the natural disasters that occurred in europe in 2012 and 2013. in particular, i would like to express my support and solidarity with the victims of the drought and forest fires in romania (2012) and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic (may and june 2013). these disasters are not foreseeable, let alone inevitable, but it is possible to react quickly. i also welcome the spirit of solidarity that these disasters have generated and congratulate all those who have helped the victims. in this respect, the agreement on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is essential.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, germany, austria and the czech republic on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the interinstitutional agreement allows the mobilisation of the fund up to a maximum annual amount of eur 1 000 000 000. this is the second proposal to mobilise the fund submitted in 2013. during the summer of 2012, romania experienced very low rainfall and recurrent heat waves over most of its territory, which led to drought and consequently to poor harvests, numerous forest and vegetation fires, water shortages and thus problems with water distribution and hydropower generation systems. the romanian authorities then decided in november 2012 to apply for financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. i approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to provide commitment appropriations of eur 134 049 037 to finance these additional appropriations under heading 1b and therefore voted in favour of the request by my colleague mr böge.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report so that the european union finally has radio navigation systems which allow it to be fully independent and autonomous. in addition to providing quality services to citizens and enabling european industry to perform better, this will enable the union to become independent in this area from the united states (gps) or russia (glonass), on which it is currently largely dependent. the two main european programmes, galileo and the european geostationary navigation overlay service (egnos), therefore need strong financial and political support, especially as the financial and job creation benefits could be very significant in the long term for the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new rules to develop the european satellite navigation system under civilian control. the two services - galileo and the european geostationary overlay navigation service (egnos) - will strengthen the eu's autonomy from the us and russian global positioning system (gps) glonass for many applications in the security, transport, maritime and everyday life sectors. these two services will thus enable the development of new markets, thus creating new job opportunities.
in writing. the european satellite radio navigation policy aims to equip the union with two satellite radio navigation systems, namely the system resulting from the galileo programme and the egnos system. global navigation satellite systems (gnss) technologies, with their ability to provide highly reliable and accurate measurements of position, speed and time, are fundamental to improving efficiency in many sectors of the economy and in many areas of citizens' daily lives. the galileo programme will not be fully operational in 2013 as planned. since the gnss regulation does not provide a framework for the funding and governance of the galileo and egnos programmes after 2013, a new legal basis is necessary for the systems to be operational, maintained and managed in the long term. i strongly support the objective of the galileo programme, which is to set up the first gnss under civilian control, completely independent of other existing systems, interoperable with other different systems and intended to provide uninterrupted gnss services.
in writing. the economy of the hashemite kingdom of jordan has been particularly affected by the global economic crisis, the arab revolutions and the political transition in the country. external revenues have thus deteriorated considerably and public finances have been affected. the syrian crisis and the mass arrival of refugees have exacerbated this imbalance. despite significant fiscal consolidation efforts and financial support from foreign donors, jordan has launched an appeal for additional assistance. the european union has responded positively and will provide macro-financial assistance to further stabilise the country. the eu is a long-standing partner of jordan and supports its human rights efforts. however, efforts remain to be made, for example, with regard to the legal abolition of the death penalty, the nationality law, gender equality, the protection of all workers.
in writing. under the joint declaration of the european parliament and of the council adopted in parallel with the decision granting additional macro-financial assistance to georgia (adopted by parliament on 4 july 2013), the parliament and the council committed to 'fully implement the considerations and principles [set out in the joint declaration] in the case-by-case decisions to grant union macro-financial assistance'. therefore, the amendments contained in this report and amending the commission proposal for a decision granting macro-financial assistance to jordan reflect the considerations and principles set out in that joint declaration and harmonise the wording of that proposal with the recitals and articles of the decision granting macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic (as adopted during the informal trilogue for a 'fast track second reading agreement').
in writing. the fight against drugs and drug trafficking is a global challenge. drugs ruin lives, threaten the security of citizens, and require considerable financial resources to eliminate. drug precursors, chemicals that can be produced for legal purposes or abused to produce illicit drugs, must be closely monitored. we need to act quickly and in the long term because the sector is changing rapidly. the proust report is particularly relevant. it aims not only to strengthen cooperation between the european union and russia to prevent drug precursors from being diverted from the legal trade but also to combat the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am particularly sensitive to the issue of the fight against drugs at international level and i would like to support the european parliament's approval of this agreement for several reasons. this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the russian federation aims to improve cooperation between these two major trading partners in the field of monitoring trade in drug precursors. these precursors are legal substances that can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. they are subject to checks at export, import and transit which vary according to the risk of diversion.
in writing. i do not question the operational needs of member states who want europol to conclude agreements with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. i would argue, however, that the draft decision cannot be adopted on the basis of provisions which are not in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. concerns also remain regarding the current level of data protection in some of the states on the list. therefore, even if the draft decision were to be adopted, the director and the management board of europol should refrain from entering into any negotiation of operational agreements with the states on that list until the new europol regulation has entered into force.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 723/2009 on a community legal framework for a european research infrastructure consortium (eric) and approve the commission proposal.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the framework for the european structural and investment funds. the revision of the european funds should ensure that they are better used to reduce unemployment and poverty and that investments are sustainable and prioritised. during the negotiations parliament made important improvements. however, these are threatened by the macroeconomic conditionality which the commission and the council intend to impose. i am pleased with the increased participation of local partners and civil society through a binding code of conduct. bad spending will be better prevented by ex ante conditionality (e.g. anti-discrimination, gender equality and environmental impact assessment policies). in addition, environmental and climate protection is built in through the horizontal principles and conditions and there is a lower limit of expenditure for the european and social funds. i am in favour of this sustainability and social reform. i am, however, strongly opposed to linking these funds to macroeconomic conditionality. the extension of the conditionalities of the stability and growth pact to the regions completely undermines the purpose of the structural and investment funds. if this is imposed, we will deprive the regions of one of the few opportunities for much-needed public investment in difficult financial and economic times.
in writing. in the context of the continuing economic and financial crisis and related uncertainties, the need to consolidate public budgets has required greater innovation and a greater impact of the funds available. cohesion policy, through the use of its instruments, namely the structural funds and the cohesion fund, has long demonstrated its added value as an indispensable tool for effectively promoting growth and job creation by precisely responding to the investment needs of all regions. it has not only contributed to reducing disparities between member states and regions, but also to economic recovery and development throughout the union. the same applies to the agricultural development fund and the fisheries fund. however, i voted against this text because several of the amendments it contains jeopardise the objectives set out and i ask that this report be reconsidered because the instruments proposed threaten european solidarity and put at great risk those countries which are already experiencing the greatest problems. the conclusion of this text is to want to do better and do worse.
in writing. i regret that there are not more resources allocated to regional policy because it is a mobilizing element of european solidarity. austerity is not a unilateral cut in spending but the courage to choose priorities. the funds are being misused, and they are a real common investment in our future and a unique way of countering the effects of the crisis on the most disadvantaged people and regions. the european social fund (esf) is, however, an important vehicle for regional policy, fostering synergy between the 271 european regions. the esf shall contribute to supporting growth and job creation in the union; it is the world's largest human capital investment fund. i voted in favour of this text because it is through this fund that initiatives promoting employment are taken, including training to help the unemployed find their way back to employment and initiatives to better integrate disabled people into society.
in writing. the esf must remain a major eu policy, in particular in supporting regional authorities in financing continuing training. the european social fund also aims to increase employment opportunities, promote lifelong learning, strengthen social inclusion, contribute to the fight against poverty and help public administrations to better serve citizens and jobseekers. the european social fund is a major tool in the policy of recovery!
in writing. the text as approved provides a clearer and simplified framework for investment, as it ensures coordination with other fund-specific regulations, as well as with the regulation on common provisions, through the links established and the thematic objectives and/or investment priorities. this is a major step forward in improving coordination and strengthening synergies between the funds and the implementation of the funds to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the new elements of thematic concentration provide for a greater concentration of resources on a limited number of objectives, which should result in a higher added value of assistance. finally, the new erdf includes for the first time a mandatory urban dimension and ensures that a broader priority is given to urban development at a strategic level.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text because we are now setting the foundations for the future of the whole of europe in our border regions. for people living in a border region, territorial cooperation is and will remain of paramount importance, especially in the fields of health, social security and training. to achieve these ambitious objectives, i believe that even more resources should have been allocated to regional policy. however, the need and importance of this text go beyond the question of the budget. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this regulation defines the scope of the european regional development fund for the european territorial cooperation objective. the commission has chosen to propose a separate regulation for european territorial cooperation in order to take full account of its specificities and its plurinational context. one of the novel features of the proposal is that it contains provisions on thematic concentration and investment priorities. the improvement in the strategic orientation of programmes and their focus on results is a positive development. in addition, it is necessary to reduce the administrative burden and to provide for greater harmonisation of the rules in order to facilitate the implementation of the programme and the overall success of cooperation. the rapporteur believes that the commission should provide, at the request of parliament or the council, updated reports on the effectiveness of cohesion policy and the added value and growth it generates.
in writing. under the legislative package for cohesion policy proposed by the commission, the cohesion fund is part of the new common strategic framework funds, which will cover the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. all these funds will be subject to common provisions in several areas of programming and financial management. in addition, as in the current programming period, the cohesion fund, the erdf and the esf will continue to be governed by another set of common specific rules on programming, management and monitoring. although the commission is proposing a new framework for the funds, the scope of the cohesion fund and its specific objectives have not changed significantly from the current programming period. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i am in favour of this text because it is a matter of simplified and clarified rules which will help to increase legal certainty and encourage more future partners to strengthen territorial cooperation with the union and between regions of the member states and third countries.
in writing. the principle of gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. it is therefore worrying to see that this balance is still not being respected today and that there are still serious imbalances in this area. it is regrettable that we have to rely on a binding legal basis to ensure that this balance is respected, and that common sense is not enough to eliminate this discrimination. the proposed objective of raising the proportion of non-executive directors of the underrepresented sex to at least 40% by 2020 in privately listed companies and by 2018 in publicly listed companies is therefore an unfortunate necessity which i support. the european union must set an example and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. why compensate for inequality of fact by inequality of law? this is the question that the european parliament has clearly neglected when it adopted by a large majority the kratsa-regner report on the quota of women on the boards of publicly traded companies. a report that specifically targets the objective of at least 40% female representation on boards: as of january 2018 for public enterprises, and in january 2020 for private companies. i abstained on the final vote on the legislative proposal. i am not going to go into the details of the vote on the report, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what is the legitimacy of interfering in the life of private companies and of imposing penalties for non-compliance with the directive? if europe is serious about a gender policy that delivers results, then it must be concerned about the condition of working women in general and the difficulty they face, on a daily basis, in achieving a better balance between work and family life. it is another debate, but it is the real debate, the only one capable of ever meeting the goal of real equality between the sexes.
in writing. − in 2011, the european commission called on companies to make voluntary efforts on women's representation on their boards. in 2013, it was estimated that only 16.6% of women are in the highest decision-making bodies of large european companies. this is not because of a shortage of qualified women, since 60% of university graduates in the eu are women, but because the voluntary approach has failed miserably. compelling companies to change has already proven successful in closing the gender gap in several eu member states and encouraging these companies to tap into new talent. the report to be voted on today (20/11/2013) will continue this line at european level and will require large public (by 2018) and private (by 2020) companies to adapt their recruitment, selection and appointment procedures to increase female representation on boards to at least 40%. if two equal candidates of the opposite sex remain, the company is obliged to choose the underrepresented sex. i am convinced that a more diverse board of directors is an added value for a company and will benefit us all, and that is why i am voting for this report with my group, the greens.
in writing. the european parliament has just taken a big step in its fight for greater equality between women and men. the text adopted introduces a minimum rate of 40% of women on the boards of directors. what was only a request a short while ago is now a legal obligation under penalty of sanctions for the most unruly companies. equality becomes more than a concept! the european parliament has taken a decision of major consequence to break the glass ceiling which prevents european women from accessing positions of responsibility. it is a pity that we have to impose quotas, but it seems to be the only way of getting some companies out of their old ways.
in writing. after three years of intensive negotiations and political agreement, the european parliament gives its final agreement on the new common agricultural policy of the european union. for the first time, parliament took part in the legislative process as a co-decision-maker. this has considerably increased the legitimacy of this new policy. this reform has simplified the way the cap operates and has strengthened the necessary balance between food security and enhanced environmental protection. as regards direct payments, we supported the compromise proposals on greening, the right to payment, the optional scheme for small farmers, internal convergence and the scheme for young farmers. as regards the regulation of the common organization of the market, we considered that the compromise proposals were, on the whole, moving in the right direction. we have been particularly careful not to unravel the cmos. european funds will now be distributed more equitably to enable all european farmers to better meet the challenges of the market. new tools have also been introduced to ensure a degree of stability in this market, which is often subject to price volatility.
in writing. the european parliament finally votes on the new european common agricultural policy (cap). the two key words are "fairness" and "flexibility". the new cap is fairer because it distributes agricultural aid more evenly. it is also more flexible and will allow aid to be redistributed to sectors in difficulty such as livestock farming. the new cap is not perfect, but it is a plus for european agriculture and will help to avoid the worst. good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy. agriculture must be preserved to ensure that the half billion europeans can still eat 'made in europe' throughout this century.
in writing. in july 2012, the european commission published three legislative proposals to strengthen consumer protection in financial services, including retail packaged investment products prips. the aim of the commission proposal is to improve transparency and the protection of retail investors in the eu retail investment market. consumers should be provided with a key investor information document in a standardised and easy to understand format. i voted against article 13d which caps the price of advice at 200 euros because it is hardly acceptable in a market where competition between advisers is particularly strong.
in writing. i voted for the report by mrs pervenche berès. this regulation lays down uniform rules on the format and content of the key information document to be drawn up exclusively by the originators of investment products, on the attachment to the key information document to be drawn up, where appropriate, by persons selling investment products, on the information to be provided to retail investors by persons selling investment products in accordance with the mif directive and the insurance intermediation directive of the european parliament and of the council (imd directive) and on the uniform rules on the provision of such documents to retail investors. it is intended to enable retail investors to understand and compare the essential characteristics of investment products and the risks inherent in them, and it places the responsibility for the preparation of the key information document on the originator of the investment product and the responsibility for the preparation of the notes on the accounts on the persons selling investment products.
in writing. we would have liked even more equity with a lower ceiling and a stronger degressivity, but we were, among other things, isolated when it came to fighting for the dairy sector or the ceiling on aid, which i would have liked to have been lower. but let us be clear: to vote against this new cap would have been irresponsible and would have meant a serious crisis for european agriculture. good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy. agriculture must be preserved to ensure that the half billion europeans can still eat 'made in europe' throughout this century.
in writing. the two key words are 'equity' and 'flexibility'. the new cap is fairer because it distributes agricultural aid more evenly. it is also more flexible and will allow aid to be redistributed to sectors in difficulty, such as livestock farming. the new cap is not perfect, but it is a plus for european agriculture and will help to avoid the worst. we would have liked even more equity with a lower ceiling and a stronger degressivity, but we were, among other things, isolated when it came to fighting for the dairy sector or the ceiling on aid which i would have liked to see lower. but let us be clear: to vote against this new cap would have been irresponsible and would have meant a serious crisis for european agriculture. good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy. agriculture must be preserved to ensure that the half billion europeans can still eat 'made in europe' throughout this century.
in writing. we would have liked even more equity with a lower ceiling and a stronger degressivity, but we were, among other things, isolated when it came to fighting for the dairy sector or the ceiling on aid, which i would have liked to have been lower. but let us be clear: to vote against this new cap would have been irresponsible and would have meant a serious crisis for european agriculture. good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy. agriculture must be preserved to ensure that the half billion europeans can still eat 'made in europe' throughout this century.
in writing. - for the first time, the european parliament took part in the decision-making process on agricultural policy. unfortunately, that has not proved to be a guarantee of greening. in fact, farmers no longer have to comply with all existing directives on sustainable pesticide use, water management and nature conservation to qualify for income support. the commission's proposal to set aside a compulsory 7% of a farmer's area for nature, water and landscape management was reduced to 5%. in addition, the measures to be taken for greening were also elaborated. there's no breeding rotation, either, and i'm not going to. instead, mandatory crop diversification is introduced, but that too has been eroded. farmers who fail to comply with the reduced obligations may only lose part of their support if they have been in breach for several years. this reform misses the opportunity to give a boost to sustainable agriculture and to give agriculture a role not only in food production but also in landscape conservation and restoration, water policy, soil protection, biodiversity and animal welfare. the consumer pays three times: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the reduction of the use of pesticides, the reduction of the use of pesticides and the reduction of the use of pesticides. for these reasons i voted against the compromise reached.
in writing. the two key words are 'equity' and 'flexibility'. the new cap is fairer because it distributes agricultural aid more evenly. it is also more flexible and will allow aid to be redistributed to sectors in difficulty, such as livestock farming. the new cap is not perfect, but it is a plus for european agriculture and will help to avoid the worst. we would have liked even more equity with a lower ceiling and a stronger degressivity, but we were isolated when it came to fighting for the dairy sector or the ceiling on aid, which i would have liked to have been lower. but let us be clear: to vote against this new cap would have been irresponsible and would have meant a serious crisis for european agriculture. good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy. agriculture must be preserved to ensure that the half billion europeans can still eat 'made in europe' throughout this century.
in writing. this proposal, adopted in response to the prolonged economic and financial crisis, aims to ensure the proper implementation of cohesion policy programmes and concerns the member states most affected by the crisis. i believe that cohesion policy has emerged as an investment instrument necessary to generate growth and jobs effectively by responding precisely to the investment needs of the regions, thus contributing not only to reducing disparities between them but also to boosting the economy and enabling the development of the union as a whole. i am concerned that some member states are unable to achieve these objectives because of the crisis and therefore believe that exceptional measures must be adopted, limited in time, which allow for maximum and optimal use of the structural funds and cohesion fund appropriations available at the end of the programming period.
in writing. i congratulate all those who are strongly involved in these reports, which are of great importance for the future of the european union. the long negotiations have resulted in the release of about one third of the community budget for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. this result confirms the role of cohesion policy as the european union's main policy for investment, growth and job creation, and the implementation of eu policies. in this context, it is important to work in coordination with local and regional partners as they are responsible for the successful implementation of programmes and projects for the region. i have supported my political group in its fight to ensure better conditions for smes.
in writing. support the european social fund, the union's main tool for social inclusion through integration into the labour market and a key lever in times of crisis, benefiting both workers and jobseekers. since 2008, the crisis has highlighted the need for this type of intervention supported by the esf. more than ever, the three member states mentioned above, namely france, italy and spain, should be able to benefit from the increase in their esf allocation by supporting employment for all through easier access to employment, promoting return to employment after a period of inactivity and supporting the employability of workers (training for adaptation to new working methods and/or a new job). for all these reasons, your rapporteur recommends that the proposal be adopted without amendment and as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the agreement concluded between the european union and the republic of kiribati. this is an equitable partnership. in exchange for a financial contribution, the eu will be able to exploit the fishery resources of the republic of kiribati through its community vessels. the agreement provides a partnership framework which will ensure the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources. in addition, the fisheries sector is essential for the country's economy and development. agreements with foreign ships generate 20 to 30% of national revenues. the country has one of the lowest gdp per capita in the region and is thus one of the least developed acp states. this agreement is therefore essential for the development of the country but also for ensuring that the fisheries sector is a sustainable sector.
in writing. the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) with kiribati provides for fishing opportunities in the territorial waters of kiribati for spanish, french and portuguese vessels from 16 september 2012 to 15 september 2015. i agree with the rapporteur that this protocol is, in more than one way, likely to undermine the efforts of the small island developing states (sids) to manage the exploitation of tuna resources and increase the revenues that these resources can generate. it does not, under these conditions, contribute to the sustainable management of tuna resources in the western and eastern pacific ocean.
in writing. the european parliament has sent a clear message to citizens and member states. the most democratic european institution should be able to choose where it wants to sit. i fully support the report by fox and häfner. parliament would be more efficient and more rational if it sat in one place. the cost of living together between brussels and strasbourg is more than eur 150 million per year. these funds could be injected into research and innovation, which would boost our growth, or into youth employment, support for smes, and aid for the most deprived. a single seat in brussels would facilitate relations with the other european institutions. there are savings to be made, especially in these times of crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fox report and therefore in favour of a thorough impact assessment of the introduction of a single seat. i am against throwing taxpayers' money out the window. all unnecessary expenditure, which is harmful to the environment, must be banned. once the impact analysis has been carried out and a prospectus has been drawn up of what the new responsibilities of the various entities in the various countries might be, parliament will be responsible for choosing its future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, before this meeting with the commissioners began, we said to ourselves that if we did not take into account the presence at the meeting of those who are obliged to be there because they are associated with the report, there would be no big world left. i have indeed observed this, and i would therefore like to thank those who are not involved in the proceedings here, but who nevertheless do us the honour of being here. i am not joking, because my first disappointment with horizon 2020 is the gap between its size and the lack of interest in research and innovation issues, apart from the speeches, in the political class. it's something that worries me, i can't hide it from you. the commission's ambition was to spend 100 billion over seven years, which would have been a relatively modest but nevertheless ambitious step forward. we didn't get it. you and we have tried to get a budget higher than what we have been spending so far, namely to get the 100 billion. we are now at about 70 billion and i have to say that the responsibility lies with the council and the political groups which have accepted the budgetary perspectives for the next seven years. if we had to structure the program ourselves, we would probably have structured it quite well, as you have done. we therefore agree quite well with the commission's approach. i would like to stress that it was essential to focus our research and innovation efforts, in particular, on the societal challenges that lie ahead, and i think the societal challenges selected by the commission are the right ones. whether it is health or food, whether it is climate or the environment, whether it is the cohesion of our societies, their security - let us say that too - particularly in the energy sector, we are very pleased that 85 per cent of research expenditure in this area is now devoted to what can be called, in general terms, the energy transition - an area in which i believe europe can claim global leadership positions. if we want to be a competitive continent, it is by creating value, by innovating, by being at the forefront of innovation in these societal challenges that we can achieve this, not by reducing our costs everywhere, especially in the fields of labour and social protection. the third point concerns the question of access to research results and data. first of all, when public authorities finance research, it is normal that the results should be freely available to all. in general, i would be rather concerned that if we want societies to innovate, we need knowledge to circulate. we are increasingly in a situation where knowledge is 'commoditised' and therefore protected by intellectual property protection rules which have become an inhibitor of innovation. i am far from the idea that we should innovate and then make everything we do available for free to everyone, including our competitors. i am not naive, but i think that today, on the line between closed innovation and open innovation, the cursor is far too much on the side of protection and far too little on the side of information flow. we have been able to change this cursor during these negotiations - not quite to our liking, but it is progress. the fourth element concerns the question of social innovation. for example, we now waste 30% of the food we produce in europe. i don't think anyone here is happy about this situation. if we want to drastically reduce this waste of food - which is also a waste of energy and a waste of resources - it is obvious that we must provide the necessary innovations with a technological dimension but, above all, with a social dimension. how do we organise our food production and distribution systems? how do we organize our cities and our countryside to reduce food waste? in this respect, both social and technological innovation are necessary and i would really encourage the commission to take account, to the extent it is able, of the social innovation dimension in all areas that are part of the programme - where, of course, it makes sense. the fifth dimension i want to mention is that of small and mediumsized enterprises. many of us say when we talk about smes: "that's great! smes are innovating! smes create jobs! it is the smes that must be favoured". i find that this is often the case in the speech, until the point where you have to put money on the table. on this point we are rather disappointed, because while the nominal objective of devoting about 20% of the programme to actors who are smes is uniformly accepted, the fact of limiting to ringfencer, to speak french of money to smes was one of the hard points of the negotiation. in the end, we got 4% of the programme devoted to this. that's good. that's good. i welcome the fact that the management of this money is entrusted to a commission agency and i stress this point , thus proving that it is possible for the commission to work with smes; i would like to say that it is possible to find people in the commission who speak the language of smes, who have a way of working that is suited to smes. i think it is extremely important that we have made this agency the vehicle for the money we want to spend on smes. the last element - and probably the most troubling - concerns the question of leverage. today, with public money scarce, it is important that each euro spent has a maximum leverage effect, i.e. that it mobilises private investment and investment in the member states to the maximum. today, with the rules of participation you are about to vote on, the leverage of horizon 2020 will be weaker than that of its predecessor, the seventh framework programme. i think we should have done the exact opposite, which is why we will not vote on this part of the report.
first of all, mr president, i think we should thank the commission for the fight it has waged to finally release the budget available for horizon 2020. i think that we as a parliament and as a commission can be particularly proud of the fact that we have once again managed to reserve a substantial part of this amount for top-level research in the european union. we would naturally like to see a little more ambition from the member states, including a real shift in priorities towards innovation, because innovation will be needed to get back on track with economic growth in europe. the important thing about this programme is that we keep the focus on cutting-edge research, that we can bring together the best researchers there and in that way also deliver cutting-edge products back to the market. we really need that kind of industrial leadership in europe. in addition, cooperation with smes is extremely important in order to involve smaller companies in this type of research project and to make real use of their expertise. of course, the bureaucracy must be eliminated there too, as the commission has promised, in order to make it possible to invest this money in a good way. i think it is now time for the member states to join this european strategy. it is also time to pool resources with them and look at how we can effectively link economic growth with more and better innovation.
madam president, the horizon 2020 research programme raises a lot of hopes, as we have seen, but also some concerns. let me focus on two concerns. the first concerns israel's participation in this programme - which i am not opposed to at all - which has caused controversy because, on the one hand, israel enjoys a privileged status as the only non-european state to participate in this programme, with a budget of several hundred million euros, even as the policy of colonisation and occupation continues in palestine. but also, on the other hand, because of israel's initial refusal to endorse the european union directives prohibiting the financing and provision of loans and grants, scholarships or prizes to institutions beyond the 1967 lines. fortunately, in the last few days israel has finally agreed, for the first time, to recognise the european policy which prohibits the transfer of funds to israeli companies or institutions in the settlements, and to make proposals to the negotiators. it is crucial, commissioners, that the agreement includes a clause stating that the settlements in the west bank, east jerusalem and the golan heights are not part of the state of israel. i am particularly concerned about east jerusalem. this clause is a red line for many of us and i am writing a letter to mrs ashton today to that effect. my second concern - i will be very brief - is stem cell research. as a former dean of a faculty and director of a very large research centre, i would like to say that ethical values are at the heart of our function and our career as researchers; i have participated in all the european programmes in this field. but stem cell research today is vital - as luís paulo alves said - for the treatment of genetic diseases. if it is to be framed by ethical values, it cannot be impeded by any religious dogmatism. it is in the name of religion that some members of parliament want to block this type of research and for me, as a researcher, this is unacceptable.
president. - mr president, i am sorry to hear that you have not been able to attend the debate on the report. i think what we really need to do today as policymakers is make sure that we create the right ecosystem for entrepreneurship. we see today that too often there are still too many obstacles to the development of genuine entrepreneurship. first of all, i think there are things that every business faces, whether it's our small businesses, but also our larger businesses: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the social partners are not over-regulated, but also to ensure that the member states are able to implement structural reforms in their labour markets in order to create a more competitive environment. secondly, there is of course the activation of dormant capital. we must look at how we as the european union can remove barriers to ensure that the dormant capital that is currently sitting on the sidelines can be activated and that it can flow back to smes and mediumsized enterprises through private equity, venture capital and also loans from traditional banks. in general, i think we should also work on a change of mentality. today we see that too few people dare to take risks. we too, as policy makers, are too often focused on eliminating risk rather than encouraging risk taking. we must also work to enable the private sector to take the risks necessary to keep pace with economic growth.
i am glad that we have already had a lot of discussions this week with the european social fund on the subject of eu funding for social affairs. this new programme for employment and social innovation should help to pave the way for new innovative social policies. this is all the more true after the efforts of parliament's negotiating team and the rapporteur, jutta steinruck, whose work i would like to commend, enabled parliament to devise a structure for this programme which will bring together three existing programmes in a coherent way, with clear priorities and funding. europe must respond to the rise in unemployment, poverty and exclusion. by facilitating access to micro-credit, in particular professional mobility, europe can bring real added value and a multiplier effect to regional and national actions, whether through budgetary means or through its expertise, in particular to disseminate good practices, which are fundamental contributions of the european parliament.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. the saying comes from a former european commissioner of my party, the late willy de clercq, who once said: "you don't build a social paradise on an economic cemetery". i think that is still particularly true in the times in which europe is also today. we have done everything in recent years to ensure economic stability in europe. we are seeing the first signs of recovery from the reforms that have been implemented. but of course, at the same time, we also see the social dramas that are unfolding before our eyes. i think we should be very clear about this, namely that it was primarily europe's task to bring stability to the system in the economic field. in doing so, we have also asked member states to implement the necessary reforms to ensure that the social component of this whole story is also addressed. we see today that the member states are not doing enough to shape this social component. we see that this is not being taken seriously enough and that the focus is on purely rational saving rather than reform. for example, we see today in the country-specific recommendations that countries are lagging behind in their reforms that should give people more prospects for jobs and give them more prospects for getting back on track with economic growth in countries. and i think we should ask the countries to do something about it. i think it is also important that we as europe should show a long-term vision. we've obviously had a very difficult period that's behind us. but at the same time we have a duty to keep stressing that investment in education, for example, in childcare, in a number of other things, must make it possible to give people a new perspective for the future and ensure that the social component also remains important at member state level. the european budget, with its various instruments, plays a very important role in this. finally, i would like to mention that the debate on the portability of certain social rights, for example, is of course still important if we are to continue to operate in an internal european market, and that the debate on stabilizers at european level is actually a debate which should be conducted in a much broader context, including the debate on own resources and the like. i look forward to that, at any rate in the context of future exchanges with you, commissioner, and with the rest of this parliament.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in the dutch-speaking world, an annual report of the court of auditors is often labelled or referred to as a "blunderboek", an overview of the errors and blunders of the public authorities. where do we find those mistakes again this year? the court of auditors has found irregularities in almost one in 20 of its audits. in 29% of cases, incorrect application of tender procedures, in 22% of cases, payment of funds to final beneficiaries who were not entitled to them and in 17% of cases, incorrect declarations in the agricultural sector. where are these mistakes made? yes, in the member states. eighty per cent of all the money coming from the commission is managed by the administrations of the member states and that is where these mistakes are made. it is very sad to see that this is wrong, because in 91% of the cases the administrations of the member states knew that there were errors and could have intervened. moreover, a limited number of member states make the vast majority of the errors. eighty percent of the time! so, what do we do now? i think first and foremost an appeal to the council. i suggest you take that discharge seriously. sit down with commissioner šemeta. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal controls in the member states are properly implemented, so that these errors do not occur again and that action is taken when they do. second, the money that is wrongfully paid out must be recovered. that money must also and must not be used in the member state where the error was made. and finally - the call that has been made for centuries, the call that has been made for years to the commission, to the council and also to this european parliament - ask the finance ministers to come forward with an annual declaration that they have spent the money they have received from the european union well. we will then be able to pin them to their political responsibility and if something goes wrong, we can really call the finance ministers to order.
in writing. in voting for this report, i expressed my strong support for the three pillars proposed in this 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. in concrete terms, it is about supporting and responding to the societal challenges ahead, whether they are related to health, energy, transport, climate action or security, to boosting scientific excellence as well as our industrial leadership, particularly in biotechnology and space technologies. as we know, small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) are the economic lungs of the european union. the report will provide almost eur 70.2 billion directly to support these three key objectives, including through the allocation of concrete financial support. this programme will thus help to combat the current economic crisis, stimulate research and innovation and encourage scientific and industrial excellence. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is a major positive signal of europe's support for our recovery.
in writing. i welcome this report which allocates €70.2 billion to the framework programme for research and innovation. the programme changes will allow for better support for smes, science and for the allocation of funds for research into non-fossil energy. to face the future in an increasingly interdependent and interconnected world, we must join forces and invest in research and innovation. this programme will help the eu to become more competitive. i fully support the investments allocated to smes, which represent at least 11% of the budget. europe has a vital role to play in equalising the opportunities for entrepreneurs throughout europe. we must help those countries which have difficulty in accessing technology and knowledge. it is more than necessary to create a 'productive solidarity'.
in writing. the recovery of the european union and its competitiveness in the world is evident through research and innovation. that is why the vote this afternoon on the horizon 2020 programme for the period 2014-2020 is essential and responds to the need to look to the future. compared to the previous research programme, there has been considerable progress: the budget is increasing with an allocation of eur 70 billion; a specific budget is allocated to smes; the emphasis is on public-private partnerships and the rules are simplified; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. two reserves, though. the first is linked to the unfounded attacks on israel's participation in the horizon 2020 initiative: it ignores the fact that israel is the most active associated non-member state in european research projects and it ignores the transfer of scientific knowledge that benefits european companies, estimated at 600 million euros for the next seven years. the other reservation concerns the status quo on embryonic stem cells and the lack of real commitment by the european union to the freedom of therapeutic research.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis has revealed the weaknesses of the european production model. to ensure that europe emerges strong from this crisis and that the european economy recovers, the europe 2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation as a means of moving towards a knowledge-based economy, guaranteeing more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth. however, the economic model advocated by the europe 2020 strategy, based on high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion, will only succeed if we ensure the stability of the research and innovation system in terms of economic and human resources. in other words, a decrease in investment in r & d & i logically affects the performance of the scientific and technological system, its capacity to create knowledge, which ultimately negatively affects our competitiveness and social welfare. it is therefore absolutely essential that the funding for community research and innovation policy not only be spared the impact of budget cuts but that it be given additional resources. for this reason, and because the new programme strengthens the innovation component and extends the range of instruments available to it.
in writing. the real needs of the participating industrial players must be addressed. the most decisive measure in this respect is the introduction of an explicit limit of six months for the time limits for the actual granting of grants. time is becoming an increasingly important factor, as horizon 2020 aims to foster innovation. this is particularly true for highly innovative enterprises and smes. a shorter grant award period is also a prerequisite for attracting excellent research partners from all over the world, with internationalisation being another attraction for participating industrial players.
in writing. the eit is neither a programme nor a network: the eit is an institute. while it is true that it carries out its activities within the framework of a programme and that it forms technology and innovation networks with many different partners, this institute has an important role to play, a role which goes beyond the simple management, coordination or animation of its kics. as an institute, it should be given a very special treatment, different from that reserved for the other sections of the horizon 2020 programme. as a tool directly involved in innovation but also a vehicle for teaching, the eit makes education a fully-fledged part of the union's research and innovation policy. the eit occupies a special place in the overall framework of union policy: it is the only instrument that realizes the knowledge triangle. we must support this programme.
in writing. through the activities of the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), the eit promotes closer interaction between universities, research centres and businesses to bridge the gap between research, teaching and entrepreneurship. the aim is to increase europe's capacity for innovation. the pilot project will be implemented in the framework of the european solidarity corps (esc) and the european solidarity corps (esc) and will be implemented in the framework of the european solidarity corps (esc). they involve more than 200 partners. the experience gained so far indicates an increasing number of participants (including from industry), a satisfactory leverage effect, good rationalisation and tangible results (young start-ups, trained students, etc.).
in writing. the union is going through a difficult economic period. the challenges are growing. real answers are to be expected. if europeans want to see real smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as the 2020 strategy suggests, the european union, in partnership with all national authorities, must focus on the competitiveness of enterprises, and more particularly smes. the latter currently generate 67% of private sector jobs in europe and 58% of total turnover in the european union. despite their importance, many constraints persist, directly hindering their proper development. i therefore welcome with great enthusiasm the reports on business competitiveness and the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan, both of which stress the importance of simplifying bureaucracy while providing funds and credits that enable businesses to better meet current challenges.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the overall competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in europe is being undermined by market, institutional and policy gaps: lack of access to finance, regulatory or market constraints. as a result, european smes have lower productivity of labour and resources and grow more slowly than their counterparts in other parts of the world. in europe, they are less able than large enterprises to adapt successfully to change. the difficulties faced by smes have been exacerbated by the recent economic crisis of 2008, which has affected them disproportionately.
in writing. the future horizon 2020 programme must strengthen europe's leadership in an environment where, in many areas, it has lost ground. to achieve this, it is necessary to identify precisely the strengths of europe, but it is equally necessary to recognize and correct its weaknesses. the proposal represents a considerable step forward. it achieves an appropriate balance between the three pillars ('scientific excellence', 'industrial excellence' and 'social challenges') and, in addition to the contribution of parliament, effectively integrates the input of various stakeholders. however, much remains to be done. the rapporteur believes that the main contribution of this report can be organized along four main lines:
in writing. statistics are very useful in decision-making. the transparency and independence of statisticians is an essential prerequisite for the reliability of the statistics provided. greater transparency and independence between the european statistical system and the national statistical institutions will significantly reduce the distortion of data, which is dangerous not only for democracy but also for the economies of the member states.
in writing. reliable and accurate european statistics fulfil two key functions as a public good: they are the basis on which policy-makers take their decisions and they act as a barometer of the state of our economy and society, providing assurances to other governments and financial markets. but events in recent years have shaken public and market confidence. a 2008 eurobarometer survey found that 45% of citizens said they did not trust economic statistics, a figure almost identical to the 46% of citizens who said the opposite. this regulation is timely: we need to strengthen public confidence in statistical data. there is a saying that once statistics are politicized, they are quickly devalued. it is therefore essential to remove any political dimension from the compilation of statistics. the report proposes that member states should be prohibited from postponing the publication of periodical data.
in writing. many european citizens are now in a vulnerable situation due to the adverse effects of the economic and financial crisis. poverty, insecurity and unemployment are on the increase. the european union needs to support the social policies of the member states in order to guarantee all its citizens a fair social system that redistributes equitably the wealth created. i therefore very much welcome the programme which aims in particular to promote the voluntary geographical mobility of workers and to promote access to microfinance for young enterprises. the report also strengthens the union's policy in social areas such as the fight against exclusion and poverty, while promoting social protection and inclusion. particular attention was also paid to young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. the 'programme for social change and innovation' proposed by the commission brings together three existing programmes - progress, eures and the microfinance instrument - into a new programme. the progress financial instrument currently supports the definition and coordination of european union policy in the fields of employment, social protection and social inclusion, working conditions, anti-discrimination and gender equality. this instrument finances analysis activities, mutual learning, awareness raising and dissemination activities, as well as grants to key actors.
in writing. the sustainable environment and climate issues are crucial issues for the future of our planet. many challenges remain. i welcome the report by mrs jutta haug which provides for an instrument to finance environmental and climate action projects by public or private agencies for the period 2014-2020 to the tune of eur 3.1 billion. the objective of the life programme is to mainstream environmental and climate policy objectives into other policies. to do this, the programme will have new missions, such as the establishment of 'sub-programmes' for climate action, new integrated projects and the growing challenges in the field of resource efficiency.
in writing. for 20 years, life has been a highly successful instrument for addressing the environmental and climate challenges faced by european citizens. it is a modest but well-targeted and effective instrument, highly appreciated by local, regional and national public administrations, ngos, research institutions and smes. the results achieved by life are also very satisfactory from a budgetary point of view, with a systematically and significantly higher than average rate of implementation. i will conclude by saying that one euro invested today is 100 euros in 2050!
in writing. the action programme for taxation in the european union for the period 2014-2020 (fiscalis 2020) is helping to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. it should be remembered that tax evasion costs the governments of the european union countries about 860 billion euros and tax evasion nearly 150 billion euros. it is therefore our duty as eu representatives to react swiftly and firmly. fiscalis 2020 proposes regular exchanges of information, based on well-defined and transparent rules and operational means of communication between the different actors, which do not increase administrative constraints or burdens. the aim is to strengthen the internal market through effective tax systems and to improve the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and especially active tax avoidance through better cooperation between member states. i am indeed in favour of even more coordinated action by all eu member states to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. i support the idea of continuing the successful implementation of the previous fiscalis 2013 programme during the new eu programming period. the fiscalis 2013 programme received a very favourable assessment from all stakeholders (in particular from national tax authorities) during the mid-term review in 2010, and the national authorities have therefore requested that it be continued beyond 2013. this programme brings real european added value and responds to the european parliament's call for closer cooperation and coordination between national tax authorities in the fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and double non-taxation, as well as a reduction in administrative burdens, obstacles to the functioning of the single market and double taxation. in addition, it aims to encourage innovation and technical progress in the tax administrations of the member states and should therefore allow for greater productivity of national administrations.
in writing. the customs union is the very foundation of the european economic construction. however, the new challenges facing the eu mean that we must modernise it in order to ensure that european citizens are effectively protected against the risks posed by international trade in goods. in order to combat fraud more effectively, to safeguard intellectual property and to improve competitiveness, this report stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation with as many actors as possible: the participating countries, their customs authorities, external experts, international organisations, european union authorities such as olaf and third countries. a global approach is, in my view, the best solution.
in writing. following the decision of the conference of presidents of 16 may 2012 confirming the request of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on economic and monetary affairs to split these two programmes, the commission has amended its view to take account of the position of parliament and the council. on 29 august 2012, it adopted an amended proposal on customs 2020 and fiscalis 2020. the commission's customs 2020 proposal is based on article 33 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which calls for the european union to act in the field of customs cooperation and the union's customs union. in accordance with the proposal for a new multiannual financial framework as amended on 6 july 2012, this regulation on the customs 2020 programme contains a budgetary envelope of eur 548 080 000 (in current prices) for the period 2014-2020. i am pleased that the commission has already taken into consideration parliament's request to split the old fiscus proposal into a customs and a fiscalis programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) as regards the dates of its transposition and application and the date of repeal of certain directives (com (2013) 0680 c7-0315/2013 2013/0327 (cod)).
in writing. it is important to pursue the doha objectives of reducing subsidies that contribute to overfishing, establishing disciplines for trade-distorting agricultural subsidies, eliminating export subsidies, reducing customs duties on industrial products, simplifying customs formalities, expanding markets for dynamic services sectors and, above all, better integrating the least developed countries into the trading system. to achieve this, i am in favour of structural reform of the wto to certify a trading system based on shared rules, open, fair and non-discriminatory, which takes greater account of the role of smes and their interests. in addition, it is important to take into account the specific needs and interests of low-income developing countries during the negotiations at the 9th ministerial conference.
in writing. in this resolution, we reaffirm the absolute imperative to ensure that the principle of special and differential treatment is an integral part of each stage of the negotiations in order to take into account the varying levels of development of wto members, as set out in paragraph 44 of the doha ministerial declaration. i believe that in order to be effective, the provisions on special and differential treatment should be more precise, subject to periodic review and applied in a targeted manner. i believe that trade can be an important instrument for ensuring sustainable economic development if it is deployed gradually and intelligently, if it allows exceptions for sensitive products, if it is not exclusively export-oriented and is complemented by appropriate accompanying measures, and if it ensures that the richest do not profit from trade at the expense of the poor.
in writing. i supported this resolution. i am concerned about the decreasing number of eu citizens who are considering selfemployment in the current climate of economic uncertainty. the union and the member states should intensify their coordinated efforts to improve the entrepreneurial culture in europe and to explore the possibility of adopting specific measures and targets to increase the attractiveness of entrepreneurship, in particular for skilled workers with professional experience, in particular in sectors of strategic importance for the union. i believe, for example, that there should be a strong link between these initiatives and the commission's activities in the field of industrial policy; notes that these measures should include actions to facilitate the creation of enterprises;
in writing. the european union is currently unable to ensure its own security. but security challenges are mounting. the growing instability in some regions is translating into real threats to which coordinated and united european responses are essential. it is imperative that the union becomes the author of its own security in strategic, financial and capability terms. the report rightly stresses the importance of putting in place a white paper on european defence and security. i also believe that it is necessary to provide the esdp with a headquarters, enabling the union to significantly increase the speed with which it can set up a military operation. the present fringe of the esdp is not the budgetary constraint, on the contrary. the first obstacle is the lack of political will on the part of some heads of state. i therefore call for a small number of states with the military capacity and political will to put in place a genuine common defence policy. as the european summit in december approaches, i urge all member states to read this report carefully and to take account of all the points raised in it.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague's text because i am convinced that one of the challenges of the 21st century is to reassess and strengthen europe's role in the world and that it is time for the member states of the union to show the political will needed to make the european union an important player on the international scene and a guarantor of global security with real strategic autonomy. i believe that a change of mind on the part of the member states is necessary in order to establish a european approach in favour of a determined and effective security and defence policy.
in writing. the report provides an important basis for a european common defence policy. for efficient and effective military cooperation, it is important that member states ensure that the defence equipment they make available for joint operations is compatible. common standards and norms are essential in this respect. the fact that several member states have made substantial savings in defence spending in recent years makes it all the more important that we maximise synergies. i am also a strong supporter of enhanced cooperation in this area. let us, at the instigation of the european commission, start joint r & d projects with those partners who want to move forward. this is a win-win situation in every way.
in writing. the development of an ambitious european security and defence policy goes hand in hand with the establishment of a strong technological and industrial base. to do this, the union must further integrate its arms market. it must be able to consolidate both supply and demand at european level. the major role played by the states means that their coordination needs to be strengthened. it is also essential to further standardise, standardise and certify these products. i am convinced of the major role that the european defence agency must play in this respect. i regret, however, the lack of resources available to him. only a european approach will enable the technological and industrial base of defence to flourish in europe. to do this, europeans must succeed in getting rid of the purely national approach. the role of smes is also crucial and the european union must support them. this is a real niche for increasing economic, technological and military gains in europe.
in writing. i share the view that further progress is needed in the consolidation of the bitde and note that in view of the increasing sophistication and costs of technologies, the acute international competition and the reduction of defence budgets and production volumes, it is possible to pursue multinational defence projects. no longer can any defence industry in the member states be viable on a strictly national basis. i regret, however, that although a certain degree of concentration has been achieved in the european aerospace industries, the land and naval equipment sectors are still largely fragmented between countries.
in writing. − the european parliament and the social partners have repeatedly called for the social dimension of emu to be completed. the european commission's communication is at last taking an important first step, which must be integrated into the european semester as soon as possible. it is good that the importance of social dialogue is emphasised in order to increase the social support for socioeconomic reforms in the context of the european semester. the proposed social scoreboard includes some key indicators, such as the (youth) unemployment rate, the neet rate and the risk of poverty, which will provide a much better picture of the impact of member states' macroeconomic policies on employment and social cohesion. the european commission should therefore take social indicators into account effectively in its annual recommendations to member states as early as 2014.
in writing. the purpose of emu is to guarantee social security and a sufficient standard of living for the present and future generations. i believe it is therefore important that european citizens should be aware that the union to which they belong is capable of promoting social progress. in this respect, i welcome the commission communication 'strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union' and see it as a first step towards the establishment of a genuine social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu), but i believe that more specific proposals are needed to ensure that economic governance respects the social dimension.
author. - mr president, this emergency in bangladesh allows us to make the connection with another emergency which arose after the disaster which had struck bangladesh following the collapse - which we remember very well - of this building in the plaza. i would like to reiterate here, before we get to the point at hand, that we are extremely concerned about the follow-up to this case and that we ask in particular that, after the rana plaza accident, companies, in particular european companies, keep their promises, particularly with regard to the agreement on fire protection and building safety in bangladesh. the government and the international labour organization have agreed and i think it is time to follow what is happening on this side a little bit. second point, extremely important: there is an almost insurrectionary atmosphere, with conflicts between the government and the opposition, in preparation for the elections in january 2014. mr president, i would like to say how much we want bangladesh - which has been led by a democratically elected civilian government - to continue on this path. i refer you to the text on the current strikes and the rise in violence by the opposition, which we wish to... (the president cut the speaker off)
author. - mr president, fifa president joseph blatter met yesterday in zurich with the international trade union confederation and the president of the german football federation. their conclusion was that the situation in qatar of workers preparing for the 2022 world cup was unacceptable. that's their conclusion. at the same time, they are calling on qatar to act and improve their working conditions. this world cup, which is starting under somewhat gloomy auspices, could indeed, in my opinion, be an opportunity for migrant workers in qatar. these migrant workers, who make up 90 percent of the workers in qatar, are subjected to a completely unlikely system: the "kafala" system, a sponsorship system in which a patron buys you a visa that you have to pay back from your salary, and who holds your passport. it's not just like that in qatar, it's like that in most of the gulf countries and the emirates. there is a real problem here with modern slavery. if today, with this action led by both fifa and our european officials within fifa, we manage, by the time of the world cup, to change the conditions of migrant workers from qatar and the gulf countries, i think we will have definitely won the game!
mr president, we are now discussing the situation of foreign workers in qatar, which has been criticised for the appalling working conditions for foreign workers. the islamic qatar is in the international spotlight because of the 2022 world cup. that is why we are having this debate today. but we should actually look at the situation in the entire arab world. is there anyone in this room who thinks that the working conditions for foreign workers are fundamentally better in countries like saudi arabia or the united arab emirates or kuwait or yemen for example? in all these countries, migrant workers are treated in a degrading way, and in many cases it is no exaggeration to speak of modern slavery. it's a paradox of size. for many years, the member states of the european union have been systematically accused of racism and discrimination by the arab world as a simple explanation for the disproportionately high unemployment of north african immigrants. in fact, from that angle, terms such as islamophobia are being used, both fittingly and inappropriately. we would be led to believe that things like racism and discrimination are european sins. but what do we see now? the countries where there is real discrimination and systematic ill-treatment of foreign workers are arab countries. and i know, mr president, that it may be a politically incorrect statement, but it is a factually correct statement.
author. - mr president, the resolution concerns the case of five people of european origin, i would say, who were arrested, two of them, and killed, the other three, during a raid by bolivian special forces on 16 april 2009. i say european origin because, in fact, of the five persons whose names appear in the resolution, several are of hungarian origin but were born in bolivia. the whole thing is still pretty fuzzy, since the main accusation was that they were part of a terrorist network that was aimed at assassinating the bolivian president. everything is fuzzy in this case. were they mercenaries? where did they come from? still, among them was mr. dwyer, who was probably - i say probably because even about that, there's doubt - killed in that attack. he was of irish origin and the irish government was rightly concerned about the circumstances of this attack and is calling for an international investigation. the resolution also seeks to shed light on what happened on 16 april and to ensure that the conditions of detention and trial of the two survivors - előd tóásó and mario tadić - are respected and in accordance with the rule of law. moreover, we are not today bringing the government of mr morales to trial, we have no prejudice, but we would like justice and clarity to be given in these disputes.
mr president, i would like to delete the words 'and take concrete measures' in article 4, because i do not think it is the responsibility of the european external action service to take concrete measures itself.
over 75% of the world's fish stocks are overfished and industrial fishing techniques are also affecting other marine life. the european parliament will vote tomorrow on a number of texts which could make european fisheries a lot more sustainable. one of the dossiers before us, the arsenis report, concerns the rules applicable to deep-sea fishing. deep-sea bottom trawling does a lot of damage to the seabed, coral and other marine life than the species that are actually being fished. an amendment to ban deep-sea fishing with bottom trawls at depths greater than 600 metres is causing a stir. however, it is extremely important that this proposal should be fully supported tomorrow. the prohibition on deep-sea fishing affects only a dozen fishing companies that use this technique. the seabed is being scraped with trawls, wreaking ecological havoc. however, there are less aggressive alternatives. the belgian social democrats support a ban on the use of deep-sea trawls.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would first like to add to this thanks to those of my colleagues who have worked with me - the fictitious rapporteurs of this report - but also to those of the other committees who have given us very sensible opinions, and in particular those of the committee on foreign affairs. south sudan is the last state in africa to gain its independence. three years ago, in january, he expressed this in a referendum. on july 9, 2011, it declared its independence and five days later, the united nations general assembly accepted it as a member. the rapidity of this membership is not accidental. in reality, this accession to independence was supported by the entire international community following a 2005 peace treaty, the comprehensive peace agreement, which ended the long-running civil war in sudan, which had inflamed the entire region. so here we are. we have a new country that threatens, of course, to be a fragile state, that has an oil resource that represents 88% of its economy, but that has nothing else, that has a neighbor - sudan - with which, of course, it doesn't get along very well because it broke away. for the last two or three years we have been witnessing tensions between sudan and south sudan, oil stops that are hurting either country. this has led the international community, the united nations, the united states, the troika - that is, the united states, britain and norway - to create forums, as in washington in 2013, to try to help this south sudan not to go bankrupt and to solve its difficulties. it's a state that's not doing very well. 50% of the population is below the poverty line. the dependence on oil, as i said, is absolute; there is no diversification of the economy. the cotonou agreements have not yet been signed, so it is difficult for the european union to help him. there is a corruption that is taking hold - we don't have the exact figures - that is absolutely endemic. there is no social safety net, infant and maternal mortality rates are the highest in the world. 48% of girls are married against their will between 15 and 19 years of age or younger. less than 30% of girls attend primary school. the army is not integrated, there are militias. there are extrajudicial executions, torture, rape of populations, harassment of journalists and human rights defenders. and then there is the real problem of language, because there are 60 different languages and dialects and english is the official language, and the people don't understand it. this report is a recommendation because if this country goes down, the whole horn of africa will again be destabilized and go to war. there are two paragraphs which summarise the recommendations of this report for good governance, the fight for human rights, etc. these are paragraphs 9 and 11. i wish we would refer to it because it's really very complicated. i would like to say that today the european union has invested 830 million in south sudan, which is huge. 830 million is almost a billion and we're not talking about it in this chamber. this is a country that needs to move towards a democratic transition. we must continue to help him but we must move towards more education, more infrastructure and good governance, and be friends with south sudan, but also guide him more firmly in the direction of a governance that would be free from the corruption that is currently prevailing.
in writing. the strategic importance of the automotive sector for the european economy and prosperity is undeniable. the global crisis, however, has brought the sector into the eye of the storm. with cars 2020, the european commission is launching its vision. the european parliament welcomes the commission's initiative but urges it to take concrete political action as a matter of urgency. cars 2020 is still too lacking in many aspects and too free of obligations. in particular, parliament called for a solution to the problem of overcapacity, a coherent approach to restructuring and specific measures for smes. parliament also stressed the importance of research and development and smart regulation. in my region, too, such efforts are needed. the closures of ford and opel hit flanders very hard. however, we continue to believe that a competitive manufacturing industry is crucial to flanders' innovative strength and prosperity. as indicated in the salk strategy (limburg action plan) of the flemish government, it is essential that the manufacturing industry continues to evolve towards a smart, innovative and sustainable manufacturing industry with higher added value in order to remain competitive. it is therefore important to respond to this european story.
the rapporteur, mr berlinguer, has already outlined the general aims of this programme. we have been meeting and negotiating with the council and the commission for over a year and a half. i am therefore pleased that we are finally able to discuss this report on justice in this plenary and then put it to the vote. this report, this justice programme, does not set out a new judicial framework for the european union, but only a framework within which judicial cooperation can be optimized and improved. the main objective of this programme is to promote cooperation between national legal systems and to improve understanding across national legal systems. there is talk of creating and promoting a common judicial culture. i would like to stress that this must not be about creating a european unity sausage. i don't think that's what this is about. it is a matter of promoting knowledge of european union law, of knowing that more than 60 per cent of the legislation currently voted on in the member states is in fact the product of this european parliament, of european legislation. we must also be able to implement them correctly. it is therefore important that magistrates and all judicial professions have access to programmes to improve knowledge of european law in order to keep up to date with what is being adopted here. it is therefore of course important that, once european legislation is in place, it can be implemented optimally at member state level. cooperation between the different legal systems in the national states should also be promoted. there must be better access to existing programmes. one of the improvements of this new framework for the justice programme is that it will seek to reduce bureaucracy where it has been found too often in the past that there was a high threshold for potential interested parties in new programmes and initiatives and that it is very difficult to take initiatives yourself because some bureaucratic hurdle has to be taken. the aim is to simplify procedures, which i think is a good thing. less red tape is a good thing. one of the improvements we have also sought is to increase transparency throughout the system so that citizens and all interested parties can better see what kind of programmes the funds are going to - with a summary of the purpose of each initiative - and how much money is going to them. i think it is a very good thing that there is more transparency. finally, i would like to thank mr berlinguer and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation they have shown during the past year and a half of meetings and negotiations with the council and the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for achieving a good compromise. we should not forget that the key stakeholders for the implementation of the policies supported by both programmes are mainly civil society, ngos and networks, and they are waiting for us so that they can start to work. agreeing on funding is just the beginning of a long and complex process. you are about to give your agreement to the compromise text so that we can start implementing the 2014 budget without any further delays.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank this parliament for a very positive and encouraging debate. i can assure members that, once you have voted on the two regulations tomorrow, the council will do its utmost to ensure that they are adopted before the end of the year. these are important acts which will ensure the flow of funds for a range of measures which will be of direct benefit to europe’s citizens. i would therefore like to thank once again the rapporteurs and all those who have made it possible for us to reach an agreement. once the regulations enter into force, the commission can begin to prepare for the implementation of funding programmes early next year and we can quickly begin to see the impact of the programmes across a range of areas.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank the members for their contributions to this debate. i am sensitive to the criticism of colleagues who advocate respect for the sovereignty of the member states and the economical and efficient use of taxpayers' money. these concerns are my concerns. i would not like my name to be mentioned in the report on the justice programme if it does not explicitly refer to the effective and correct application of the principle of subsidiarity. the explanatory memorandum also expressly states that the legal traditions of the member states are respected. this programme is about promoting cooperation between member states and not about creating yet more european unity. in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent properly, the use of available resources is evaluated on the basis of a list of clear indicators. the european parliament should also assume its responsibility in this respect and should therefore review the commission's annual monitoring report as well as the interim evaluation report, which should be available by june 2018. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the public list of projects receiving grants and the brief summary of their activities should increase transparency. in any event, provision is made for the detection and investigation of irregularities or possible irregularities in the expenditure of funds, the recovery of sums wrongly paid and the imposition of administrative and financial penalties in accordance with the financial regulation.
mr president, the amendment is on the ballot. it is simply a matter of updating a paragraph which mentioned a meeting that was to take place and which did not take place. it's just factual, so i don't think it's going to be an issue. the oral amendment is accepted.
in writing. the process of globalisation has implications for the sovereignty of states, political regimes, law and, therefore, justice. it is therefore important to set up framework programmes to facilitate collaboration and cooperation between member states. the new justice programme aims to promote judicial cooperation and training and to guarantee access to justice for all. improving knowledge of european law is a key issue if we want better application of decisions which are legislated. this will strengthen the rights of european citizens.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice allowing the free movement of persons. to this end, the union should adopt measures to develop judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and to encourage and support action by member states in the field of crime prevention. in pursuing the establishment of a european area of justice, respect for fundamental rights and common principles such as non-discrimination, equality between women and men, effective access to justice for all, the rule of law and the existence of an effective independent judiciary should be ensured.
in writing. the rights, equality and citizenship programme 2014-2020 aims to meet the objectives of the stockholm programme by streamlining its funding instruments. to this end, the report proposes the merger of three former programmes, namely the fundamental rights and citizenship programme, daphne ii and the anti-discrimination and diversity and gender equality sections of the employment and social solidarity programme (progress). the aim of this report is to promote the rights of european citizenship and to support certain fundamental principles such as the principle of non-discrimination, equality between men and women, the protection of personal data and the rights of children and consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to simplify the financing instruments, to consolidate data and to make procedures more efficient.
in writing. i strongly support the rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020. at present, there is still too much discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in europe. this programme is fighting against racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance. it promotes the rights of disabled people, gender equality, the rights of the child, the exercise of the rights deriving from union citizenship, etc. citizens still face too many obstacles when they want to exercise their rights. this programme will increase awareness of union law and policies, promoting the effective, comprehensive and coherent implementation and application of union instruments and policies in the member states, as well as their monitoring and evaluation. the foundation of our european political system cannot be based on ignorance, especially since all the decisions taken at this level have a direct impact on the well-being of each citizen.
in writing. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. everyone in the union must be able to enjoy the rights conferred on him by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty on european union. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, has become binding throughout the union, sets out the fundamental rights and freedoms which citizens of the union can rely on. these rights should be promoted and respected. the full enjoyment of those rights, as well as of the rights deriving from international conventions to which the union is a party, should be guaranteed.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 55/2008 provides for autonomous trade preferences ('the pca') for the republic of moldova by removing all tariff duties on industrial products and improving access to the european union market for agricultural products. it provides that the pca are to apply until 31 december 2015. the application of the regulation introducing the pca after 1 january 2013 depends on the successful outcome of certain procedures within the world trade organisation (wto). the european union has initiated these procedures but the date for their completion is not yet known. pending the outcome of the wto procedures, it is therefore important to ensure that trade flows from the republic of moldova can continue without interruption until 31 december 2015. it is also necessary to ensure legal certainty for economic operators to continue to import in accordance with the provisions of the regulation introducing the apas. it is therefore essential to provide that those pcas apply without interruption until their expiry date as set out in council regulation (ec) no 55/2008.
in writing. − the eu stands up for the rights of minorities and disadvantaged groups, but the bottom line is that the emphasis is on strategic trade considerations. by denying the right of self-determination and the rights of the people of western sahara, the eu is becoming more of a cause of the conflict between rabat and the sahrawi people than a solution. in december 2011, the european parliament blocked an earlier version of the fisheries agreement with morocco, precisely because it violated the right to self-determination. this statement followed the line of the un general assembly and security council, the international court of justice and the african union. we should have followed the example of other countries, such as the united states, which have included an exception for western sahara in their agreements with morocco. moreover, there is only one reporting obligation for morocco on the respect of international law and human rights in relation to the sahrawi. anyone who knows anything about morocco's human rights record knows that the country does not have the greatest credibility in this regard. as the winner of the nobel peace prize, which she was awarded exactly one year ago, i would have expected the eu to have a little more backbone.
in writing. i welcome this agreement, which was negotiated on the basis of the european parliament's recommendations when the previous commission proposal was rejected in 2011, and which strengthens our relations with morocco. this proposal is beneficial to both parties. it will enable sustainable fisheries management, create local jobs, modernise the fishing industry and serve the interests of the local population, including that of western sahara. in addition, it contains an obligation for morocco to comply with democratic principles and human rights, and a suspension clause if these principles are violated. the new protocol will increase the union's access to fish stocks by 33% while reducing its expenditure by 17% compared to the 2011 proposal. this agreement will support morocco in its political and economic reforms. finally, let us not forget the important role that morocco plays in ensuring stability in the region.
in writing. the european parliament approved this afternoon, by 310 votes to 201, the fisheries agreement between morocco and the european union, an agreement rejected in 2011. two years of efforts and compromise have thus been rewarded by this massive vote in favour of a privileged and strengthened partnership. i have tried to get my group to support this agreement, but i must admit that i have not succeeded. the saharawi conflict was invited into the debate, serving as a pretext for some to punish morocco by voting against the text. but how can we turn our backs on decades of constructive cooperation and dialogue? it would be completely irresponsible to sanction a country that is setting an example, that is making a successful democratic transition in a region that is constantly in turmoil. no one underestimates the issue of western sahara, but solving the problem with a fisheries agreement is absolutely illusory and we will achieve it even less by weakening our partnership with morocco. i am glad to see that the pragmatists in this parliament have not followed the arguments of those who, in the name of the western sahara conflict, wanted to freeze all cooperation with morocco. the european parliament has shown good sense and consistency in this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because if the required conditions are not met, the agreement will be suspended, which is an important guarantee that justifies my choice. after the european parliament refused last december to approve the one-year extension of the fisheries protocol with morocco, which was due to expire on 27 february 2012, the commission started negotiations for the conclusion of a new protocol, which was submitted for approval. the two sides negotiated with full regard for developments in the european parliament and agreed that the new text should aim to respond to the criticisms and guidance expressed in the fisheries committee report and in the resolution adopted in parallel, which called for ensuring that the agreement is mutually beneficial and based on economic, social and environmental sustainability.
in writing. in order to ensure that the health and safety of workers against chemicals is protected as well as the protection of the environment and society as a whole, i voted in favour of this report to allow the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify convention no 170 on chemicals for adoption as soon as possible.
in writing. safety at work is a crucial point for the well-being of the worker and of society as a whole. the use of chemicals at work has short and long-term effects on the health of workers and it is therefore essential that eu member states ratify the international labour organisation convention of 1990 on the safety of chemicals at work (convention no 170). this convention ensures better protection for workers in sectors handling chemicals. moreover, convention no 170 not only provides for greater protection for workers but also for the environment and society as a whole.
in writing. i support the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the union, chemicals convention no 170 as regards the parts falling within the union's competence. this convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole, in order to guarantee health and safety at work. i encourage the member states to ratify the convention as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, so that the european union as a whole can ratify the protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms which has not yet entered into force. this ratification will, among other things, improve the exchange of information between member states, help to combat arms trafficking, terrorism and organised crime groups and harmonise at european level the licensing and licensing criteria for the export and import of firearms.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which authorises the council to conclude, on behalf of the european union, an additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. the protocol will be the first comprehensive instrument to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. it will establish a framework and a set of high-level minimum standards for all states parties and also encourage cooperation among states to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition.
in writing. four member states have not yet signed or acceded to the protocol: 18 eu member states have signed the protocol, and 16 member states are contracting parties. the ratification of the protocol by the european union will make the provisions of the protocol legally binding for all member states within the limits of european competence. the protocol aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. it advocates the criminalization of the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition and the falsification or erasure of the marking of firearms, as well as the attempted or facilitated commission of such an offence, subject to the different legal traditions of the states parties. it provides for measures to confiscate illicitly manufactured or trafficked weapons and measures to prevent the illicit reactivation of deactivated firearms.
in writing. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, it was obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation, to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in the lists of acceding countries in order to agree on mutually satisfactory compensation to offset the increased consolidated rights and the resulting material losses. such compensation is necessary if the adoption of the external tariff regime of the union leads to an increase in duties beyond the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto, while 'duly taking into account the reductions in customs duties on the same tariff line made by other constituent entities of the customs union at the time of the establishment of that union'.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's hormones are not used in the production of meat. a disagreement over the european union's ban on hormone-treated beef has long been a point of contention between the union and the united states. however, on 13 may 2009, the two parties signed a memorandum of understanding, paving the way for a final resolution of this "hormone beef dispute". a solution acceptable to both parties was a gradual lifting of the us sanctions on certain products of european agriculture in return for the opening of an autonomous tariff quota with zero duty for high-quality meat from non-hormone-treated bovine animals. the memorandum led to the lifting of sanctions and the increase to 45 000 tonnes of the autonomous tariff quota with zero duty for high-quality beef, on the basis of the most favoured nation principle.
in writing. i welcome the renewal of the partnership agreement concluded between the european union and côte d'ivoire. this is an equitable partnership. in exchange for a financial contribution, the union will be able to exploit fishery resources through its community vessels. the agreement provides a framework for partnership which will promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources. the new protocol authorises eu vessels to fish in ivorian waters and provides for financial aid of eur 680 000 per year, of which eur 257 500 per year will be allocated to support the fisheries sector. this aid will have to be accompanied by increased controls on the effective use of the funds paid and on illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted for my distinguished colleague mr cottigny. i approve this fisheries protocol between the european union and côte d'ivoire, which is beneficial for both parties and for the fishermen in the area. the agreement is a vehicle for job and wealth creation, which should be supported. the european parliament will, however, remain vigilant on the quality of aid to the ivorian employment sector and calls on the european commission to strengthen controls on the effective use of the funds paid and on illegal fishing. we would also like to be informed of meetings and events concerning the implementation of the agreement, and to have a table of sectoral aid, so that we can follow up on activities.
in writing. article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that specific measures may be adopted to assist regions which suffer from economic handicaps due to their geographical situation. i therefore welcome this report which renews for a period of seven years the autonomous tariff quotas of the union on the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands. support for the fisheries sector, which is vital for employment, is essential, especially in these times of crisis.
in writing. the canary islands are an outermost region. the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural situation of these regions, characterised by their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a limited number of products, seriously undermines their development. specific measures may be adopted to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties to the abovementioned regions, without, however, compromising the integrity and coherence of the union's legal order, in particular the internal market and common policies. in the light of the consultation of interested parties and the formal request submitted by the spanish authorities, it is appropriate to maintain the same zero-duty tariff quotas for imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period from 2014 to 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of this request. the danish authorities argue that the european wind turbine manufacturing sector is severely affected by changes in the structure of international trade, which result in a significant reduction of the union market share. demand for renewable energy, including wind power, will increase significantly, but markets will change. while the wind sector was dominated by europe until 2006 and until recently experienced growth equally shared between europe, asia and the united states, today we are seeing a rise in demand in asia and north america, a development that will be experienced by south america in the future and africa in the longer term. manufacturing and maintenance activities will move to where demand is expressed and to regions with rapid economic growth. due to the high transport costs of the large parts of their wind turbines and also in order to benefit from significantly cheaper labour, european producers are therefore forced to bring their production closer to the most dynamic end-user markets in order to remain competitive and secure their market position. as a result, production started to gradually migrate outside the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the negotiation of a strategic partnership agreement between the european union and canada. the text is intended first of all to recall how fundamental it is, and this before any negotiation, that conditionality clauses relating to human rights and democracy be established in this partnership. it also called for this trade and economic agreement to be made with the full participation of civil society and the various stakeholders such as the european parliament and the canadian parliament and their joint parliamentary delegation. finally, the report calls for this partnership to be concluded as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome this report with great enthusiasm, which aims to encourage the european union to intensify its negotiations with canada in order to reach a strategic partnership agreement as soon as possible. the europeans see canada as a key economic and strategic partner. we share the same interests, values, and standards in many areas. i particularly welcome the fact that the report makes direct reference to the need to put a stamp of honour on democracy, respect for human rights and the importance of conveying them.
in writing. i stress that any agreement between the union and third countries must contain reciprocal conditionality clauses of a political nature on human rights and democracy, so as to reaffirm together the mutual commitment to uphold these values, whatever the situation of human rights protection in the countries concerned; appropriate safeguards are put in place to ensure that the suspension mechanism is not abused by either party. conditionality must be included in the strategic partnership agreement with canada in order to ensure the consistency of the common approach defined by the european union in this area.
in writing. the financial crisis has highlighted systemic weaknesses in our market infrastructure. it is our duty to react accordingly and to take note of our past mistakes. i am in favour of a recovery and resolution framework for non-banks. the report stresses the importance of drawing up european legislation based on the principles adopted at international level. this will allow competent authorities to monitor appropriately developed financial health indicators and to intervene early when an entity is in financial difficulty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which deals specifically with ccps and dcts as the main critical market infrastructures that need to be subject to strong recovery and resolution measures as a matter of priority. it also recognises the existence of many other entities that are non-bank financial institutions, such as insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems. however, work on these areas at international level is not yet completed or is still to be examined and evaluated. the financial crisis has revealed how integrated the global financial system is and how contagious a failure in a risk management procedure in a major market player can be. as part of the global effort to strengthen the resilience of the system, all market participants need to understand better how to operate or orderly shut down their business in a stressed situation.
in writing. the space industry is one of the key drivers of our growth. with an annual turnover of over eur 6.5 billion, thousands of highly skilled jobs and a multitude of related services, the space sector is now a major player in research and innovation and the wider economy. the report also proposes a number of measures to strengthen the coordination of space activities between the union and the member states, with the stated aim of making the sector as efficient as possible in the future. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. today, many jobs depend on space companies. these companies are dependent on public investment. space and innovation are 'long-cycle' areas, so investment is low. the union should promote investment in innovation and research, which are engines of growth and jobs. in addition, strengthening our competitiveness in the space industry would strengthen our identity on the international political stage. i therefore welcome this report, which aims to establish a coherent regulatory framework, support research and innovation and strengthen cooperation between the union, the member states and esa.
in writing. the space industry, although a niche sector with only 35 000 highly skilled workers, generates a consolidated annual turnover of over eur 6.5 billion. a multitude of services depend directly or indirectly on space technology. space is also a driver of growth and innovation. many sectors outside space are benefiting from the technical breakthroughs made in the space industry. the european economy plays a leading role in many areas (satellite communication services, for example). the first priority is to strengthen the coordination of space activities of the european union, esa and the member states in order to avoid duplication of effort and pool efforts. the union ultimately needs a genuine internal market for the space industry, with a coherent legal framework, without however aiming at a complete harmonisation of the legal provisions of the member states. this ridge path is one of the main challenges for the future.
in writing. europeans are in the digital age, with high technology, and expect immediate and enhanced interconnection across europe. it is in the european union's interest to live up to their expectations. digital is a source of growth and jobs. it is therefore essential for the union to consolidate this market at european level by providing a clear legislative basis in this area, respecting the principle of free competition. it is in this context that i welcome the report on cloud computing. the promotion of this type of technology will enable all european citizens and businesses, and smes in particular, to enjoy the digital comfort that is essential for their well-being and development in today's world. in particular, it is in the interest of the union to have more server centres on its territory. the development of this type of technology will have an impact on all sectors of the economy, particularly in areas such as healthcare, energy, public services and education.
in writing. the european parliament has just voted for greater protection of data stored on cloud computing systems. after the espionage scandals that have been exposed in recent weeks, this position to protect european citizens and businesses even more makes sense. firstly, european data protection rules must be applied to cloud computing services operating in the european union even if a customer in a third country gives other instructions. europe needs these safeguards, otherwise non-eu legislation could lead to illegal mass transfers of cloud-stored data belonging to eu citizens and residents. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. the purpose of this document is to set out the preliminary views of the rapporteur on the evaluation of berec and the office, in order to encourage debate and discussion on the subject and to be able to draw up a balanced report. on the whole, i think that berec as such is working properly. this body (and its predecessors) seems to have gradually increased mutual trust between the nras, which has contributed to the effective achievement of the objectives of berec. nevertheless, these positive aspects should not prevent the possibility of considering a more ambitious set of objectives for berec and its structure, with a greater focus on the internal market. on the other hand, the office and its relationship with berec are problematic.
in writing. currently, 88% of stocks in the mediterranean and 39% of stocks in the atlantic are overfished due to fleet overcapacity, overfishing and uneven compliance with eu rules. globally, the world bank and fao estimate that $50 billion is wasted annually due to poor fisheries management. it is high time that the problem of overfishing was brought under control and properly managed. the new legislation will improve environmental management and protection. in order to rebuild and maintain stocks, it is imperative that the maximum sustainable yield is respected. this would make the fisheries sector sustainable, but also profitable, including for the industries.
in writing. the new basic regulation includes a decision of principle, namely that appropriations from the european union funds in the fisheries sector can only be paid if the rules of the common fisheries policy are respected. this applies to the member states as well as to the various private enterprises in the fisheries sector. the details of these regulations are governed by the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund. the implementation of the 'access criteria' is a great success for the negotiating team. in future, member states will have to allocate fishing opportunities among their fishermen according to objective and transparent criteria. these criteria must be of an ecological, social and economic nature. fleet segments that prove to create more than average jobs and have less than average adverse environmental effects will be able to benefit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text. following the reform of the regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, the european parliament and the council invite the european commission to submit a proposal to amend the regulation on controls (regulation (ec) no 1224/2009). this amendment should take into account the need to regulate the provision of gear type information for products from wild fisheries.
in writing. deep-sea fishing is a key issue for the economic viability of many fishing communities. the main objective is the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea fish stocks, reducing fishing incidents and ensuring an exchange of information on scientific assessments. it is important that the fishing industry works in collaboration with scientists to develop more profitable but also more sustainable fisheries. in this respect, vessels using trawls or gillnets will be able to benefit from financial support from the european maritime and fisheries fund to use new gear that will have a more limited impact on the environment and the ecosystem. i welcome this report, which strikes the right balance between cost-effectiveness and protection of the marine environment.
in writing. deep-sea fishing, which will take up between 400 and 1 500 metres below the sea surface, uses trawls, which are like bottom-dwelling bulldozers, throwing their huge, multi-tonne nets that scratch the ground and pick up whatever they can. the vote is a step we would have liked to have taken bigger, but a step in the right direction for an end to the ploughing of the seas. it is also worth remembering that this fishery, which destroys 4,000-year-old corals in five minutes, represents only 1.7% of european catches. environmental disaster, financial deficit, fuel consumption that exceeds the limits (half a liter of diesel for a kilo of fish caught), fish stocks that do not have time to regenerate: let's be clear, deep-sea fishing is not sustainable!
in writing. i welcome the report on the civil protection mechanism. as natural and other disasters become more frequent, it is essential to move from a coordination mechanism to a european civil protection mechanism, as this will ensure efficient disaster management through an integrated approach. it is our duty to react quickly and as best we can to minimize human, environmental and material losses resulting from major disasters. the report also includes a preventive element, which consists of strengthening regional cooperation, establishing a risk map and preventing disasters in a sustainable way. while we cannot prevent certain disasters, we can limit their effects. this report shows real european solidarity on the ground.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on a report calling for better consumer protection in the taking out of loans and mortgages in the real estate market. irresponsible lending played a major role in the current economic crisis, as it led to bubbles and massive debt for millions of consumers in europe. this agreement is a breakthrough in mortgage regulation, thanks to increased transparency of the cost of taking out mortgages. in the future, consumers will receive a standardised information document (esis) that provides the main details of the credit provision in an easily comparable and transparent manner before they sign the contract. costs incurred for loans in another currency should warn of additional costs due to changing exchange rates. in the case of extremely high costs, a rebate or a protection mechanism can also be put in place to protect consumers from hidden costs; but he who desires to make amends before the time appointed, shall not be punished more severely. despite the fact that the new rules do not yet take sufficient account of the risks of irresponsible borrowing, i am voting in favour of this report because it provides greater protection for consumers.
in writing. since the crisis, the need to lend and borrow responsibly has increased. the fsa's mortgage market analysis from july 2010 recognises that around 50% of all mortgage applications in 2007 and 2008 were processed without an income check and that at the peak of the market almost 33% of all residential mortgages in the uk were sold on an interest-only basis, with around three quarters of these loans not specifying a repayment method. achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for sustainable growth and learning from the crisis, in line with the g20 roadmap, requires a stable, robust, efficient and competitive internal mortgage market. this requires sound lending practices, symmetrical relationships between parties and good consumer information; those conditions are also necessary to promote financial inclusion and ensure a high level of consumer protection. our objective should therefore be to achieve a sustainable internal market in mortgage lending.
in writing. it is essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh. that is why i have introduced a new recital and a new paragraph in article 1 of the regulation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on greenhouse gas emission allowances. as we know, the ets, the union's emissions trading system, is an essential tool in the policy of combating greenhouse gas emissions for the european union. but following the economic crisis, we saw that the ets had some dysfunctions, including undervaluing the carbon price, which did not allow the necessary investments in sustainable low-carbon technologies. the report therefore provides short- and medium-term solutions to address its weaknesses and to ensure that this leading instrument can properly fulfil its missions.
in writing. i welcome this report which aims to freeze the auctioning of 900 million allowances in the coming years. due to a growing surplus of emission allowances on the market, the price of co2 emission permits has become so low that companies have little incentive to emit less greenhouse gases. the measures proposed in this report should raise the price of co2 emission allowances to a level that provides sufficient incentives for european industries to pollute less and invest more in low-carbon innovation, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change. i am glad that the commission can adapt the auction timetable in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. − the cornerstone of european climate policy has been threatened for months by an overabundance of co2 rights. co2 trading should reward sustainable innovation, green energy and industry leaders. unfortunately, this is not the case now, because the cost of a ton of co2 emissions is now about the same as that of a hamburger. this extremely low carbon price does not discourage pollution and does not discourage investment in a green economy. these investments are needed to create jobs and to combat climate change. in addition, companies that have anticipated the ets in time and invested in greening are not rewarded for this and polluting operators can continue with impunity. the adoption today of the groote report on backloading will ensure that the auctioning of 900 million co2 allowances is postponed in order to reduce the surplus of co2 allowances and to buy time to further address the weaknesses of the system. this is a first provisional step to redress the excesses of the emissions trading system and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the objective of this report is to clarify the legislative provisions relating to the auctioning schedule for allowances set out in directive 2003/87/ec. it seems to me that the commission should be able to adapt the auction schedule adopted in accordance with article 10 (4) of directive 2003/87/ec. however, such measures should only be taken in exceptional circumstances, such as those faced by the etuc at present. in addition, in order not to jeopardise the stability and predictability of the ems, i propose that the decision to adapt the auction timetable be taken only once during the third phase of the ems. in this respect, this short-term measure proposal should not be seen as a remedy for the current imbalances but rather as a means of ensuring the stability of the ems pending the adoption of long-term structural measures.
in writing. every second, around 2 550 kg of cartonboard is used worldwide, or around 80 million tonnes of cartonboard a year. paper and cardboard must be recycled. the aim is to empower citizens and businesses to take responsibility for the consequences for future generations and to make them aware of 'better consumption'. i voted for this resolution, of course.
in writing. the european union is founded on values such as minority rights and gender equality. all european citizens should enjoy these values and the roma are no exception. however, the facts show otherwise. they are often discriminated against and in some cases are cut off from the real economy. it is important for the union to help strengthen national roma integration strategies. i welcome this report, which deals more specifically with gender-related aspects. the situation of roma women is often more fragile than that of men. it is necessary to pay more attention to women and to respect for all their rights and to help them to integrate better into the places where they live.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's text. i join him in calling on the commission and the member states to ensure that the fundamental rights of roma women and children are respected, and that roma women and girls are informed - also through awareness campaigns - of their rights under existing national legislation on gender equality and discrimination, and to do more to combat patriarchal and sexist traditions.
in writing. - it was natural that sooner or later this parliament would also feel called upon to examine the gender-related issues, alongside a hundred other aspects of the undeniable roma problem. whether it all matters, i venture to doubt very sincerely. we are faced with a life-long taboo, a disease of political correctness that apparently prevents us from asking the question of how much responsibility the roma themselves bear for what happens to them. the roma communities must also be given the means to compel them to do so, not least by making education compulsory for both boys and girls. otherwise, the problem will remain unsolvable.
in writing. i welcome the report on the international community's efforts in the field of development and state building in south sudan. it is worth remembering that as much as 50% of the population lives below the poverty line and this country is in danger of becoming a failed state. the eu has to act pre-emptively and quickly by implementing a common strategy to make this country a democratic and inclusive state. this region, as we all know, is particularly fragile. this is why it is imperative to develop a regional strategy, to coordinate operations better and to support a thorough dialogue with regional partners with a view to making progress in terms of cooperation and development. the comprehensive peace agreement between sudan and south sudan must be implemented as soon as possible as it will resolve the thorny issues that remain unresolved such as power-sharing, citizenship, debt-sharing, etc.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it is clear that europe, far from abandoning this young state after the 2011 referendum, has strongly committed itself to its side, as has the entire international community. but there are still questions to which the report should attempt to provide answers. this commitment and the strategy followed, which are so important for the horn of africa, have, however, been the subject of very little debate in the european parliament. parliament was hardly involved in this strategy and the criteria used, such as the priorities set, were not transparent. the future of south sudan depends on good relations with the north: what diplomatic efforts has the european union made? we have a special representative for the horn of africa, but the media visibility of the european union's commitment is not up to the level of support it provides. how can we avoid falling into neo-colonialism without losing the benefit of a political operation financed by the european union? in addition, rosalind marsden, special representative for south sudan, was informed that her mandate would end at the end of october 2013, as the country's problems, far from being resolved, have become more acute. is that reasonable? how should the eu's contribution be assessed?
in writing. - the european car industry is still suffering from the severe economic crisis - i know what i am talking about, with the closure of the ford plant in genk, in my province of limburg - but that does not change the fact that european cars are still technologically world-leading. we must keep it that way at all costs. the automotive sector, with its suppliers, is one of the absolute pillars of our industry: 12 million jobs, a quarter of the world's automobile production. we need to combine all our forces to maintain that lead. all the ingredients for successful action are in this report by mr proust: increasing and pooling innovation efforts to make 100% safe and super environmentally friendly cars, coherent and smart regulations, realistic trade agreements and intensive guidance for workers affected by restructuring. europe must take the lead in developing and building the car of the future. the commission and parliament must help to steer and encourage this.
in writing. the european automotive sector is currently experiencing difficulties, having been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. the transnational challenges facing the industry (such as global warming) add to the alarming situation of the sector. yet it is one of the pillars of our economy because of its potential for growth and the number of jobs that depend on it. the automotive sector is also an important source of innovation and new technologies which have a significant impact on other sectors of the economy. it is therefore essential for the european union to ensure a strong and effective programme addressing the challenges facing this industry. as this report points out, the cars 2020 programme, developed in 2012 by the european commission, is an excellent starting point. however, i believe that it needs to be strengthened in order to bring the european automobile market closer together and make the sector more competitive and sustainable. the european union must also focus on innovation that will ensure the economic, ecological and social sustainability of the sector.
in writing. − the cars 2020 programme was developed by the european commission to support the competitiveness and sustainability of the automotive sector. this own-initiative report by the european parliament on the proposed programme contains some green points, but misses the point on what is needed to achieve a green transition towards an energy-efficient and less polluting automotive industry. i therefore do not vote for this report. the report does not clearly recognise that an energy-efficient and low-carbon industry is the key to innovation and competitiveness of the european automotive industry, while benefiting consumers and the environment. the report calls for a moratorium on legislation in this sector. this is at a time when more incentives are needed to achieve a green transition. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement. this will help to absorb excess capacity and ensure the future of the automotive industry and the sectors which supply it. the report does not indicate that there should be conditions attached to european and other public support for the automobile sector.
in writing. addressing climate change must remain at the heart of our action. and the european union has progressed so rapidly in this area that we have become an example to the rest of the world. but in these times of crisis we must have another priority, which is equally important and relevant: to respond to the much more everyday concerns of our citizens, namely the loss of competitiveness of the european economy, the loss of purchasing power, the destruction of jobs and the ever-harder competition from third countries. it is this crisis of confidence that we must first and foremost address in this report.
in writing. - i voted against the estrela report because it is not for the european union to decide on matters relating to abortion. the eu has no competence in this area and cannot therefore impose rules on the member states. the attitude of mrs estrela after the rejection of her report for the second time is shocking. the fact that she refuses to accept the outcome of a democratic vote shows that she is not a democrat. it is strange and regrettable that she should get away with this so easily on the left.
in writing. i am very disappointed that the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights was rejected by the plenary. it must be remembered that health is a fundamental right. the exercise of this right would enable the eu to achieve a higher level of health if health and sexual and reproductive rights are fully recognised. moreover, violations of the sdgs have negative consequences not only for women and girls but also for society as a whole.
in writing. we have been the impotent witnesses this afternoon to this reactionary europe which is seeking to destroy the values to which we are attached. the conservatives in the european parliament rejected a report calling for the recognition of sexual and reproductive rights as an essential element of human dignity. the pro-life lobbies' aim is to ban access to sex education, the right to abortion and embryonic stem cell research throughout the european union. they have now succeeded in passing on the fallacious principle that europe has no legitimacy to deal with such vital issues, even though their ultimate aim is to ban these rights in europe. a scandal for those women here and elsewhere who suffer the consequences of the interference with their rights with complete indifference. a disgrace to our values!
in writing. - the european parliament voted today for an alternative resolution to the one in the estrela report. i voted against the alternative resolution, together with our green group, because it wishes to leave the powers of the member states in the area of sexual and reproductive health and rights, whereas these rights are based on our core european values and are central to the promotion of gender equality. the estrela report, for example, recognised these rights as basic elements of human dignity and as basic rights for men and women which should not be restricted on religious grounds. in addition, each member state should provide quality sexual and reproductive health services without any form of discrimination and compulsory sterilisation is seen as an infringement of human rights and bodily integrity. it is a shame that the estrela report, which stands for basic rights, was rejected in favour of a meaningless resolution which came under pressure from conservative forces within europe, but which offers no solution to preventing maternal mortality or teenage pregnancy.
in writing. some souls are for sale in the pre-election period and the values are in balance. but not a good deal for women's rights... sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion, sex education, family planning, contraception, or sexual health should be self-evident. in some countries this is not the case, and in others it is gradually disappearing. the fact that a small majority of meps have joined the european far right is a very bad sign just six months before the elections and will cause a bit more confusion. for these meps, women's rights and gender equality are in tatters, a sad symbol on what is supposed to be world human rights day.
in writing. - the attitude of rapporteur estrela in actually voting down her report was unacceptable and even somewhat frightening. in a democracy, the opinion of the vast majority is respected and one does not start to scold when one loses a vote, which is the logical consequence of perfectly avoidable extremist views in the original text. i myself do not hold a fanatical, unchanging opinion on the delicate subject. i know that fanatical insults against dissenters will not get us anywhere. the rapporteur has served her cause very poorly today.
in writing. i welcome the report on volunteering and volunteering activities in europe. many sporting organisations, ngos and voluntary associations have been greatly weakened and destabilised by the economic crisis we have experienced. in the future it would be wise to promote a common european approach. a common approach would ensure more opportunities for youth mobility and employability, enabling them to acquire useful skills. it is also essential to ensure better recognition of skills acquired during volunteering, such as registration and recognition in the europass.
the european union has learned a bitter lesson, commissioner. lesson one: the union is involved - whether it wants to or not - in a geopolitical battle with the kremlin. well, i hope we've understood by now that the kremlin is not interested in a win-win, only a win-lose. is the cold war really over? lesson two: the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the ukrainian people are not free to decide their own future. over the past few years, i too have come to know ukraine from the inside. my thoughts are with the people, especially the young people who are braving the cold and fighting for a dignified future. they do not deserve to see their country go down the drain of corruption and self-interest, to be persecuted and beaten for expressing an opinion. they do not deserve to be isolated from the european union. we must do everything we can to help these people to integrate into europe, with or without the support of the yanukovych regime. the commission has already taken steps to facilitate contacts, to ease visa requirements, to facilitate trade and exchanges, and to encourage cooperation between cities and municipalities. commissioner, with a little creativity and political will, a lot is possible. actually, we should have done this a long time ago. ukraine's pain is europe's shame!
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 december 2013 at 12.20 a.m.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2013 follow-up report on albania (2013/2879 ((rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 december 2013 at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mr eduard kukan, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2012 and the european union's policy on the matter (2013/2152 ((ini)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having worked on the new budgetary framework and in the committee on employment and social affairs, i had great fears about the future of this globalisation adjustment fund. tomorrow, it's extended and we're going back a long way. the firm negotiations conducted by our rapporteur - whom i commend for her work - and our committee chairman, the fictitious rapporteurs, as well as some of our allies among the negotiators in the council, and with the help of the commission, have ensured the sustainability of the fund, one of the few european supports for workers. the fund has not only been maintained but has also been strengthened to make it more effective, with the reintroduction of the 'crisis' criterion, which makes it possible to meet the reality of our restructuring; with all types of contracts now covered, helping more workers; the co-financing rate was increased to 60%; with young people in disaster areas who may be assisted by the fund; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we're not happy with everything. first, the financial resources for the egf should be significantly increased to meet the needs. secondly, the fund should be able to play a real role in the restructuring process in the future, so as to become an anticipatory tool for monitoring restructuring and helping the process of redeploying workers and thus preventing such redundancies. i am convinced that with this new regulation we are strengthening solidarity between europeans.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank all the colleagues – and especially mr swoboda – who are very interested in the democratic choice we have in the liberal group. obviously it is because it is only in the liberal group that there is a democratic choice that everybody is interested in it! besides that i want start my intervention by paying tribute to the citizens of ukraine. i do that because the hundreds of thousands of people in the streets of kiev are in my opinion today the best answer we can give to the rising eurosceptic sentiment in europe today. inside europe, nationalists and populists try to explain to us that it is over with europe, that there is no future for the european union and yet you see, outside our union, in the streets of kiev, people who want to join europe, want to join the european union. my hope is that this pro-european spirit will not only prevail in the streets of kiev next week, but also in next week’s european council. it will be necessary because it is not an ordinary european council. we have in fact three decisive hurdles to overcome in this european council, six months before our european elections. the first is on european defence: it is exactly 60 years ago that the french national assembly made in my opinion a huge mistake, in 1954 if you remember – i was just born one year before, so i do not remember myself – to reject the european defence community. nevertheless we see that, if you carry out a poll in europe, in all the member states of the european union public opinion is in favour of european defence – a majority in favour of european defence, even in the united kingdom. if there is one issue in the uk that they think we have to do together it is about european defence. i know, some were laughing ten years ago when in the aftermath of the iraq war we organised with france and with germany what they called afterwards the chocolate summit. the idea at that time was to build on european defence, based on the st malo agreement between france and great britain. i can only hope that ten years later this idea can blossom again, because certainly in terms of austerity where all the member states have enormous difficulties with their public finances, we do not have the luxury to do the same thing 28 times, and it is far better to cooperate in that matter. the second decisive step we need in this european council is the new economic governance architecture for the eurozone. let me be very blunt about that, commissioner. you have defended here the contractual arrangements, but this parliament does not want this idea of contractual arrangements: the idea that between the commission and a member state we should make a contract in which a specific reform – pension reform or labour market reform – is imposed. this system of contractual arrangements will be the death of europe if you continue with it. it would create resistance in every member state were you to make such a contractual arrangement, because it would be seen as an intrusion from europe in a specific national reform. we have said it already – mr brok, myself, mr gualtieri in the name of the parliament – in the sherpa meetings and you are simply continuing with the idea. the commission should defend another idea, the same idea as parliament, the idea of convergence guidelines. there need to be convergence directives that are applicable to all 28 member states of the union, and to all the 17 member states of the eurozone. naturally, these convergence guidelines will have different consequences in these and other member states with different reforms. please stop this idea of contractual arrangements; it gives the impression that the european union, and specifically the commission, is in fact intervening and imposing a special national reform while it is still member states who are responsible for that. finally, my third point is the banking union. let me first of all say what i have repeated already many times here in the plenary: without this banking union there is no solution to this crisis. we shall see exactly the same as what happened in japan: that is a long period of economic stagnation. we need a real banking union, not merely a banking union, not what i call a loose coordination of national resolution mechanisms. that will not work. we do not need an intergovernmental system, we need a community system. what i have read in the press this morning about the outcome of the ecofin meeting last night is again an intergovernmental system that this parliament hopefully will never accept. secondly, it has to be a system paid for not by taxpayers but by the banks themselves because, if it is again a system like the one we had in the past, it will be the taxpayers again who foot the bill. banks have to pay based on their risk profiles. i hope that in this parliament we can all give full support to the commission proposal that precisely corresponds to this. my conclusion: i hope that at next week’s ecofin meeting and certainly, commissioner, at next week’s european council, the same european spirit can prevail as the european spirit we see today in kiev on maidan square. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr audy, i believe that european defence is an imperative because it is an area which the states can no longer finance in its present form. that's the reality. the reality is that european countries spend 42% of us spending on defence, which is a lot, because us military spending is huge. forty two percent! almost half. but we can only do 10% of the operations that the americans can do. this means, if you do a little calculation, that europe is four to five times less effective militarily than the americans. so it's clear we have to continue on the basis of saint-malo. saint-malo was an agreement between france and britain to launch the defense community. what i am proposing, and what we did with mr chirac at this summit ten years ago, is to go further on this point and to put an end to the idiotic idea that we must do the same thing 23 times in the field of european defence.
in writing. there is a lot of political commotion about the fact that on 1 january this year bulgarians and romanians will have free access to the labour market, on an equal footing with all eu citizens. many half-truths and fabrications are told about this. it is worth recalling that free movement within the eu is not unlimited, namely: eu citizens must prove that they are available for the labour market and their application for social assistance may be refused if it is found that they are unlawfully claiming it. some governments, particularly in london, seem to overlook these enforcement instruments and give the impression that the opening up of the labour market is a threat. the same governments are opposing the introduction of effective checks and inspections against the unlawful use of the posting of workers directive in the social affairs council. this is why the recent agreement on the enforcement directive is so important: it is clear that europe can indeed cope with the fraudulent structures of the crooked companies. the agreement is an important step towards fair competition and humane working conditions for posted workers. such concrete decisions will help to convince the citizens that european cooperation is a good thing for all of us.
in writing. the threat of counterfeiting the euro is international in scope. our currency remains a prime target for counterfeiters. it is imperative that member states cooperate with each other in order to deal with this phenomenon. i therefore welcome the report by anthea mcintyre which sets out an action programme on trade, assistance and training for the protection and safeguarding of the euro against counterfeiting. this cooperation should increase the efficiency of operations through the sharing of best practices, common standards and joint specialised training.
in writing. counterfeiting of the euro is a serious criminal offence and its links with organised crime should be taken into account when assessing the economic and social impact of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. large-scale counterfeiting can harm the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. however, the euro is not counterfeited on a large scale. it is largely protected by its design and by the structures responsible at national and european level for monitoring and combating counterfeiting. the pericles programme has played an important role in this action to date. this long-standing programme has done a valuable service in disseminating best practice in the fight against counterfeiting and has thus contributed to the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission proposal is still too vague in some respects, however, and this report aims to supplement the text presented by providing details to optimise the use of the funds allocated to the programme. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 99/2013 on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 and i welcome the work of my colleague zalba bidegain.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union. the european parliament recently noted that europe today has about 880 000 modern slaves. to reduce this alarming figure, the fight for decent living and working conditions for domestic workers, one of the most vulnerable professions, must of course be a priority. the ilo convention guarantees domestic workers the same fundamental rights as other workers and obliges signatory countries to eliminate forced and child labour. it is now up to all the european member states to ratify the ilo convention as soon as possible and to put an end to the unacceptable conditions which we are still facing in europe today.
in writing. i welcome the report on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the eu, the 2011 ilo convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189). this convention is intended to improve the situation of these people, to give value to their work and to recognise the importance they have in the national economy. more legislation on this type of work, often informal, would help to combat forced labour, child labour, discrimination, etc. these workers will have the opportunity to learn about working conditions, which are generally ignored because there is often no written contract between the employer and the worker. the convention should, above all, improve the situation of migrant women, who are particularly vulnerable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this convention, which has the main objective of enhancing the value of domestic workers by setting out the following guarantees: recognition of the significant contribution of domestic workers to the world economy; recognition of the fact that domestic work is undervalued and invisible and is mainly carried out by women and girls, many of whom are migrants or belong to disadvantaged communities and are therefore in a highly vulnerable situation; 'domestic worker' means any person who performs domestic work in the context of an employment relationship.
in writing. i welcome the report on the participation of the republic of armenia in union programmes. this is part of the new european strategy towards its neighbouring countries, which aims to increase the participation of partner countries in the proposed programmes. the conclusion of this protocol will lay the foundations for greater participation of armenia in union programmes. it will in particular result in the strengthening of links in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, the intensification of people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, and the consolidation of political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement. the union's strategic interest requires closer relations with its neighbours. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. the republic of armenia shall contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates. financial commitments vary from one programme to another and are determined by the memorandum of understanding. the conclusion of the protocol will lay the foundations for the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes to armenia or for the country's increased participation in them, thus allowing not only closer links in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, intensified people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also the consolidation of political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the french republic on the application to the community of saint-barthélemy of the union legislation on taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and i endorse the text of my colleague mr nitras.
in writing. given that this measure aims to further stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in this outermost region and given that the extension is only proposed for a limited period of time, i am in favour of this proposal being adopted without amendment, in accordance with article 46 of the regulation, as was already the case in the legislative procedure which led to the approval by parliament of the commission proposal for council decision 895/2011 of 19 december 2011.
in writing. the european union is the largest donor of development aid (60 billion euro per year). there is no reason to reduce aid, and there is no reason to break our commitments. but we also know that aid is no longer enough. other sources of funding, such as the international transaction tax or even more public/private partnerships, need to be used. we need to support foreign investment and to do that we need partner countries to improve their governance. we need a 'just state' which ensures an equitable redistribution of the wealth created, which fulfils its royal functions. the african continent is a continent of the future, rich in natural resources and the potential of creative, self-motivated and dynamic youth.
in writing. − this own-initiative report makes recommendations to the european commission for donor coordination in relation to development aid in the eu. the report aims to improve the implementation of international agreements on the effectiveness of development aid and to apply the provisions of the lisbon treaty in this field. the instruments of cooperation, such as joint programming and division of labour, have produced only limited results. there is still (too) often fragmentation, duplication and competition between donors. until now, european initiatives to improve donor coordination have been mainly based on voluntary action. the eu must use the lisbon treaty to play its role in better coordinating development aid. the eu must be much more than the 29th donor. it should take the lead in improving the effectiveness of development aid through coordination. especially now that development aid is being cut in many countries - unfortunately also in belgium - it is all the more important that development money is spent effectively to fight poverty in developing countries. the principles on which this report is based are the internationally agreed principles in paris, accra and busan on the effectiveness of development aid. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. consider, among other things, that according to recent estimates in the aforementioned report on the cost of non-europe, €800 million could be saved annually in transaction costs if the eu and its member states concentrated their aid efforts on fewer countries and activities, and that an additional €8.4 billion could be saved annually if the country allocation was fully coordinated and had poverty reduction as the sole priority. i believe that the legal provisions of the feu treaty on development, which call for the promotion of complementarity between the union and its member states in the field of development cooperation, must be fully exploited in order to enhance the effectiveness of coordination between eu donors. this text goes in that direction.
in writing. the qualifications of the proposed candidate have been assessed by parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, in particular in the light of the conditions set out in article 26 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. as part of this evaluation, the committee received the proposed candidate's curriculum vitae and her written answers to a questionnaire. these answers having been agreed by the committee, i supported this choice of my vote.
in writing. i welcome with great enthusiasm all the instruments which will help to improve the external action of the european union. it is essential to recall the importance of this aid for the countries which receive it. the european union contributes to the development of a large number of countries through its action. in the run-up to the establishment of a genuine european foreign policy, these financial instruments play a considerable role in enhancing the role of the european union on the international scene. however, it is important to maintain a certain degree of coherence between all these instruments in order to enable the union to ensure a certain logic in its action.
in writing. i supported these amendments. in particular, the consultative procedure should generally be used for the adoption of individual measures, special measures and support measures with a financial value of less than eur 10 million. however, the commission should adopt immediately applicable implementing acts where, in duly justified cases requiring a rapid union response, imperative grounds of urgency so require.
in writing. after the text has been corrected, we have voted as follows: preserving peace, preventing conflict, strengthening international security, assisting people, countries and regions facing natural or man-made disasters, and promoting the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of these countries, with the essential aim of eradicating poverty, are among the principles and primary objectives of the union's external action within the meaning of article 21 of the treaty on european union. crises and conflicts affecting countries around the world and other factors such as challenges and threats related to terrorism, organised crime, climate change and cybersecurity, as well as natural disasters, pose a threat to global stability and security. to solve these problems in an effective and timely manner, specific financial resources and financing instruments are needed to complement humanitarian aid and long-term cooperation instruments.
in writing. a number of important developments have occurred since the launch of the european neighbourhood policy and the creation of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. these developments include deepening relations with partners, the establishment of regional initiatives and the establishment of democratic transition processes in the eastern partnership countries and, in particular, in the countries of the southern mediterranean after the events of spring 2011. this led to a new approach to the european neighbourhood policy, which was defined in 2011 following a comprehensive strategic review of the policy. it highlights key objectives promoting cooperation and sustained support for partners committed to building a fairer, more democratic society that respects human rights and freedoms, in accordance with the principles of differentiation ('more for more') and mutual accountability.
in writing. i am of the opinion that a european state which has applied for membership of the union can only become a member when it has been confirmed that it fulfils the criteria for membership laid down at the copenhagen european council in june 1993 and provided that the accession does not exceed the limits of the union's capacity to integrate the new member. these criteria relate to the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and non-discrimination and respect for and protection of minorities and vulnerable groups, the development of the economy which must be sufficient to withstand the pressure of competition in the internal market, and the capacity to assume not only the rights but also the obligations arising from the application of the treaties.
in writing. this draft regulation is one of the elements of the european union's external policy. it is innovative and different from the instruments developed to promote the union's external development. it aims at partnership and cooperation between the union and, in particular, those countries which have succeeded in doing without development aid and become economic partners of interest to the union, such as china, russia, latin america, etc. it aims to promote the union's interests and address key global challenges, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. this instrument has a limited budget of eur 1 131 000 000 for the period 2014-2020. therefore, the objectives, sectors and countries targeted must be carefully determined, and the coordination mechanisms already provided for in this regulation must be adapted to the specific needs of the member states.
in writing. i would like to stress the need for easier access to funding for eidhr beneficiaries. simplifying and speeding up the procedure while reducing the administrative burden would be one way of achieving this objective. in this context, the set of proposals for external action presented by the commission is a step in the right direction, as it contains simplification elements subjecting all the union's external action instruments to the provisions of the general regulation, providing for more flexible procedures for emergency situations, with the possibility of taking ad hoc measures in the form of direct or small grants in cases of human rights violations and to ensure coherence with the financial regulation.
in writing. on 7 december 2011, the european commission presented its proposal for a financing instrument for development cooperation, thus initiating the procedure that will establish a new legal basis for the union's development policies. this proposal introduced several new features. perhaps the most important element is differentiation, i.e. the distinction between the least developed countries and those that have entered the upper middle income countries. equally important is the reduction in the number of thematic programmes from five to two, which makes it possible to lighten the body of the text, while using annexes to specify the priorities of the geographical and thematic programmes. simplification is another objective of the proposal, in line with the general objective of alignment with the policies of the partner countries. country strategy papers will no longer be necessary if the partner country has its own development plan. we share the principles and objectives set out by the commission in its proposal, but we have suggested several amendments, many of which reflect priorities already expressed by parliament with regard to the future development policy of the union and its implementation.
in writing. - in my own region, limburg, we are currently experiencing the disastrous and profound effects that major restructuring at multinational companies can have on workers and their families, with the closure of the ford plant in genk. the blow is not just to the ford plant itself, but to the many local smes in the supply chain. directly and indirectly, almost 10 000 jobs are at stake. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a real opportunity for europe to make a difference in such a situation. because the globalisation fund is not just a compensation fund. the financial support is intended to open up new prospects for the workers concerned and thus for the whole region. this is a well-trained and motivated workforce, which, with appropriate guidance and retraining, can seize new opportunities. it is therefore also positive that the new fund also provides support for young people and encourages entrepreneurship, by supporting employees in the takeover of bankrupt but viable companies. it is a pity that the egf was rather tightly budgeted. the annual budget of eur 150 million must now be used all the more efficiently, with a minimum of red tape, to help the affected workers get back to work as quickly as possible.
in writing. i would like to commend the work of frédéric daerden in this area. the eu must get back on the path to growth with a dynamic job creation programme, otherwise growth could happen without job creation. the egf may help to achieve these objectives by supporting redundant workers who are looking for a job, want to upskill or retrain or want to set up as self-employed in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the evaluation of the fund reported a reintegration rate of 48.1%, and in most cases this rate increased in the medium term. it also indicated that the egf had supported some of the groups of workers who were most difficult to help. in addition, it reported that many beneficiaries had regained their self-confidence and renewed and improved their job search skills, as well as other skills and abilities; similarly, although not all beneficiaries were able to find employment, the fund's assistance improved their employability.
in writing. tax fraud and tax evasion affect all member states of the european union without exception. this is why i welcome this report, which requires member states to collect and share data in the tax area by 2017. this cooperation between states will strengthen the internal market through effective tax systems and improve the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance.
in writing. this proposal, together with the savings directive and the administrative cooperation directive, which it proposes to amend, means that member states will share as much information with each other as they have committed to do with the united states under the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca). i support the commission's proposal and believe that it is in line with both the commission's action plan against tax fraud and tax evasion and the position of the european parliament expressed in its own-initiative report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. in times of crisis, when european citizens are faced with rising taxes, there is an urgent need to tackle the problems of tax fraud and tax evasion, which cause an estimated €1 trillion in losses per year, representing an average cost of €2 000 per year for each european citizen.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to replace national notification and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials by a single registration system. the implementation of the regulation should simplify procedures and reduce administrative burdens, while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. the replacement of these national reporting and authorisation procedures by a single registration system for transport practice will therefore help to simplify procedures, reduce administrative burden, remove barriers to entry, while maintaining the high levels of radiation protection achieved.
in writing. this excellent report underlines the need to put human rights at the heart of the european union's relations with all third countries and to avoid a double standard in its external policy. like the report, i call on the eu foreign affairs council to adopt conclusions on human rights in order to establish a common threshold of minimum requirements in this area. in addition, the union must provide full support to countries in a democratic transition and to their populations in order to assist them in ensuring a more solid transition with concrete guarantees of non-return. however, i remain firm on the question of morocco and western sahara. finally, i would stress the need for the european union to ensure that these same rights are strictly respected within its territory through monitoring mechanisms.
in writing. − the council has a tradition of issuing an annual report on eu activities in the field of human rights and democracy vis-à-vis third countries and in multilateral fora. the european parliament uses this to make recommendations for eu human rights policy. the report of parliament contains a number of provisions introduced by the greens. for example, references to lgbt rights were significantly reinforced. the report also focused more on gender equality, trade aspects, business and human rights, coherence between the eu's domestic and foreign policies, the fight against international impunity and economic, social and cultural rights. the eu is also called upon to take a position on armed drones, whistleblowers and investigative journalists in eu policy on human rights activists and to include human rights in free trade and investment treaties. the report also calls for a greater role for the european parliament in eu human rights policy and for greater attention to human rights in the functioning of the parliament itself. i therefore voted in favour of this report with conviction, given the many important human rights issues it raises. i regret, however, that the green amendments on problems relating to european migration policy were not adopted.
in writing. human rights are at the heart of the european union's relations with all third countries, including its strategic partners. the european human rights policy must be compatible with respect for the obligations of the treaty, ensure the coherence of internal and external policies and avoid the practice of double standards in external policies. we therefore call for the foreign affairs council of the european union to adopt conclusions on human rights and strategic partners, in order to establish a common threshold of minimum requirements in the field of human rights that member states and union representatives should address with their counterparts at the level of strategic partners.
in writing. - it is good that this report also mentions the investigations launched by the commission into state aid in football. the commission notes that the clubs have not been able to demonstrate that the aid was granted in the form of a guarantee. but government support can also help the social role that football can and should play. an example of this is the recent decision by the european commission to give the green light to the flemish support framework for football stadiums. it is therefore important to exercise caution when evaluating state aid. where social objectives are served, government support may be desirable and necessary. but financial schemes involving public funds must not disturb the level playing field.
in writing. i had to abstain on this file because the means in place could have been counterproductive. i wanted to express my concern about the situation of sme lending in europe. as the crisis deepens, lending to the real economy continues to decline and become more expensive, not because of the financial situation of the smes concerned, but because of their location within the euro area. this situation must be remedied, because the monetary policy transmission mechanism is de facto broken. another distortion is created by the fact that some banks receiving state aid use this money to buy more sovereign debt while at the same time reducing lending to smes and households.
in writing. the european dairy sector will be profoundly transformed after the expiry of quotas in 2015. for the first time in 31 years, the sector will no longer have milk quotas. this major change is likely to disrupt the market in the dairy sector, particularly in the less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. in these areas, dairy production is often the only source of income and the local community is heavily dependent on the dairy sector. to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas, with the negative economic and environmental consequences that this entails, additional measures are needed at european level. it is vital to continue monitoring the consequences of the abolition of quotas, particularly in the less favoured and outermost regions. the present ini report therefore focuses mainly on these particularly vulnerable regions in order to guarantee farmers a decent livelihood and to ensure the future of rural areas, especially as the cap reform did not address this issue.
in writing. the world will experience more and more natural disasters due to climate change, population growth and countries in conflict. since 1992, 4.4 billion people have been affected by disasters and in 2011 the losses due to these disasters amounted to over 300 billion dollars. it is important to prevent as much as possible in the future in order to reduce losses. i therefore welcome this report which stresses the need for resilience measures in our humanitarian and development aid policies. we need to put in place frameworks that allow for the immediate mobilisation of all available resources, which will allow for more efficient management of the responses provided. it is also important to target the most vulnerable countries and populations. we should be the voice of these populations to enable them to adapt. people are not equal in the face of disasters, we must help the most deprived populations.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur. the report calls for a strong integration of resilience measures into humanitarian and development programmes in order to significantly advance the resilience approach. it also recognises the challenges posed by climate change and stresses that adaptation to climate change requires consideration of resilience and cpr initiatives.
in writing. i welcome the own-initiative report by angelika werthmann on women with disabilities. women and girls with disabilities represent 16% of the total female population in the union. these women are unfortunately disadvantaged in many areas such as housing, health, public transport, education, employment etc. it is therefore our duty to respond strongly with strategies, legislation and policies to ensure non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all these women and girls with disabilities. it is also important to provide additional support during pregnancy and childcare, especially if they have a mental illness.
in writing. women with disabilities are not only people who are unable to perform specific tasks, they are first and foremost women, human beings. when we talk about them, we must bear in mind that we are talking about citizens and that they cannot be defined by their disability. in fact, they don't want to. every day they face the same challenges and opportunities as other women; they are friends, daughters, mothers, wives and employees. they take on different roles, like all women. we are taking up the challenge of including women with disabilities in society and enabling them to participate on an equal footing. disabled people account for 15% of the european population; one in four europeans has a disabled family member. these figures illustrate the importance of responding to our high expectations and creating a friendly environment for all eu citizens on an equal footing.
in writing. retail trade accounts for a substantial share of the economy. it represents 11% of gdp at european level and 15% of employment in the union. i welcome the european commission's action plan which has decided to focus on this sector. however, i am disappointed that little attention is paid to the small selfemployed. increased support is essential to enable them to cope better with the current economic crisis and to encourage their development. i share the report's desire to better exploit innovative technologies and develop new business models for their online customers. i also welcome the commission's intention to develop instruments to facilitate consumer access to transparent, comprehensible, comparable and reliable information on the prices, quality and sustainability of goods and services.
in writing. retail trade is of great economic importance, accounting for 11% of gdp at european level and 15% of employment in the union. the european union has placed particular emphasis on retail trade, which is one of the main pillars of the single market. for large retailers, the potential economies of scale in an efficient internal market can be a clear advantage. it is therefore regrettable that many retailers wishing to operate in several or all member states still face unnecessary obstacles, such as different packaging and labelling requirements and differences in administrative practices. the social value of retail is as important as its economic value. the number of opportunities for real-life social interactions is rapidly decreasing, particularly with the ever-increasing importance of the internet in everyday life and the computerization of our societies in general.
president. - the figures have just been mentioned by a number of other members: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe. we have noted in our debates that there are still many difficulties in opening a payment account for people who have no fixed address, for people who work across borders, for erasmus students, people who have often been denied a bank account. that is precisely why we want to establish the right to that bank account at european level. but at the same time we must also take into account subsidiarity. in several countries, systems already exist to provide solutions to those people who are also socially excluded, and to give them access to a basic bank account. i think we should respect that, too. the aim is not to introduce a new product. the idea is to build a piece of inclusive market so that people can actually participate in social and economic life again through those bank accounts. the proposal aims to give people working or studying across borders, etc., effective access to a basic bank account. we really didn't make it too difficult. the link to be shown is very broad. i think that also shows that we are trying to shape this process in a very healthy and intelligent way. we've also made it easier to compare rates between bank accounts. it will also make it easier for our citizens to change bank accounts afterwards. in the past, closing a bank account often required a physical presence. it's all in the past. we are going to make it very easy for people to change bank accounts and at the same time give them much more information about the costs they have to pay when they open a bank account with different banks. so we have now made sure that we have really strengthened the single market, that we are giving consumers much more information and at the same time that there is an inclusive policy to ensure that these 25 million people have very easy access to basic banking services and can be an effective part of our society and of our economy.
mr president, mr draghi, for many you are a hero, the hero of the euro, and it is undeniable that throughout the crisis you have shown both a sense of responsibility and a certain willingness to help that honours you. for that, i want to say, we are grateful to you. i must, however, express my growing concern about you and the european central bank. i am concerned when i read your statements about the inevitable end of the european social model. i am concerned to hear you say in the econ committee that taxes are too high in europe. i am still worried to read the admonitions you allow yourselves to address in writing to elected heads of government, urging them, in particular, in very specific terms, to make the labour market more flexible and, therefore, to make workers more precarious. i am also concerned that you may use the means of pressure at your disposal, which the european central bank has, to defend certain financial institutions at the expense of the states, as we have seen in ireland. mr draghi, i am very much attached to the independence of the european central bank in the conduct of monetary policy. but i am even more committed to respect for the political sovereignty of the people and their elected representatives. mr draghi, whatever personal views you may have on these issues, fiscal, fiscal and social policies are not your concern. you may say that all these policies affect the stability of the currency and that as such you can speak. i would say that in this respect you should be made the super-minister of economic, financial and social affairs for the whole euro area and that is out of the question. if you want to get into the political arena, you're welcome, get elected, join us and we'll be happy to discuss these things with you. mr draghi, the european union is giving the european central bank, which is already the most powerful in the world, new powers. i cannot encourage you enough to exercise them with discretion and modesty if you want to maintain or regain the trust of our fellow citizens and our democracies.
i should like to begin by saying, mr president, that it has been clear for over a year now that every year all the public authorities in europe are losing as much as 1 000 billion euros in tax evasion and tax fraud. that is some 2 000 euros per european per year, at a time when in many countries ordinary people are paying the price every day of the crisis into which the failure of the banking system has plunged us. of course, there has been talk for some time that there is some sort of momentum to finally join hands and do something about this. but it can't be just words. between saying and doing, between rhetoric and real action, there is of course a wide gap, the tax gap. we're not gonna close it just by measuring her. the introduction of a measuring instrument is of course a useful thing. but we need to be more ambitious. a few years ago, we introduced the concept of bazooka as a bullet to bail out banks. now, tax evasion and tax avoidance also require a strong approach. the report by mr kleva, which we adopted some time ago, already contained some excellent ideas. we must therefore set binding targets in each member state to reduce the abuse, we must revoke the licences of banks, advisers, lawyers who collaborate in fraudulent structures; they should also be prosecuted. it is also necessary to work towards a serious harmonization of the common tax base for taxes, to define clearly what tax havens are and to prohibit cooperation with them. in short, this must now finally be made a priority. i think the people, the general public, will support you in this.
in writing. one trillion euros are annually withheld from tax revenues. this increases the level of government debt, destroys the possibility of fair competition between honest and fraudulent companies: the fraud of the big ones makes the small ones pay! these frauds shift the tax burden onto workers and low- and middle-income households. in addition, they force the public authorities to make cuts in public services. this is unacceptable. the consequences are even more pronounced in countries where the socioeconomic situation is dire. in greece, for example, large companies have transferred €60 billion out of the country since 1 january 2012 in order to benefit from tax breaks. the total cost of tax fraud is higher than the combined health budgets of the union. stopping tax evasion would wipe out all the deficits in just nine years. we must act! a coherent, concrete and common european taxation strategy and binding measures are essential. finally, we must fight for greater transparency and strict controls to prevent the eu institutions, bodies and agencies from resorting to 'tax havens'!
in writing. i consider that the arguments put forward by the general court are convincing and that the need to appoint additional judges is established. it is also essential that the general court be able to give judgment within a reasonable time. the major problem, however, is the appointment of judges. this question has already caused delays in the first attempt. in this report we are making a concrete proposal which does not take into account the nationality of the additional judges. a national approach to filling posts cannot undermine the rule of law in the european union. in the interest of reaching an agreement quickly, i think that parliament should be open to compromise proposals from the council or the court of justice, given the urgent need to increase the number of judges. any agreement is better than any further delay. the current length of court proceedings risks breaches of the european convention on human rights. the commission therefore calls on the council to react as soon as possible to the proposals contained in this draft report and not to jeopardise the effectiveness of the union's judicial system by further delaying the implementation of the treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions and in particular mayotte.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the draft council directive amending council directive 2010/18/eu as a result of the change of status of mayotte.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, when unemployment is high, energy prices are rising, raw materials are becoming scarce and dependence on imports is increasing, sustained economic growth coupled with improved employment is essential to ensure social cohesion. innovation is one of the keys to achieving this and should therefore be encouraged. this is achieved through eco-innovation, a concept combining environmental protection, growth, competitiveness and job creation. green innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to promote greater use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact, and to develop more environmentally friendly production processes and services. eco-innovation can take many forms, from a new water filter to clean waste water, to thinner, stronger steel to reduce the consumption of raw materials, to a new business model to sell repair services rather than products.
in writing. informal negotiations have started under the irish presidency, following the adoption of parliament's position in plenary and first reading on 14 march 2012, with a view to reaching an agreement at second reading in a timely manner. after several rounds of trilogues, the negotiating teams of parliament and the council reached an agreement on this issue on 5 june 2013. on 11 july 2013, the text of the agreement was submitted to the committee on international trade and approved by a very large majority. in view of this result, the chairman of the committee recommended to parliament in plenary, in his letter to the president of coreper on the same day, that the council's position at first reading be approved without amendment. after verification by the legal-linguists, the council adopted its position at first reading on 15 november 2013, confirming the agreement. i voted in favour of adopting the council's position at first reading and the joint declaration by parliament, the council and the commission without amendments. it also recommended that parliament take note of the declaration by the member states in connection with anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings under the regulations.
in writing. the commission, as a result of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing powers), had to adapt the rules for decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission has therefore put forward two proposals for alignment, known as omnibus i and omnibus ii, each of which brings together in a single instrument the trade regulations to be updated; omnibus i deals mainly with implementing acts and omnibus ii deals with delegated acts. omnibus ii makes the necessary amendments to the previous texts, which previously referred to the old comitology decision 1999/468/ec. in view of these factors, we approved, without amendment, the council's position at first reading and the joint declaration of parliament, the council and the commission on regulation (eec) no 3030/93 and regulation (ec) no 517/94. it also recommended that parliament take note of the commission's statements on codification and delegated acts. the three declarations will be published together with the final legislative act.
in writing. in order to enable consumers to easily compare charges for payment accounts across the internal market, payment service providers should provide them with a list of charges for services identified in the standardised terminology. this should also help to put credit institutions on an equal footing in the payment account market. the fee information document should only cover the most representative payment services in each member state and use the terms and definitions that may be agreed at union level. a glossary explaining at least the fees and services in the list should be made available to consumers to help them understand the fees charged to them for their payment account. the glossary should serve as a tool for consumers to better understand the meaning of those charges and thus enable them to choose from a wider range of payment account offers.
in writing. the european parliament voted on a proposal for a directive establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. i voted against the proposal, not because i am not in favour of integrated coastal management, but on the contrary. i am not at all convinced, however, that we need a european directive for this. in may 2013, the flemish parliament adopted a reasoned subsidy opinion, in which it considered that the commission proposal was contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. flanders is not alone in its concern: parliamentary committees in germany, sweden, the netherlands and poland have also raised a subsidiarity objection. but it is not enough to give the commission a yellow card and ask it to reconsider the proposal. in the same vein, i have tried to amend the commission's proposal in the committee on the environment, but to no avail. the proposal before us today does indeed provide for more flexibility. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i hope that during the negotiations between parliament and the council the proposal will still develop in the right direction.
in writing. it is very important to ensure that this framework directive is in line with the principle of subsidiarity and leaves member states a margin of manoeuvre to effectively integrate their particular interests and specificities at national, regional or local level. in particular, the coastline is an area with various characteristics which may warrant different approaches to address its specific characteristics effectively. therefore, a framework directive on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management should leave member states the flexibility to act effectively within a framework of common objectives. this directive should neither hinder the development of maritime spatial planning programmes nor interfere with formal and informal good practices of integrated coastal zone management. i strongly support a framework of procedures to achieve coherent and coordinated maritime spatial planning in all the member states of the union. i would like to stress in particular the importance of crossborder cooperation between member states and third countries. marine basins, marine waters and ecosystems do not know national boundaries and effective planning and management must therefore be implemented in a cross-border manner.
in writing. i agree in principle with the transitional arrangements proposed by the commission as i believe that full application of eu law as soon as possible is the best way forward for the environment, public health and animal welfare on the island. however, in the case of laying hens, and in order to achieve a workable and fair compromise between the investment of the entrepreneurs and the welfare of the animals, we propose that the use of new cages built to the old standards be prohibited, but that the old conventional cages already in use may continue to be used until the end of 2017. one condition will have to be met, namely that eggs from hens reared in the old cages cannot be exported and will be labelled accordingly. a second set of amendments relates to waste water collection systems and the thresholds above which agglomerations will have to set up such systems. these amendments are designed to bring the provisions concerning mayotte into line with the community acquis currently in force in the rest of the european union.
in writing. i am convinced that the european capitals of culture have been, in many respects, a great success. firstly, it is a cultural initiative of great ambition, both in scope and size, which gives the selected cities international prestige. secondly, the large number of applications received each year shows that the initiative motivates citizens and organisations to implement strategies that aim at sustainable development, with a beneficial effect on both the social and economic levels. in addition, the possibility of long-term tourism promotion plays another key role. the new commission proposal for the period 2020-2033 highlights that awarding such a prestigious title can only boost the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors in europe. in a time of general economic crisis, which is particularly damaging to our sense of european belonging, it seems essential to provide incentives for long-term cultural initiatives, provided they are well managed.
in writing. the modernisation of the mahora fleet should be allowed to allow fishing outside the lagoon, where resources are less fragile, and to improve safety and working conditions. the rapporteur stresses the fragile and artisanal nature of the mahoran fleet (boats under 7 metres and only a few over 9 metres) and the lack of port facilities for fishing activities. the catch is landed directly on the beaches. your rapporteur stresses the need to contribute to the development of these infrastructures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission delegated regulation (eu) amending annexes i, ii and iv to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, whereas the commission has stressed that it is essential for parliament to adopt its decision before 16 december 2013, as the delegated regulation needs to be published before 1 january 2014 in order for myanmar/burma to be reintegrated in due time into the gsp scheme and for south sudan to be included.
in writing. recent events in the eu member states, acts of violence against roma, the lack of adequate integration policies, the use of anti-roma rhetoric, structural and systemic discrimination, flagrant violations of the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights, and the lack of judicial investigations and prosecutions in cases of violations of fundamental rights have shown that hostility towards roma is still relevant in the eu and that it needs to be addressed more vigorously at all levels. we therefore call on the commission to set up an effective european-wide monitoring mechanism for roma fundamental rights, anti-roma incidents and hate crimes against roma, and to take strong action - including through infringement procedures, where appropriate - in the event of violations of roma fundamental rights in the member states.
in writing. in view of the deterioration of the situation in ukraine, which has accelerated following the decision of the ukrainian authorities not to sign the association agreement at the vilnius summit on 28 and 29 november 2013, which resulted in large spontaneous popular demonstrations in support of ukraine's european choice on euromaidan in kiev and in cities across ukraine, brutally repressed by the authorities, causing a serious political crisis and raising the threat of alternative solutions involving the use of force, such as the introduction of a state of emergency, we demand the immediate establishment of a new official eu/epp mediation mission at the highest political level, as was the case with the orange revolution of 2004, in order to negotiate the peaceful realization of the demands of the ukrainian people and to guarantee free, fair and democratic elections, as well as the holding of free and fair presidential elections.
in writing. albania has made progress in implementing the 12 key priorities listed in the 2010 commission opinion and the reform process is continuing satisfactorily. it adopted the other essential reform measures still needed in the judicial, parliamentary and public administration areas with consensus of all parties; whereas there are still challenges which need to be addressed rapidly and effectively in order to make further progress towards accession to the european union. however, despite the progress made so far, the new parliamentary term has once again opened with friction between the political forces. these events show that the political forces urgently need to promote the spirit of dialogue, cooperation and compromise, mainly in relations between the two major political forces, but also among all other actors in the country's social life. we encourage the albanian government to continue its efforts to
in writing. among other things, we remind the european council that it has made a political commitment to reach agreement on the single resolution mechanism before the end of the current parliamentary term. we invite them to ask the council of ministers again to ensure that the negotiations on the deposit guarantee directive and on the recovery and resolution framework are concluded before the end of 2013. on emu, the european council must make a political commitment to the implementation, on the basis of the treaties, of legislative preparations for a better coordination of economic policies. we also ask that, on the basis of the improvement in the coordination of economic policies mentioned above, a legal act on 'convergence guidelines' be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, defining, for a given period, a very limited number of objectives for the most urgent reform measures.
in writing. - president. - we shall support this report. the european council in luxembourg on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal to the european parliament that it was ready to take action. this must go hand in hand with the establishment of the social dimension. it is good that the european commission, in its proposal on the social dimension of emu, is incorporating social indicators into the european semester. these should form the basis for the competitiveness and convergence instrument (icc). the instrument must be a positive force. it should encourage the member states, all of us, to carry out difficult but essential structural reforms, with a view to a balanced socioeconomic policy, and in particular with a view to more and better jobs.
in writing. differentiation is both a constitutive feature of the european integration process and a means of ensuring its progress and substantial respect for the principle of equality, understood as the identical treatment of similar situations and the different treatment of non-similar situations. differentiated integration should continue to play a pioneering role in the deepening of european integration in that, initiated by a group of member states, it remains open to all member states with the aim of achieving full integration in the treaties. we therefore hereby reaffirm our desire for a genuine emu which strengthens the european union's competences, particularly in the field of economic policy, increases its budgetary capacity and strengthens the democratic role and responsibility of the commission and the prerogatives of parliament.
in writing. − as the subject of this report is mainly the governance of emu, it would have been better to give the econ committee a more than advisory role. but of course that did not prevent me from voting with conviction for this report by the afco committee, because the final result is ambitious and balanced. with this report, parliament builds on our emu report at the end of last year, on our resolution on the budgetary pact between 25 member states and on many resolutions we have adopted on the legislative dossiers we have dealt with over the last two years. it is also worth stressing the need to complete the banking union in order to restore confidence and boost the economy. the report shows well where we want to go with emu: deepen and broaden. if we want a stable and democratic emu, this is the only way. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the result.
in writing. i believe that in the light of these four years of experience, it is necessary to improve and formalise the working relationship between the european council and parliament: it can take the form of a joint declaration, an interinstitutional agreement or an exchange of letters. i also believe that, except in cases of exceptional urgency, any meeting of the european council should be preceded by a debate in the european parliament, allowing for the adoption of a resolution, with the president of the european council presenting the items on the agenda himself; i believe that parliament and the european council must organise their respective work in such a way as to give parliament the opportunity to make its views known on these matters in good time and to enable the president of the european council to report to the plenary after each european council meeting. i also wonder why the european council meetings are so often held during the weeks of parliament's sitting, which is totally crazy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. i stress that green infrastructure can play a particularly important role in cities, where it can provide services such as improving air quality, mitigating the effect of 'urban heat island' at local level, providing recreational areas, retaining rainwater and fighting flooding, maintaining groundwater levels, restoring biodiversity or curbing its erosion, improving the health and social conditions of citizens and improving the overall quality of life, including through the provision of accessible and affordable spaces for physical activity; stresses the link between green infrastructure and public health and considers that investments in green infrastructure are also good for public health.
in writing. regarding this text, i am nonetheless concerned that the banking sector sent a stronger request for liquidity to the eurosystem in 2012, so that it is even more dependent on the eurosystem's interventions, and warns against the risks of such dependence. i am also deeply concerned about the transfer of risk from distressed banks and governments to the ecb's balance sheet as a result of the ecb's decision to buy short-term sovereign debt securities in 'unlimited' quantities; stresses that long-term refinancing operations (ltros) do not provide a fundamental solution to the crisis...
in writing. i support this resolution as i support the parliament's call for greater transparency and stronger controls to prevent the eu institutions, bodies and agencies, and their intermediaries, from using non-cooperative foreign countries and territories, commonly known as 'tax havens', which are characterised by the absence of taxes or by low taxes, the absence of effective exchange of information with foreign tax authorities and a lack of transparency in legislative, judicial or administrative provisions, or recognised as such by the oecd or the financial action task force.
author. - mr president, i would first like to pay tribute to the two french soldiers who died in the central african republic and tell you how much i regret today that, after more than a year of warning from mrs georgieva and the external action service, it has taken so long to get a resolution - resolution 2127 - at the united nations, which is certainly fundamental for finally getting something in motion to protect the central african republic. we knew and we know that there was a threat of genocide, with all the attendant atrocities. we knew, and yet it took a long time today for something to happen. i've heard things that are unacceptable to my group. i have heard people say, "yes, françafrique is rising again, etc"., about the french action. i would say that i am very measured in relation to military actions and interventions but this time france has only heard what so many people have told us for so long.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, organ harvesting always arouses rumours and fantasies, but it may also evoke a terrible reality. it is our duty, and it is our responsibility as members of parliament, to distinguish carefully between rumours and reality. the trade in organs is now one of the least regulated in the world. the demand is growing and far exceeds the supply, hence grey areas, without regulation, where all practices are possible without being illegal and, on the other hand, criminal practices also exist, combining human trafficking, adoption, kidnapping, etc. in some lands it is common to sell organs and to harvest them from living creatures for religious reasons, for example, because they cannot be harvested from the dead. this is the case in india where poor people sell corneas, kidneys, etc. but such practices are also found in latin america. in some cases, as in austria and belgium, it is legal to harvest organs from the dead, regardless of the cause of death, without consulting anyone. only four countries in africa have legislation on organ harvesting and only two in asia, sri lanka and indonesia. china is not a member of the wto and is therefore in a grey area. for our group, we have two certainties. the first is that china largely uses executed political prisoners for its organs. but i am like mr tannock, we are unable to say whether their execution is related to a need for organs or whether they were executed, and we are against the death penalty. we find no evidence of any particular persecution of falun gong, as evidenced by the detailed report of the new zealand house of representatives, which has extensively investigated this issue and which i put at your disposal. that is why, in our soul and conscience, our group has decided to abstain on this resolution. we have not signed the resolution but we are prepared to work with the council of europe on this matter, which is an extremely sensitive and extremely thorny matter. however, this must be done not in an emergency but in the conscience of parliamentarians.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would simply like to ask my colleague a question which we have asked ourselves a lot in our group: from what source do you draw the link between the execution and the demand for organs? you say, "they're being executed based on the demand for organs". can you tell me, and i'd be happy to know, for the information of our group, where you got this evidence, from a reliable source anyway?
question for the council i would like to extend the comments made by my colleague, mrs veronique de keyser, and some of those made by our colleague, mr tannock. last week, outside the european parliament, for three days, falun gong practitioners distributed disks, cds, documents. the fact that sri lanka is treated as an emergency is normal, the fact that the central african republic is treated as an emergency is normal, and there could be many others. but who decides what is urgent in this parliament? is it the presence of sectarian lobbyists in front of parliament last week or is it the facts that are being supported? while none of the human rights organizations we usually consult or who consult us... (the president withdrew the speaker)
the question is "blue cardboard". ms. korhola, since you cited the sources, did you have a chance to read the november 2013 opinion, which is very recent, from the new zealand house of representatives, which says, about falun gong, that there is no independent evidence of organ harvesting, that they have been looking at foreign sources, at the un department, at the ngos, at the un special rapporteur on torture and all of this is quoted from and that they find no independent evidence of this organ harvesting from falun gong? it's serious, though, right?
mr president, in continuing with what i said earlier, i would like to add that china would have many opportunities to be on the emergency agenda. let's not misunderstand what i said earlier. however, whenever human rights are mentioned for some countries, it is for objective facts - today, for central africa, sri lanka - which are supported by crimes, but also supported by international organizations whose job it is to detect where there are human rights problems, whether it is human rights watch, the international federation for human rights, but also amnesty international and many others. we endorse, by holding a debate, this kind of reporting which is supported here - i repeat and regret it - by the presence of what i call a sect - falun gong. their presence in parliament for three days last week, handing out leaflets, is enough to establish an emergency, whereas, as véronique de keyser said, a report, notably from the new zealand assembly, among others, does not support the facts, does not necessarily give them credit. so i have my doubts as to why this urgency has come up in this debate today.
