madam speaker, i rise as the youngest man in this parliament and the chairman of a party whose membership is over 80% under 30. i do not want to speak in general terms, as i have heard many of them so far in the debate, so i will point out a specific specific problem to the commission. many companies require that when a young person starts work, he or she has previous work experience. and i ask how can a student or a student who has just graduated have work experience? so the young man can't get a job because he has no work experience, and he has no work experience because he can't get a job. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to ensure that when companies use european funds to create jobs for young people, you oblige them not to impose any requirement for previous work experience, because that is, in my view, hidden discrimination and, in fact, if things continue as they are, the objective of what we are talking about will not be achieved.
in writing. i commend the commission for the proposals in the employment package, because they are ambitious and decisive. europe needs such bold and decisive steps today. i say this with real concern as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria, the country with the highest percentage of young people (aged 15-24) in the eu who are either unemployed or without education or vocational qualifications. at the same time, we have critically high unemployment, a contraction of small and medium-sized businesses, and mass exodus from the country with no intention of returning. unfortunately, this is not a sign of european mobility in the positive sense of the word or of strengthening the european single market, but a sign of the mismatch between the needs of the local labour market and the vocational qualifications obtained by the educational institutions. today, more than ever, we have a duty to help the younger generation, and the youth guarantee is one of the most successful and proven instruments. it guarantees minimum initial employment; quality apprenticeships and training for young unemployed people and enables them to help themselves, which is of utmost importance in the difficult situation of the labour market. we must support anything that will give confidence and jobs to our young people.
in writing. i believe that the european commission's proposal for member states to introduce a youth guarantee would go from being a good initiative to a working instrument if there was a strong commitment not only at national but also at european level. at present there are many open questions on the actual application of this guarantee in and by the member states themselves. the integration of young people out of work and increasing their competitiveness on the labour market, as well as supporting the transition from education to employment, are among the most important objectives to be achieved by member states, but this would not be possible without the use of an additional esf resource containing efficiency and effectiveness indicators. my opinion is based on the experience my country already has in implementing a similar mechanism with national and european funding, in implementation of the national employment strategy and the 'work for youth' initiative in bulgaria, providing opportunities for traineeships, further training and work, as a result of which over 50% of young people move into permanent employment. in this respect, i believe that the commission should commit itself and give clear guidance on the funding opportunities it will provide, so that there is full participation of all stakeholders. thank you, thank you!
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, also on behalf of the whole commission, for these excellent reports. in the light of the negotiations currently taking place between the council and parliament, these reports make a very valuable contribution to the best possible management of the challenges of territorial cooperation, urban areas and energy policy. the broad support for your reports in committee is a strong signal from parliament. i am glad that the commission and parliament are on the same page on the main issues. the territorial aspect of regional policy is of central importance for the new regional policy. mr cozzolino once again underlines the central importance of cities and urban spaces, but also of surrounding regions, for the successful implementation of our common europe 2020 growth goals. whether we are talking about resource efficiency, a low-carbon economy or strengthening europe's innovation hub, cities have a prominent role to play and must be included. it is therefore essential for me - and i repeat, we will insist in the negotiations - that governments, in the spirit of multi-level governance, involve the regional and local levels, as well as non-governmental organisations, in the preparation of programming. so, as i said, planning and implementation on as broad a basis as possible. we need to make the people who are affected, involved. but cities also need the tools to do so. we therefore insist on the proposal that at least 5% of erdf resources should be used for integrated urban development projects designed by the cities themselves. i would like to point out that: this 5% relates to these integrated territorial initiatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the comprehensive and integrated approach is underlined in several reports. the common strategic framework will ensure that. the partnership agreement will play a central role in this by presenting the complex challenges of specific areas, which can be addressed in a targeted and flexible manner by the proposed instruments, such as community-led local development instruments. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. i can assure you that my directorate-general is working very hard to provide concrete guidance to member states and administrations as soon as possible. but i also agree with you that we need to pay even more attention to building administrative capacity in the coming period. here we have a shared responsibility with the member states to ensure that the funds are used in a way that creates growth and jobs. the same applies, of course, to sustainable energy policy. i thank mrs kolarska-bobińska for her impressive report and can assure you that i share her view of the importance of cohesion policy for energy policy. we also need tailor-made solutions in energy policy to meet the specific challenges of each region, in energy efficiency as well as in renewable energy. in conclusion, allow me to say a few words on the report by mrs estaràs ferragut on the solidarity fund. in its 10 years of existence, it has helped 23 member states and candidate countries in 49 disasters, with a total of eur 3.1 billion. europe is a community of solidarity, and i am glad and grateful that we have a similar instrument in the solidarity fund. but i also believe that we can make this instrument even better and more efficient. i thank mrs estaràs ferragut for her report, which sets out the european parliament's position on the reform of the solidarity fund in response to the commission's communication of october 2011. we will come forward with a very specific legislative proposal in the near future and ask for your support today. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you again for your work and for your excellent cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to do that, we need the best support we can get. we therefore need to further optimise coherence between policies and instruments, to involve those who are affected and to take even more account of local and regional needs. as in the past, i am counting on the european parliament, on you, as a strong partner in the future negotiations.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the coordination of social security schemes in the member states. - madam president, commissioner, with the treaty of lisbon, territorial cohesion has become a fundamental objective of the european union. mr vaughan's report provides guidance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and those of the europe 2020 strategy, as you mentioned. the common rules regulation and the common strategic framework provide the basis for the interaction and coordination of the european funds. opportunities for community-led local development and integrated territorial investment support sustainable impacts on local communities. the implementation of projects under different funds would result in a better impact of the investments made. the bottom-up approach, ensuring that the potential of territories is exploited, should be actively implemented, together with the participation of all stakeholders in the planning of regional and local development policies and strategies. administrative capacity for local partners needs to be improved and the administrative burden associated with project application and implementation needs to be reduced.
mr president, it is extremely tragicomic how much is being proposed and done in the name of the european citizens, and at the same time how much the citizens feel more and more insecure about what is happening, how much they are more and more fed up with these new and new administrative rules that are constantly poured over their heads. the citizens don't want more legislation. the citizens don't want more regulation. the citizens who come into direct contact with the european institutions are a handful of people. the others have sufficiently well-established procedures in their national legislation and bodies which in fact mainly apply european provisions. the only thing that could come out of this new regulation is even more federalisation, even more frustration of citizens with the european project and even more rights for the administration, because the administration is best placed to use the loopholes that exist in such procedures to refuse citizens. and this is particularly true of the european bureaucracy.
dear mr. chairman, dear colleagues, for the first time in 23 years of transition in bulgaria, the transparent and democratic conduct of elections is being called into question, as changes to the electoral code are about to be adopted "in the dark". they increase the unconstitutional period of sedentary rule for applicants from 6 to 12 months, which is discriminatory. the presence and parity of opposition representatives in the governing bodies of the section electoral commissions is called into question, which puts the other political parties at a disadvantage, and the danger of manipulation and falsification of votes at the level of electoral commissions is inevitable. the code does not comply with the core osce recommendations of a binding nature. it is an eloquent fact that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe also took special note of the amendments to the code and not by chance postponed the end of the post-monitoring mechanism for bulgaria. this behaviour of the rulers is unacceptable and outrageous, undermining bulgaria's democratic development and posing a serious threat to its european future.
mr president, commissioner shevcovich, i will start with the latest statistics from the bulgarian sociology, which show that for the first time since our country joined the european union, there are more people who think that bulgaria loses from eu membership than those who think that bulgaria gains from it. this is combined with a piece of information that came out in the press today that the european commission is preparing to impose a ban on the use of rose oil in cosmetics. bulgaria is the number one producer of rose oil and holds 40% of the world production of this product, which is vital for cosmetics. not to mention that cosmetics is one of the main and major european industries. this industry has a three-hundred-year history in bulgaria and this will affect even more negatively the attitudes of the people towards the european union, because they only see this: bans, the withdrawal of livelihoods, tens of thousands of people without jobs. so, commissioner, get your paws off the bulgarian rose!
in writing. i supported the report because the union's strategy for the horn of africa must be distinguished by its pragmatism and relevance. our priorities must be focused on three levels of action: national, regional and international. at national level, local authorities must support and develop three key sectors: stable democratically elected institutions, agriculture and youth. the central issues of safety, health and education must not be neglected. at regional level, partners need to focus on better coordination, strong and implemented policy decisions and a clear division of responsibilities. at the level of the european union, we must continue to support the states of the horn of africa in their efforts to achieve democratic transition, conflict resolution and peace-building and economic growth. the function of the eu special representative for the horn of africa must be filled with content that lives up to expectations. this international support must give priority to concrete actions to ensure peace and political stability, economic development and the defence of human rights.
mr. chairman, i want to start by saying that i support and will vote for this report because it expands control over credit agencies. but i would like to ask the following question to the commission and to all of us colleagues. we have to ask ourselves the following question: why didn't we adopt these new rules for credit rating agencies when we adopted the regulation in 2009? why did we lose those four years for european citizens, for the european economy? there's been a lot of talk here about mistakes made by the credit rating agencies. didn't we have data that it wasn't mistakes, but in many cases criminal behavior on the part of these private institutions to deliberately falsify data, to deliberately raise the ratings of large companies and corporations that were on the verge of bankruptcy, which ultimately brought about the global economic crisis on the entire planet. so to fight the crisis, we need to show that we have changed our mindset, that we are moving faster towards fixing the problems.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee because such an initiative by the european union is a strong political message of solidarity and support that we send to young europeans. the proposal is mainly to establish a european action plan to ensure that young people receive quality education and training. in this way, the youth guarantee is an instrument which commits member states to implement policies which ensure the competitiveness of young europeans. this will open up additional doors to them to enter the world of work. in this way, the initiative contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives because through the commitment, dynamism, courage and initiative of young europeans we can ensure the growth and prosperity of the eu. it is the young who are the key to overcoming the crisis and to our common future. we must invest in our future, in our youth!
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee because such an initiative by the european union is a strong political message of solidarity and support that we send to young europeans. the proposal is mainly to establish a european action plan to ensure that young people receive quality education and training. in this way, the youth guarantee is an instrument which commits member states to implement policies which ensure the competitiveness of young europeans. this will open up additional doors to them to enter the world of work. in this way, the initiative contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives because through the commitment, dynamism, courage and initiative of young europeans we can ensure the growth and prosperity of the eu. it is the young who are the key to overcoming the crisis and to our common future. we must invest in our future, in our youth!
in writing. − the new budget allocates significantly more resources to the energy sector than previous budgets and represents a decisive step towards greater energy security for the european union. this is also directly linked to the diversification of energy sources that supports the 'low-carbon economy'. i support the report mainly because it supports the decentralisation of energy sources within the framework of cohesion policy. secondly, because of its regional approach, as the report acknowledges that there is no single model for application in all eu regions. i am therefore against attempts to impose uniformity in the implementation of certain aspects of this policy. energy diversity requires that the many regional actors in europe - regardless of differences in administrations, capacities and experience - are able to benefit from the availability of different development programmes. the exclusive focus on individual aspects of cohesion and energy policy (such as global warming) can sometimes prevent us from making an unbiased assessment of the eu's real state of affairs. i say again that any step towards greater energy security and independence - and this report certainly is one - must always receive our support.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a more specific form of corruption in today's debate. so far, all the speakers have been talking about abuses mainly of diverting or stealing euro funds, but there is another form of abuse which is through a much more subtle manipulation of the use of euro funds, which is very much in line with the topic of the current debate, namely influence on the political decision-making process. i'd like to pay special attention to the media relationship. the european parliament has repeatedly addressed the issue of corruption in the media, influence on the media, media freedom and specifically for bulgaria and romania. but i want to offer you two examples. and, mr. barnier, i'm going to ask you to listen to me. i guess you should put your headphones on. the first example is from the newspaper "sega" by svetoslav terziev, where it says: "bulgaria distorts the legislation of the european union and finances the appeasement of the rulers. ministers pour european money into selected electronic media under the pretext that they promote european programmes. 14 million leva (or 7 million euros approximately) will be distributed without public procurement to the most influential tv and radio stations to digest the elections. (bulgaria has elections in 4 months). and in this very sensitive period of media freedom - which has already been detected by freedom house and reporters without borders that bulgaria has dropped to 80th place in this indicator - there is an initiative by your colleague nelly cruz on this issue. but despite all these problems addressed to the bulgarian government, and especially the remarks made by the european commission, such a moment of non-transparent funding is achieved. the second case is also from today, from the bgnes news agency, where it says: the european commission has asked the bulgarian authorities to do their own investigation whether the money from the eu funds was allocated to a music company pyner in accordance with the rules. and this is what spokesperson shirin wheeler said in reference to today's news in the bulgarian press. this company, by the way, is known for funding extremely raunchy and vulgar music videos and questionable music culture, which makes me ask you the question: will there be a time when we will also finance the porn industry in europe with european money, because it is part of european culture?
mr president, mr commissioner, if we do not tackle corruption, the policies we are trying to make for financial stability, economic growth and social guarantees will lose their meaning and be doomed to failure. and i'm addressing the council today: maybe it's time to drop the diplomatic tone and include anti-corruption measures in the next summits? today bulgaria and romania are under surveillance for corruption, organised crime and judicial reform by the european commission. the obviously bad results are the reason why bulgaria is suspended from schengen, for example. but are these two countries the only ones with a corruption problem? is this mechanism effective enough, given that it has deepened in our country in the last three years? two are the major issues on the agenda for all member states and require urgent solutions. first of all, there are public procurement and the misuse of european funds. in my country, in bulgaria, people no longer believe that there can be transparent rules. abuses in the field of agriculture, in the field of the rural development programme, are particular. there, orders and projects are known long before the calls for tenders are announced. the projects are won by companies close to the government, indirectly financing the ruling party. it's not going to get the money to the people it's supposed to. all this undermines trust in both national and european institutions. the second major problem is political corruption, vote buying, which is already undermining the very foundations of democracy, as happened in bulgaria in 2011. i therefore welcome the european commission's reports which we will see at the end of the year, the reform of the olaf and the european public prosecutor. but i ask you all: will this be enough, or are more severe sanctions needed?
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, this debate is important. as meps, we have a duty to ensure that european taxpayers' money is spent properly. we need strong european institutions, common regulatory legislation and, of course, a european prosecutor's office with the power to enforce law at european level. but there's one big catch. unfortunately, my bulgarian colleagues here have abused this important debate for electoral purposes in bulgaria, spreading false rumors about misuse of european funds in bulgaria without any evidence whatsoever. i can say that quite frankly to you. bulgaria has had one of the lowest rates of errors with european funds in the european union for several years. there's a serious control of the funds from the european union, enhanced cooperation with olaf. there was no abuse in the case that was mentioned earlier. just because i and many of us don't like a certain music, that doesn't mean it shouldn't or can't be funded with european funds. i had no intention of speaking, but it is important that this important debate on europe, on european citizens, is not used for electoral purposes in one or another member state, but that when there is really evidence, it is put on the table before the national institutions, and of course before the european institutions, and that decisions are taken in the interests of european citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. dear commissioner, dear colleagues, unfortunately, as it has become clear, there has been no significant progress on the mercosur-eu free trade agreement due to a lack of political momentum and commitment. in addition, existing regulatory measures by some countries further impede the progress of these negotiations. these are supply restrictions, the imposition of export duties, restrictions on certain agricultural products, etc. as well as the use of 'non-automatic licences', it is expected to cost eu exporters almost €45 million. negotiations are further hampered by the argentine government's decision to re-establish control over the energy sector. in this way, argentina is violating its commitment as a g20 member to fight protectionism and to keep markets open for trade and investment, and it also sends a negative signal to foreign investors in the country. despite these shortcomings, it should be stressed that there is and is expected to be a benefit. both regions are committed to respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and share common languages. in addition, the interregional agreement is expected to create benefits of eur 4,5 billion for each of the parties. we liberals believe that human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, should be an integral part of this free trade agreement. if the european union is to achieve coherence in its external action, to reflect its economic interests and to promote its core values, clearer and more substantial political commitments must be made at the forthcoming summit between the european union and the community of latin american and caribbean states. in conclusion, honourable members, alde calls for a more transparent and consistent approach by the commission to overcome the obstacles that block the achievement of a win-win agreement between the two parties.
mr president, unfortunately, as my colleagues have already mentioned, the case of the 23-year-old indian girl is not an isolated one. every year we are informed about numerous cases of rape or other acts of violence against women in india, and those are just the official statistics. it is highly probable that the actual numbers are much higher. it is amazing that the biggest democratic country in the world seems to be the most dangerous place for women. it is commendable at the same time that there was a strong reaction from civil society in december last year and that the protests continue. europe needs to send a clear signal to the indian government and urge it to find a comprehensive solution addressing these serious problems. so i support this resolution. we should support radical measures and policies and at the same time offer assistance. this is far from being complacent or paternalistic, as we also have experience in addressing similar problems.
in writing. the political, security and humanitarian crisis in the central african republic is alarming and requires concrete measures to be taken without further delay. this crisis must be resolved peacefully and negotiations must take place in the spirit of constructive political dialogue. efforts must be made in terms of defending human rights, reforming the central african army, preserving humanitarian aid and managing revenues from natural resources, particularly minerals. in addition, the parties must commit themselves to respecting the agreements reached and to ensuring political dialogue. i also welcome the mediation efforts of the african union and the eec/acp which have made it possible to reach a ceasefire and the resumption of negotiations. this regional support must be channelled into other key areas: military support, development of mechanisms to monitor agreements, and assistance to refugee populations. finally, the commission and the eeas should promote the implementation of a comprehensive peacebuilding strategy. to do this, our actions for the central african republic must focus on reforming its army and organising free, transparent and credible elections, including by sending an election observation mission.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i think that everybody in this house can only agree fully with what the chair of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has just said. it is true that one in five women in europe has suffered physical violence at least once in their life, and one out of 10 has suffered forced sexual violence. this is unacceptable because it is brutal manifestation of gender inequality – the member is right – and it is a violation of human rights that europe cannot ignore. that is the reason why we are committed to combating all forms of violence against women within the territory of the european union and in its external relations policies. the european union will thus fully support the global efforts of the united nations to achieve gender equality, in particular by eliminating all forms of violence. we regret that the united nations’ member states have been unable reach a consensual outcome at the 2012 session of the un commission on the status of women. no results were achieved, and we cannot really accept such an outcome. the elimination of violence against women is one of the priorities of the women’s charter and of the commission’s strategy which are on the table in this house. they underline our key priorities: improving knowledge about these problems, legislative action where we have the possibility to take legislative action, the exchange of good practices, the empowerment of women, awareness-raising and funding. as far as legislative action is concerned, the union has adopted effective measures in the field of criminal and civil justice. let me remind you of the directive on trafficking in human beings – which adopts a gender-specific approach to trafficking – as well as the directive against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, the directive on the european protection order applicable to criminal matters and the directive on the rights of victims of crime. why do i underline these directives? because it is the first time that the european union, which now has the power not only to speak but also to act, has not only made declarations but has presented solid legal proposals: law with which we can help women in all situations of life all over the european union. let us look just at the victims of crime directive. this is a real breakthrough for victims of crime and for women who have fallen victim to violence, because it guarantees the rights of those victims wherever they are in europe. they have to be treated with respect by authorities, to receive information about their rights, their case, to receive proper support, and to participate in proceedings if they wish, for example by attending the trial. victims of gender violence will benefit from this, and authorities will have to identify vulnerable victims, such as victims of rape, and give them proper protection while the police investigate and while the courts prosecute. so it is a real breakthrough which has been obtained. we are not only saying repeatedly what we want, we are also taking action. this is important for women, and i am sure that this law will have a very positive impact on the treatment of victims, especially on women suffering from various forms of violence and sexual crime. the eu’s approach on victims’ rights has also been recognised outside the european union as an example to follow. i can tell you the last time that this happened. we have just had a meeting with the prosecutors’ offices and justice ministries of the eastern partner countries on victim protection. everybody around us thinks that this is the way to proceed: the more groups of countries around the european union that have these kinds of very strong legal possibilities for women, the better it will be. we have also proposed a european protection order to make sure that women who are victims of violence in their homes are better protected. this will complete the existing eu legislation in the field of penal law in order to ensure that a restraining order issued against a violent partner in one member state can be automatically recognised in another member state. it is about protecting women who are vulnerable. the member is so right in saying that they stay trembling inside their houses while not exercising their right to move around freely, to go to another member state. we have to stop this infringement of the normal freedom of any human being, including women who may be under stress from a violent partner. i call on the negotiators in parliament and in the council to reach an agreement as soon as possible on the european protection order as a civil law mechanism to provide women with better protection throughout europe. but passing laws alone is not sufficient to safeguard the rights of victims. in order for these laws to be effective they must be implemented, and the member states must transpose the laws as a matter of priority in order to benefit millions of europeans. the commission assists member states in implementing these laws, but it is also very vigilant in ensuring that member states transpose and apply the laws correctly. i also call on the member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. we should all speak up in our member states and explain to the media why this has not been done, and ask this question of our different governments. the commission will also continue to develop targeted and consistent initiatives to support member states in achieving tangible results. further legislation is being drafted, for instance, on projects at grassroots level to combat violence against women. this is currently being done via the daphne programme, and will continue with the forthcoming rights, equality and citizenship programme currently under negotiation in the multiannual financial framework. when we speak about violence there is also hidden violence, for instance, female genital mutilation. fgm is a form of gender-based violence and the world health organisation has estimated that in the european union there are roughly half a million women and girls who have been through fgm. this may even be an underestimate as it fails to take into consideration second-generation migrants and those who are not accounted for. we should be very clear on this: fgm can under no circumstances be justified by cultural or religious traditional practices. our member states must prohibit this. i urge you all to encourage this prohibition and to encourage people to abandon this practice in the member states. last year the european parliament unanimously adopted a resolution to end fgm in the european union. this year we are moving to action. on 6 march 2013 the commission will launch a series of activities, at european and national level, to support the fight against fgm and to uphold the rights of women victims of violence. there will be a round-table discussion and a public consultation to eradicate female genital mutilation both within and outside the european union. turning now to matters outside the european union, this is also a priority under the strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy. the action plan supports initiatives to counteract gender-based violence, feminicide and harmful traditional practices and to prevent early and forced marriages. i very much count on the eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, who comes from this house and who i am sure will contribute to the implementation of this action plan. we continue to work on implementing the eu guidelines on violence against women and girls and the guidelines on children in armed conflict via the eu’s delegations and the member states’ embassies around the world. we are actively contributing to the global effort at un level. one of the main objectives is to address the political, religious, cultural and social obstacles that hamper women’s full enjoyment of their civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights. they are enshrined in the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination. we are active in the implementation of the united nations security council resolutions on women, peace and security. a memorandum of understanding between the eu and un women was signed in 2012. one of the priorities is to end violence against women, we are developing with the united nations a common programme on ending violence against women for 2013 and we are looking at opportunities for a wider collaboration in 2013-2014. we also support the work of ms manjoo, the united nations special rapporteur on violence against women and the un agenda for women’s empowerment, the beijing platform for action. i could continue the list, but i can tell you i have spoken to all my colleagues who are responsible for external affairs. some of them are female commissioners, and they really take these issues seriously and really implement the ‘women factor’ and address the question of violence against women in all the activities and the bilateral talks they have when they are outside the european union. the conclusion adopted by the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) in december 2012 is a good preparation for the beijing platform for action and the eu commitment on this. i hope that this time at the united nations we can avoid the north-south division which characterised the 2012 session. having said that, we will nevertheless remain firm in defending the gender equality acquis from any attempt to weaken it. we will also organise side events focusing on the regional approaches to eliminating violence against women and girls. when we are together at the united nations session, all the europeans there will make a ‘team europe’. we will go out as a real team and say ‘here is what we are doing, here is how we can help you; we will help you to help yourselves’.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate you, vice-president reding, on your efforts and your commitment to the elimination and prevention of violence against women. it is high time that women stop being subjected to violence simply because they are women. violence against women is a serious violation of human rights. we must indeed strengthen our actions; the european union can and must continue to play a proactive role. the resolution will help us to express our contribution by clearly defining priorities and proposing concrete actions. you just said it. our action must continue to focus on several levels: the european level, the member states' level, the international level. at european level, we have developed, with the commission, important and concrete instruments. you mentioned them, mrs reding: the victims package, the eu guidelines for the elimination of trafficking in human beings, the daphne programme, the european strategy for the elimination of violence against women. i would like to congratulate you, mrs reding, on your initiative to organise a round table on the subject of female genital mutilation and its elimination within and outside our borders. we must do everything possible to ensure that all these instruments are effectively applied in the member states to achieve meaningful results. it is important that member states sign and ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of violence against women. this instrument will allow for greater coordination of actions at international level and facilitate the sharing of good practice. finally, let me also remind you that the defence of human rights and our founding values in the european union is also ensured by the european union's special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis. it is important that you continue to cooperate with the un special rapporteur on violence against women, mrs manjoo, to ensure that the policies and actions undertaken are coordinated and effective. in conclusion, i would like to say that the resolution we are about to vote on in this house is a strong political message to our citizens and to citizens all over the world. we can thus affirm our commitment to the elimination and prevention of violence against women, not only in statements but above all in deeds.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, today's debate is of great importance in addressing not only the rights of half of the eu’s citizens, but also regarding the values and principles on which the union is based. the estimated annual cost of violence against women is eur 34 billion, while domestic violence alone costs eu member states eur 16 billion each year according to council of europe data – figures that are hard to ignore in the context of a severe economic and financial crisis. this issue has been discussed for years, and despite major advances in drafting international standards and norms to address the phenomenon of violence against women, progress on the implementation side has been clearly insufficient. leadership is needed now more than ever, leadership at all levels – local, national and international – and by all sectors, including decision-makers, business leaders, civil society organisations and community leaders. we believe, madam commissioner, that you will be as committed on the issue of violence against women as you are on the quota issue. thank you very much, by the way, on that one. we know that the eu and its member states have an important role to play, and we should be at the forefront of international efforts to combat violence against women, as we were with global efforts to stop climate change and strive for a more sustainable future. is the wellbeing of women a less important cause? in order to achieve this, we also need to step up our domestic effort to eliminate violence against women. it is vital that the european commission comes up with an eu strategy on violence against women, that all member states sign and ratify the council of europe convention, and that addressing gender-based violence becomes a conditionality criterion for access to humanitarian and development aid. such efforts would certainly increase our credibility on the international scene. millions of women and girls are assaulted, beaten, raped, mutilated, murdered, and trafficked on an everyday basis. i am sure that this chamber shares my belief that, in the 21st century, we cannot remain tolerant to such a massive abuse of human rights. we should be ambitious and press the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women (csw) to adopt a set of forward-looking conclusions that will ensure the economic, social and political empowerment of women and the protection of their human rights. madam commissioner, we believe that there is a crucial and leading role for eu institutions. we will be a driving force for the conclusion of the un csw.
mr. chairman, six years ago i caused a certain uproar among my colleagues when i sent them a letter regarding the situation of roma girls in bulgaria. and to this day, that situation has not changed. markets continue to be held annually where ten-year-old girls are sold as cattle to be forced into forced marriages, where they are raped, marginalized, cut off from education and eventually forcibly converted into drug addicts or beggars or prostitutes. i strongly disagree. it's practiced only by the roma population in bulgaria. i strongly disagree that such a medieval cultural tradition can be practiced just because it is supposedly a 'cultural' tradition, in violation of all our european values. right, fellows?
madam president, as one of the youngest members of this parliament, i can tell you that when we talk about active and healthy ageing in bulgaria, there is a grotesque tinge to this conversation. a few days ago, our colleague mr farage stirred up quite a stir with a statement of his concerning bulgaria and romania. but as controversial as his statement was, it contained a truth that i will repeat again, because i have said it many times in this parliament: bulgarian pensioners, my dear colleagues, receive an average of 100 euros a month. many of them are obliged to continue working beyond retirement because the other choice is misery and starvation. for them, 'active ageing' means nothing until their economic situation has improved dramatically. and unfortunately, i don't see the european union, which bulgaria still gives more money to than it gets back, doing anything about it at the moment.
rapporteur. − madam president, the transparency of measures regulating the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products in the union is currently governed by a directive which is almost 25 years old, and the commission has rightly identified loopholes and delays to be addressed. the pharmaceutical market has significantly evolved since 1989, and so have patients’ needs. at the same time, the financial sustainability of national health-care systems has been put under greater pressure by the combined effect of the economic crisis and the ageing of our population, of which we have just spoken. i would like to thank you, commissioner, and your hard-working staff for having presented this legislative proposal and for maintaining a constant dialogue among institutions on this dossier. it was, firstly, essential and fully relevant to include in this proposal the main conclusion of the 2007 pharmaceutical sector inquiry led by dg competition. furthermore, the delays in the pricing and reimbursement of medicines that have come to light, and which can sometimes reach more than 700 days, are not acceptable. i am convinced that fair practices in our pharmaceutical market would also be beneficial to patients and national healthcare systems. the european parliament has demonstrated its willingness to play an active role in the drawing up of this legislation with a report strongly supported by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety last december. we have also heard the concerns raised by several stakeholders, including national delegations within the council. we are presenting significant changes to the initial proposal, which included some provisions, such as the pre-notification of draft national measures or the remedies procedures, that did not appear to be proportionate to the objectives pursued. our objective has been to strike a balance between the need to set up common transparency and procedural requirements while guaranteeing legal certainty and flexibility for competent national authorities with one principle in mind: accessibility and affordability of medicines for all. we therefore call for clear timelines for the pricing and reimbursement of innovative products, with the opportunity to use health technology assessments. two other key elements for the financial sustainability of national healthcare systems are the shortened timelines for generic medicines and the non-interference of intellectual property rights with pricing and reimbursement procedures. new provisions have also been introduced by the european parliament for more transparency in the decision-making process with the requirement to publish experts’ names and declarations of interest as well as an annual list of set prices for products. i know that discussions within the council are more than difficult, and i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our willingness to engage in a constructive way and to come up with an optimal proposal which could ultimately bring significant progress for the efficiency of national healthcare systems. of course member states are, and should remain, fully responsible for regulating the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. but this does not change the fact that we need to set transparent and fair rules on how these decisions are taken, since they will affect both the functioning of the internal market and the accessibility and availability of treatment for patients. i would like to conclude by thanking all colleagues, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their fruitful cooperation. let me also thank the commission as well as the cyprus and irish presidencies for their hard work, which i hope will bear fruit in the future to the benefit of all. thank you very much for your attention. i am very keen to listen to this debate and to be able to take it into account going forward.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many people have pointed out, with some criticism, how ambitious the commission was in presenting the proposal for the reform of the directive. yes, perhaps we have been ambitious, i have been ambitious, and the criticism offsets the other criticisms we receive when parliament says that the commission is not ambitious enough. this time, however, we went further. i think i can say, however, that i have never had the thought of violating the principle of subsidiarity, which i recognize and respect and which i consider to be fundamental to our european union. i would say that we have always been, even in the original text, within the limits of respect for this very important principle. but i cannot, at the end of this debate, fail to reiterate my total willingness to accept the compromise text drawn up under the coordination of the rapporteur, mr parvanova. as i said at the beginning of the debate, the commission regards the rapporteur's proposals as positive. when you try to be ambitious, compromise leads to being right anyway. if i had not been ambitious in my proposal, we might be discussing a text today that is less useful to our citizens, our businesses and our member states. i believe that if this text is then adopted by the council - and i am responding to the request made by mr rübig with the blue card - it will certainly also bring benefits to employment. so this is a text that goes in many directions, but above all it goes in the direction of protecting the interests of our fellow citizens. the commission's position on the amendments the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 5, 6, 9, 12, 19, 24, 34, 37, 38, 39, 43, 49, 51, 57, 58, 59 and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the commission can accept amendments 3, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 40, 41, 42, 44 (1), 45, 46, 48, 53, 54, 55, 56 in principle. the commission is also prepared to accept amendments nos 3, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 40, 41, 42, 44 and 55 in principle. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1, 4, 8, 27, 36, 44 and 2 and 47, 50, 52, 60, 61, 62, 63, and 64.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me first thank you for all your contributions tonight. our debate demonstrates that we are fully committed to making progress on this proposal. i hope that our vote on wednesday will send a clear and constructive message to the commission and especially to the council. just one word ahead of this vote, regarding amendment 1 from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) which introduces a dual legal basis for the proposed directive. while recognising a public health dimension, i would recommend that we follow the opinion of the european parliament’s legal service and that of the committee on legal affairs (juri) and stick to the single legal basis proposed by the commission. i fully understand some of the concerns raised tonight and i am confident that a continued dialogue amongst the institutions is the solution towards achieving an optimal legislative framework which would respond to the needs of all stakeholders involved, whether they are patients or authorities or pharmaceutical companies. but we have to bear in mind that the timelines – an ambitious proposal, in fact – are crucially important for the accessibility of drugs. i would also like to mention that while working on the clinical trials directive i have noticed that there are shorter timelines in the clinical trials for the committees to decide whether a drug should be registered, in comparison with the timelines that the same or other authorities – with the same experts – need just to register a price or just to register a drug and put it on a list for reimbursement. i believe that there should be some fairness and parity in this. i believe that the status quo is not the answer, and just looking back at some recent developments at national level we have seen issues raised in france regarding the reimbursement of products for which the therapeutic added value and the safety profile have been seriously questioned. we still have numerous cases of patent linkage delaying the entry of generics in portugal, and last week the commission sent an objection following the pay-for-delay case and anti-competitive practices in pharmaceutical companies observed in the netherlands. these recent cases are yet more evidence that the eu proposal bringing more transparency to the pricing and reimbursement of medicines has concrete added value and we need fair, transparent and evidence-based decisions for our healthcare systems in europe. i hope that all the institutions will be willing to engage in this direction and that citizens and patients can count on the european parliament to maintain these principles in our future decisions. i would like to thank the commissioner for his very ambitious proposal. if we had a more tolerant and engaged council i would have been even more ambitious than you.
madam president, when we talk about the recovery of european industry, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in my country, bulgaria, industry was destroyed even before the moment of crisis arrived. three successive governments have criminally privatized bulgarian industry and completely erased it from the european industrial map. the first government was right-wing, the second was centrist, the third was left-centerist. the entire political spectrum in bulgaria was systematically destroying bulgarian industry. the european union has not only been uncritical, but has encouraged this process. and today, when bulgaria is a member of the european union, the other industries that survived this cruel campaign against them, such as the sugar industry, as mrs yannakoudakis said, are now in danger of being destroyed by the rules and regulations of the european union. it is no coincidence that for the first time more than half of bulgarian citizens no longer support bulgaria's membership in the eu.
madam president, there has been a completely unacceptable and unfounded campaign against bulgarian and romanian citizens in the uk recently. the occasion is the forthcoming liberalization of the labour market. and today, students from bulgaria and romania have a harder time getting student work and internship permits in the uk than students from all other european member states and non-european countries. these are not people looking for benefits, they're looking for equality. they number around 4,600 and contribute over €30 million a year to the uk economy in the form of university fees and living costs. there is no reason for this discrimination, which is contrary to all european principles and norms, to continue. bulgarian citizens do not go to the uk to benefit from the welfare system. the facts indicate that they go to work. according to the european commission, only one out of every 600 unemployed in the old member states is bulgarian. where's the threat? when the visas were cancelled, we heard that the bulgarian citizens were going to flood the island. that never happened. according to the latest figures, there are only 35,000 bulgarians in the uk, which is 0.05% of the population, or one person for every 2,000 people. and these are people who work or study. you should be thinking about keeping them, not protecting yourself from them.
madam president, for several months now, an aggressive campaign has been waged by some member states of the european union against my country, bulgaria. the reason is the forthcoming opening of the labour markets for bulgarian and romanian workers from january next year under the european treaties. in britain, even the government is no stranger to the idea of a negative campaign aimed at stopping the free movement of citizens from both sides. unfortunately, a member of the european parliament has also joined in with a series of arrogant insinuations and false facts that discredit the country. the right of us bulgarian citizens to live and work anywhere in the european union is just as valid as british citizens in bulgaria. bulgarian students pay their tuition fees just like all other students, and therefore should have equal rights to work and work experience. and these rights cannot be the campaign slogan of any political force, nor can they patch up the tarnished image of any political leader. we demand a firm position from the european commission and guarantees that the member states will respect the treaties. otherwise, the referendums 'for' or 'against' the european union are decided in advance.
madam president, i rise to speak on the negative campaign against the bulgarian and romanian citizens initiated in the british public sphere by our colleague, mr farage, which certainly brings him short-term political dividends, but which instills negative stereotypes and hatred among european citizens, which is an unacceptable luxury that none of us as meps should afford. i find the offensive qualification unacceptable, including that the bulgarian economy is controlled by the mafia and that bulgarians will flood the uk labour market. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to two main points: first, if we want to have an integrated single market, then by violating one of its fundamental freedoms - the mobility of workers within the european union - we cannot generate growth and increase europe's competitiveness. second, let us respect countries like bulgaria and its hardworking citizens who, despite the crisis, have managed to provide a stable macroeconomic framework based on a pragmatic fiscal policy that guarantees better than the european union average in terms of debt (below 15%) and deficit (below 2% of gdp), as well as a flat tax of 10%.
commissioner, i congratulate you on the courageous reform you have proposed. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rodust, who has succeeded in presenting a really convincing regulation. the commission has also been active in the fight against illegal fishing, and has been involved in the development of the fisheries sector. the requirement to eliminate overfishing to restore fish stocks and the ban on discarding catches at sea are undeniable achievements. in addition to regulating relations with third countries and industrial fishing, the focus on coastal fishing, which feeds hundreds of thousands of families in the union countries, is of particular importance. together with the report on aquaculture by mr guido milana and the forthcoming adoption of the new fisheries fund, this regulation creates very good conditions for the development of the sector, the creation of new jobs, the participation of women and the development of coastal areas and freshwater basins. i cannot fail to note the attention paid to the creation of regional fisheries management organisations. i express the satisfaction of the fishermen of the black sea a new region for the european union, and i am convinced that the future black sea regional directorate will have a huge role to play in the conservation of marine resources and the development of fisheries.
mr president, i voted for this report. this report and this debate on smes are now traditional. i don't know if you've noticed, but for almost a year now there has not been a strasbourg session that has not been followed by a debate on small and mediumsized enterprises. and here i want to agree with the colleague who spoke before me in this regard that actual speaking and what actually happens are radically different. we are all in favour of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. we talk about it every month. but it's not working, and we're just talking about it, discussing it. billions and trillions of euros were poured into the banking sector to save the banks from the crisis they themselves caused. but now that money is gone for small and medium-sized enterprises. if this money had actually been allocated to smes, and not given to those who caused the crisis and led to the bankruptcy of many of these businesses in europe, the situation would be different now. let us think of a genuine european fund for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the text on facilitating access to finance for smes. these enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and its development. in the current crisis, smes are at the heart of the eu's economic growth and competitiveness. however, it is precisely because of the crisis that these enterprises are too vulnerable. it is important to work towards reducing red tape and making it easier for smes to access bank loans and investments. this will encourage them to come up with creative and innovative projects. support to smes also provides a better opportunity for market development. moreover, by creating new jobs, we are attacking the high youth unemployment in the union. i welcome the recommendations on the exchange of good practice between countries, partnership at european and national level, and tailor-made training for entrepreneurs so that they can know in advance how to access funding. we must do everything we can to ensure that european taxpayers' money reaches these companies and businessmen, because without strong and competitive smes, the eu will lose its economic perspective.
in writing. at the start of the third european semester, it is time to take stock of what has been achieved and to identify what remains to be done to complete the 'recovery-growth-employment' transition. in the first two semesters, we managed to create working mechanisms for budgetary coordination between member states, laying the foundations for the fiscal compact and the banking union. if the first two years were about doing things the right way, the european semester 2013 should go further: start doing the right things. employment stimulation should under no circumstances become an end in itself. labour market interventions should be driven by real needs in the economy, not the other way around. the eu-wide drive for strong financial discipline is in search of long-term positive outcomes, not populism and short-term effects. in this context, it is preferable to increase employment through structural reforms and investment in priority sectors. the low-debt policy (as bulgaria is pursuing) is a manifestation of responsibility and commitment to the young generation it will not have to pay the price for other people's mistakes in years to come. this is particularly important in view of the trend towards a deteriorating demographic structure and an ageing population across europe.
mr president, i would largely agree with the previous speakers from the nordic countries that corporate social responsibility is a voluntary act. but keep in mind, colleagues, that if it has been a tradition for many years in your countries and the market itself requires the companies concerned to have such responsibility, in the southern and eastern countries, such as my country, bulgaria, this is not a fact. so i think corporate social responsibility, which has a very big role and can give a very big product in the form of extra insurance, extra food, making life easier for workers, is important. but it should not be imposed, as you said, and i agree with you, under any circumstances, but rather we should look for tax or other incentives to encourage firms to adopt these measures themselves. for the socialist colleagues on the other side of the room, remember that if the companies disappear, the social element disappears altogether.
mr president, i would very much expect the european council to take a decision this week on the mff because any further delay will jeopardise all the programmes that are supposed to start next year. any delay would mean that the european budget could not be disbursed from the beginning of next year and that the european regions would not receive funding for whatever programmes they are working on. parliament is ready to accept the european council position only as an opening negotiating position, because all the signals that we are hearing are negative. the november european council give us a very negative picture of the agreement which is about to be reached in the council. nevertheless there should be an agreement and there should be further negotiations with the european parliament. we are very clear, as we have been over the last year, about what parliament’s requirements are. they have been set out many times by the colleagues here. the european budget does what national budgets cannot do. this is very important to understand. public investments create jobs for young people and help the member states and their economies to exit from the crisis. the member states’ and the union’s international duties and competitiveness are areas of spending that national budgets in many countries are not covering at all. we really want to close the gap between payments and commitments. we are accumulating a huge amount of unpaid invoices. you cannot blame the member states for having extensive deficits if the european commission is not paying the bills for them. so it is not acceptable for us. we want proper own resources, not in order to make a bigger european budget, but to make it more independent and to alleviate the burden on the national budgets. we want a unified budget because we do not want to be ambiguous with the citizens and ask them to contribute to two or three budgets, depending on whether their country is in the eurozone or not. so we will accept only a negotiating position and are ready to start immediate negotiations on it.
mr president, firstly, i cannot leave without commenting on the statement by mr farage, who said that when the restrictions on bulgarians and romanians are lifted from 1 january 2014, as stated in the pre-accession treaties and ratified by the united kingdom, london will leave the european union. sowing fear of eastern europeans may pay political dividends to mr farage and is good political calculation in his hand-wringing game with mr cameron, but it is immoral and disgusting political behaviour. mr farage and other representatives of the united kingdom, have you consulted your position on your country's withdrawal from the european union with the city of london and with uk businesses? but now on to the multiannual financial framework. in order to give europe's regions a chance to develop, the level of funding for the european funds must be maintained at least at the level of the current programming period, as parliament has called for. over the past few years, bulgaria has been absorbing european funds more rapidly and effectively, and bulgarian businesses and citizens are feeling the benefits of european union membership. i call on businesses, financial institutions and governments in all member states, in cooperation with the european commission, to develop a pro-european communication strategy for each member state individually, with a focus on the different social groups, so that they can all recognise their interest in a strong european budget. then it will be no problem to insist that not only 1% of the european union's gdp represents the european budget, but that it is also formed largely from the eu's own resources. this budget is a targeted investment instrument that increases the potential and competitiveness of all european regions and thus contributes to the completion of the european single market and to growth.
madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for the positive vote and i would like to ask the commission to give its position on the adopted amendment.
a question asked by raising a blue card. first, mr. watson, no one, and especially not the minister of the interior, has pressured the bulgarian judicial authorities to bring any charges. but keep in mind that in an attack like this, which is unloaded and without intent, there is no intent to commit murder. and therefore there is no crime of attempted murder. that's the law in bulgaria. i don't know what the law is in england. are you telling me that because the attack was committed against a person of special social standing, the bulgarian authorities should ignore the bulgarian law, violate it, just to satisfy you. is that what you're telling me?
mr. chairman, actually, to your surprise, i'm going to say that bulgaria does have a problem with freedom. are you aware, mr. watson, that the person you're defending so strongly at this time has been convicted of terrorism in bulgaria? his party, the movement for rights and freedoms, has feudalised entire regions of bulgaria. and when elections come, their emissaries go and gather people from their homes and drive them like a herd to the polling stations to cast their votes. otherwise, they're cut off from all social benefits. the movement for rights and freedoms is the only party in bulgaria that has been convicted of falsifying election results. in 2009, over 20,000 votes for this party were recorded as fraudulent. ahmed dogan, the leader of this party, was acquitted by a bulgarian court for taking half a million euros in bribes. what do you say to such accusations of corruption, mr. watson? what about ahmed dogan, who in 2009 came out and said that bulgaria didn't need a parliament because with or without a parliament he distributed all the power in the country. this is the person you're defending. shame on you for defending him, because that's not freedom and democracy. you defend the exact opposite in bulgaria. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. watson, what we believe is that the movement for rights and freedoms, called the national movement for rights and freedoms of the turks in the republic of bulgaria, was a terrorist organization that planted bombs that killed people in bulgaria 30 years ago. that's what this organization is. the last bombing she carried out was a bomb planted in a mother-child carriage. that's what i can't accept. a man who was in prison for terrorism, to be defended here in this hall of democracy.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, i want to ask mr van baalen and also answer mr watson and mrs gomes, because everyone is talking about the lack of security. and the responsibility for securing this party event is the dps itself. they had a contract with a security firm for security. of course, mr. dugan's personal security took responsibility for not being fast enough. but the responsibility for guarding the party event rests with the dps itself. if it was the other way around, if it was full of police, they would say, "why are there so many police? why are they watching or listening to what the party meeting of the party is doing? so let's be honest and not say things that have nothing to do with reality.
mr. chairman, the formal reason the dhs requested today's debate was the attempted assassination of their leader, ahmed dogan. this attempt was condemned in a special declaration of the national assembly in sofia. the european commission and the european council consider that the disclosure of all aspects of the incident, including possible accomplices and instigators, is an internal matter for bulgaria. the dps even expressed satisfaction with the adopted declaration by the bulgarian parliament and with the fact that the investigation was taken over by the nsc and was under the direct supervision of the prosecutor general. it follows that the present debate is entirely devoid of purpose. but why are we here? we're here because it seems the bulgarian opposition has a huge desire to use this hall for their election campaign. the leader of the bsp and recently the leader of the pes, who lost to gerb 7 consecutive elections in bulgaria in the last 6 years, is very keen to show that he too can win something. the dps has gone along with the bsp to a final battle without scruples or restraint and does not hesitate to discredit their country. criticism is being used in relation to the electoral code, for which a meeting of political parties was to be held today at 1 p.m. in the bulgarian national assembly. that didn't happen because it was boycotted by the dps and the bsp, of course, so they could do their show here today without warning. the manipulation of the lack of media freedom and censorship in bulgaria is done by representatives of the opposition who are in the media in bulgaria from morning to night - on the screen, on the internet, talking about "total censorship" and developing their theses against the government and personally against the prime minister. what's new here is that they're complaining about not having the opportunity to complain, which is absolutely unworthy, ugly and unfair. understanding that they had no chance of winning the elections in bulgaria and becoming the first force, mr. stanishev took up the old patriotic front idea and piped left and right that democracy in bulgaria was in danger and the sound and most democratic forces, namely the dps and the bsp, should take power again. the motto of all is "all against gerb!" very nice, but the year is not 1944, it's 2013 and people remember who is who in bulgarian politics. there has been a lot of arrogance and aggressive behavior from the bulgarian opposition parties lately, who are trying to smear the government and the prime minister personally in every way. i'm specifically referring to the d.a. you say that you should not sow hatred, but you do the exact opposite you isolate and frighten the bulgarian ethnic turks so that they are your eternal electorate. this is not integration, ethnic tolerance and democracy. and finally, i can't help but make the connection between the recent attempts to destabilize the country and the government's willingness to break once and for all with the old communist state security and its ties to the current services. they worked under the auspices of the bsp and the bkp, and the former president was also an agent of the communist state security, without law until now. despite the backroom resistance, despite the compromises, change is happening and bulgaria is becoming a truly democratic and european country. i would urge my colleagues in the opposition not to think only about the elections, but to live between the elections, and to ensure a dignified and high standard of living and a secure future and present for our citizens.
mr. chairman, the one who's making the campaign speeches, he just sat down. but we've heard more valuable things in this room today. we heard a stirring speech by the president of tunisia, in which the words "freedom, rule of law and democracy" were repeatedly used. now we're back to them again, but without the applause from before lunch. because it is a gross violation of these concepts in an eu member state. and since you, madam commissioner, touched on the subject of elections, i will tell you that pressure, chaos, vote buying by the ruling party - this is the characteristic of the last elections in bulgaria in 2011. a few months before the parliamentary vote now, 60% of bulgarian citizens do not believe they will vote freely. the evidence is the attempted manipulation of the country's first free referendum. in bulgaria, there is no debate about the different programs of the parties, left and right, center, but how to prevent the falsification of elections and the falsification of results. 32 osce recommendations have been left without a result. instead of negotiating with all opposition parties, the government froze the new electoral code. the pressure on the institutions is unprecedented and is blocking their work. instead of judicial reform, crisis; instead of fighting crime, a shooting outside the court of justice; instead of law and order, an attempt to assassinate an opposition leader. i'm closing, mr. chairman, because i'm calling for a full monitoring by the commission. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, the occasion that brought us to today's debate is the assassination attempt on the leader of the movement for rights and freedoms dr. ahmed dogan. you already know that this unprecedented act of aggression happened at our eighth national conference. we appreciate the fair condemnation of the assassination attempt by the president of the republic, by the national assembly and the position of the attorney general reactions provoked by the activity of the dps. i'm here today because of the attempts of the authorities to ignore the event and to form a certain public opinion; because of the legal qualifications that precede the clarification of the circumstances; because of the dissemination of false information related to the act of assassination. there's a term for all this, and it's "political meddling". we believe that the assassination attempt on mr. dogon was a political assassination attempt on an opposition leader on the eve of a parliamentary election. the european union is founded on the rule of law. attempted murder is still a crime here. therefore, from the highest tribunal in europe, i call on the european commission to monitor the progress of the assassination case as part of the high-profile cases. i hope that there will be an objective investigation and that there will be real access to justice. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. i can use the blue card for both of the previous statements. mrs hüsmenova, you said that you were satisfied that the bulgarian national assembly, the bulgarian parliament and, of course, the governing gerb party supported the declaration of the national assembly. it's not enough for you and the attorney general to say that this is under his direct supervision. you also want something that other member states have not asked for in such acts, for example, that the case be specifically monitored by the european commission. here i see a continuity of your policy along with your sister party bsp. just as the ep voted against the post-monitoring report on bulgaria, you now want additional reports and additional monitoring of bulgaria. this is very strange. mrs. yotova, the chairman has interrupted the speaker.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, it is good to respect the time of the speeches, as we do. the movement for rights and freedoms has stated unequivocally that we are seeking the support of the european commission in the person of justice and home affairs commissioner cecilia malmström, to follow closely the case against the perpetrator of the assassination attempt on mr. ahmed dogan and to include it in the framework of the mechanism for cooperation and evaluation among cases of high public importance, because we believe that the european commission is the one who can apply the legislation and assess whether the authorities in bulgaria are doing their job according to european rules.
mr. chairman, unfortunately, under the pretext that our colleagues from the socialists and liberals are waging an anti-government campaign, it seems that they are increasingly waging an anti-bulgarian campaign. this is evident in the statements made by some of our colleagues from other countries. this campaign, however, damages the image of our country and reflects negatively on the individual level of the traveler, student, working, resident bulgarian abroad to the positioning of our country on the european stage. everything that has been said so far will be said by the next socialist and liberal colleagues. this is all part of their compromising election campaign. however, the mobilization of the electorate with anti-campaigns only shows one thing: the lack of arguments and vision for an adequate, alternative, not populist policy for the development of our country. often the criticisms that are made of the current rulers are actually unfounded fears of the former coalition of liberals and socialists that the same actions and methods will be applied to them as when they ruled. for example, in 2009, for the elections for the current parliament, the amendments to the electoral code were made in the dark, at the last moment, and no opposition representative was allowed to lead any electoral commission. the chairmen, vice-chairmen and secretaries were all from the then ruling triple alliance. now everything is done in full transparency, with the active participation of the non-governmental sector, the media and the permanent questioning of the opposition. and it is not the government that is freezing the electoral code, but the opposition, which even today has not appeared at the consultations to defend its proposals, despite the readiness of the rulers to change the code and guarantee the constitutional right to vote of every bulgarian citizen both in the country and abroad. in connection with the speculation about the past of our prime minister, which has also been circulating in recent days, i want to note that again everything is happening transparently and it is declassified. what has caused great controversy is now available to anyone who wishes to learn about it. this is actually part of another opposition election debate. having declared an uncompromising fight against organised crime, corruption and the shadow economy, our opponents can only do what they do best - use compromising tactics to undermine confidence in the rule of law. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs. panayotova, the strange thing is that today only you, your colleagues and your friends from the epp are talking about elections. let's talk about something more serious, let's talk about standards. you just came from the bulgarian parliament and became a member of the european parliament. can you tell me how you assess the fact that for two months your prime minister has not appeared in parliament for parliamentary control? and even after this assassination attempt we're talking about today and the shooting outside the courthouse, he had to appear again on friday for parliamentary control, took a leave of absence and at the same time as prime minister he was showing up on all the media.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. we are talking about elections, mr kirillov, because you are actually replacing the election campaign in this room and all the epp colleagues who spoke earlier actually stressed that this is not the place for this and they are absolutely right. as for the prime minister, i think the prime minister governs and makes the decisions that determine the agenda of the country, in full transparency. it's not the prime minister's job to explain what happened at the civil rights congress. the relevant institutions have assumed their responsibility and let's not even here, through a similar debate, put pressure on the prosecution and the judicial system, which you all emphasize that you want to reform, and at the same time, when it doesn't work out, you criticize it.
mr. chairman, it's easy today to talk about one incident involving one politician in bulgaria. but that is not the whole point of these discussions. our country has actually experienced the worst attack in its recent history very recently. near a bulgarian village, foreign commandos conducted a mysterious operation, declared an extreme sporting event. the party leader who was the target of an assassination attempt, we've already talked about. and recently, an automatic shooting was discovered at a prominent defendant using the sofia courthouse as a backdrop. i mean, three years ago, the government said it would strike the oligarchy, bring order and justice to the bulgarians. these goals were not achieved. the oligarchy enjoys very good health and complete anonymity. the real builders of the underworld are in great shape. noisy police actions are more like letting the public know who's being protected when they're not being hunted. meanwhile, the government is crushing a few businesses for its own benefit and that of its guerrillas. from morning till night, it tends to its own image through controlled media, leaving the security of the citizens to themselves. we see a disintegration of the security sector, with security tools being used against political opponents and to restructure the economic environment. that's why all the events i've listed were possible. and they weren't planned and carried out by the opposition because there were elections coming up. of course, this statistic is much harder and much longer. the conclusion is one: today the bulgarian citizen is in dangerous dependence on an indifferent and arrogant state, whose prime minister is experienced as its universal owner. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. ilchev, you are talking about some statistics. i didn't hear you pointing out any statistics or making any comparisons. make some comparisons for the kidnappings, the murders, the robberies, the highway robberies. what are your statistics on the fact that right now in bulgaria the bulgarian government is not doing anything against organized crime? let us leave the assessment of this question to independent international organisations, and not to an electoral debate, even in the european parliament. it's not dignified.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. - mr. kovachev, we can't read the statistics reports. i have focused on the most drastic and mind-boggling events that are turning bulgaria today into a confused, oppressed, helpless society that has lost the fragile perspective it had a few years ago. how can i read you the statistics of the crime that floods the defenseless bulgarian villages, small towns, the mass suicides of former military personnel? the most cold-bloodedly trained people in our country commit family suicides, which has no analogues except during the anti-ottoman uprisings. this environment is a function of bad management. what statistics should i read to you, bulgarian to bulgarian in this room?
mr. chairman, the subject of today's debate is not the assassination attempt on ahmed dogan. that was the occasion. the subject of the debate is the rule of law and freedom. as a former foreign minister and a bulgarian mep, i feel insulted that after 23 years of democracy in my country, bulgaria is the subject of such a discussion. for me, at the heart of it all is the ruling party's attempt to substitute the truth about the democratic transition, to criminalize it and to challenge its achievements, among them the protection of human rights, freedom of the media and the rule of law. so it turns out that the european union's categorical support for the right-wing reformist government of 1997-2001 was support for criminal reforms, that the eu's decision to lift visas for bulgarian citizens, after covering criteria, note, in the field of justice and home affairs was a wrong decision, that the eu's support for bulgaria's membership was actually support for a criminal state. after such a grave accusation, it is logical to ask, where were the people making it, at the time of this same transition? which side of the barricade? and what is their policy today that is causing this debate? how would you react, for example, you, mr. weber, if someone in germany rehabilitates communism and speaks of its achievements? or you, madame mathieu, can you imagine control of the media in france? does the minister of the interior have a legal system in europe? despite all the assurances that we have met the technical criteria for schengen, despite the verbal support of the eu, you know that bulgaria is still outside schengen. and let's face it, it's not just the populists who are to blame. this debate today is humiliating bulgaria. but let it be a signal to europe that democracy has no party colour and must be defended by all.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, mrs fajon, i know you as a true fighter for civil rights and that is why i want to ask you a question. did you know that the attacker of ahmed dogan was lynched immediately afterwards by the delegates of the conference? mr watson and mr van baalen were there and saw it, i'm sorry i couldn't ask them; it was beaten to a pulp by the delegates to this conference, but now the movement for rights and freedoms does not share the authorities who carried out the massacre, so that they too can be held accountable. how about this?
mr. chairman, so far in the debate we have heard accusations, criticisms and disparaging alleged realities thrown with surprising ease. in the fight against crime, mr. ilchev, let's really let the numbers, the facts and the results speak for themselves. the figures show the following for 2012: one of the lowest recorded homicides, lowest level of assaults on vehicles, lowest level of robberies, lowest number of explosions. the number of murders reported for the period 1993-2008 is 180. for comparison, during the gerb administration, only in 2010: facts: there are no longer iconic figures like the late doctor, samokovec and georgi iliev, carrying out criminal activity under the umbrella of political parties. in the period 2009-2012, the criminal activity of more than 660 organised crime groups was partially or completely suppressed; over 3375 pre-trial proceedings were initiated. results: detained the 'naaglite' group in december 2010; no more kidnappings for ransom in the country. let's remember: 18 kidnappings in the period 2008-2009. since the arrest of the "crocodile" crime group in 2010, there has been no highway robbery in the country. since the operation against the killers in 2010/2011, there is no record of any contract killings carried out by the group. the 'cocaine kings', 'cartel' and 'operations' targeted at the fight against drug trafficking have been highly appreciated by our international partners and europol. we still have work to do, fellas. let's not count the bodies and attack each other, but have a dialogue. let's work for our country and let the people judge what we've done.
a question asked by raising a blue card. ms. gomes has been given the role by our bulgarian colleagues to speak with rumors against the prime minister and the bulgarian government. what sources do you rely on to say that there is some criminal connection between the prime minister and unregulated sources of funding? i can tell you the exact opposite these unregulated sources of funding were stopped to the bsp and to the dps by the current government. you may also know about the sapard scandal, when two of the bsp's donors were caught by olaf for misusing european funds and who have not yet been convicted in bulgaria. in germany, their accomplices have already been convicted by the german courts and served their sentences. so let's talk about facts, not someone heard or didn't hear. if you have any hard evidence, then speak up.
madam chairman, today's debate is not about any threat to freedom and democracy in bulgaria, much less about the criminal act against the leader of the socialist party. on the contrary, it is an opportunity to use the platform of the european parliament to foment mistrust and confusion for purely electoral purposes. we are witnessing a ruthless reaction to the increasing evidence of the drastic violations and disregard for the law during the opposition government, which caused millions of damages to the bulgarian state. declassified documents in the bulgarian parliament even show how during the time of the bsp prime minister sergey stanishev, with the minister of energy rumen ovcharov, secretly, without any public procurement procedures, their close associate negotiated a nuclear fuel deal with russia. bypassing the european requirements that the country must meet upon joining the european union. it is hardly freedom, democracy and european values that we can defend at all. the bulgarian citizen, however, is not so easily fooled. he showed this in the referendum on the construction of a new nuclear power plant by not voting and thus foiling the plans of the socialist party headquarters. it is because of this wisdom of the bulgarian citizens that today's disgrace of the country is extremely dishonest and offensive to the dignity of the bulgarians. it's a shame that the initiators of today's debate are ignoring this. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. it's not the ruling party's representatives who are now initiating this debate here. it was initiated by people from the opposition who very clearly want to use this platform for electoral purposes and they are doing so. and the campaign that is being waged against the ruling party and the prime minister of the country is clear and focused. i do not approve of the use of the european tribune to "mask" the state that is not beneficial to the country, is not honest and is offensive to the bulgarian citizens. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. i just want to ask, if everything in bulgaria with the rule of law and freedoms is really going smoothly, why is bulgaria still under the surveillance of the council of europe? why, despite the much-hyped advances in justice and home affairs, are we still under surveillance? why are we not yet members of the schengen area? why does hate speech provoke such ugly acts of terrorism, such assassinations, that the rulers try to cover up and justify as some reckless act of some crazy guy? why do such things happen in a democratic bulgaria?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. the authorities are not trying to cover up this drastic criminal act. this act was condemned by the national assembly, it was condemned by the political party that runs our country. your question about why we have surveillance is too rhetorical. the monitoring was imposed when your party was involved in the running of the country. and there's probably enough reason to have surveillance, because back then, you heard from colleagues, both crime and corruption had a place in the country.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, mr de mera, i am sorry to have to address only you, but today we are not talking about the prime minister of bulgaria, or even about this act of assassination of the leader of a political party. this is a very serious matter. do you know that in bulgaria since october the constitutional court is not functioning because the parliament cannot elect its representative, and the constitutional court has to control the work of the bulgarian parliament, which is why it becomes a political hostage of this very parliament, which it should control? that's what we call a violation of the rule of law, and that's what we're talking about. you know that?
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr de mera, since you know so well who and which institution has said what good things about the prime minister of bulgaria and the government, would you answer my question: do you know why all the opposition parties in bulgaria, including parties that are members of the european people's party, including the parties of the center and the left, have refused to debate the new electoral code in the bulgarian parliament? what do you think brought together people with different ideologies, with different political views, from different spectrums of the political spectrum?
no, madam chairman, not for a blue card. i just want to draw attention to the way the debate was conducted, because at the beginning you gave the opportunity to a blue card to the speakers before. the last two, mr díaz de mera and mr uruchev, were given two. let's just play by the rules.
madam president, whatever we are talking about today, unfortunately it is only about one thing, and that is the upcoming elections in bulgaria and what colleagues here today tried to do is to make statements that will be reflected tomorrow in the bulgarian press and to show their activity, despite the fact that they claim how big an umbrella there is over the media and they cannot speak. but it is extremely shameful and disgraceful behavior for us to present our country in such a negative aspect here, before the european parliament, apparently very quickly forgetting when, how and where organized crime was created in bulgaria, who its real founders are and during whose administration the european funds were stopped. i can only tell you that under the operational program "transport" over ten projects were stopped during the triple coalition government. the aid for isa was stopped and the construction of the luling highway was frozen. today the lulin highway is moving, we can all go on it to save time entering sofia. we have not been deprived of any of the funds and as you can see the country is developing absolutely systematically and as is necessary for a european country. today, however, the debate provoked by the opposition has unfortunately led to nothing concrete and nothing we can resolve so that bulgaria really gets a better development. so i call on my colleagues from the opposition to let us give the right to the people in bulgaria to give their vote and to show once again what they want, and we just to be constructive in our work.
madam speaker, as a member of parliament elected in bulgaria, i regret attending this debate and hope it will be the last for our country. bulgaria is home to just over 7 million european citizens who, like everyone else, are struggling with the crisis, unemployment, the declining level of european services, the lack of effective institutions, and the confrontational environment that is being created by the country's rulers. but the debate is useful for two reasons. firstly, because the european parliament is an institution that is particularly sensitive to democracy and to any attempt to crush it, to trample on the rule of law, to influence the other institutions by the executive. the fact is that the bulgarian media is not only the last in europe, but is already targeting the last in the world, and this has only been happening for a few years. the fact that the last elections were assessed, including by international observers, as the worst organized so far, for 25 years in bulgaria, says that there is a problem with the democratic institutions in the country. and the second reason this debate is useful is because of the bulgarian citizens. they must be assured that the european parliament is watching what is happening in bulgaria. and that's very important for those who want to change that environment.
commissioner, ten ngos, including the union of judges, the union of lawyers, the bulgarian helsinki committee and others, have sent a report to the european commission as a form of internal monitoring. the main conclusion is that the procedures for the selection of the supreme judicial council, constitutional judges and the prosecutor general were opaque, manipulated and announced in advance. it is noted that this type of appointment creates political commitment, compromises the independence of the judiciary and blocks its ability to tackle organised crime and corruption. according to the report, the lack of independent media also holds back judicial reform. lack of transparency in ownership, funding and corporate control of the media limits journalistic independence. the state agencies fund certain media organisations in an opaque way, mainly with european funds. i would like to ask what effective steps will be taken by the european commission and when will they be taken if the bulgarian government continues to disregard the rule of law and guarantee media freedom?
i do accept it, but i think we are going a little too far with the blue cards. i would happily answer mr kovatchev on whatever he wants to ask, but i think the procedure is that he has to ask mrs parvanova. mr kovatchev has already had at least 15 minutes’ speaking time in plenary. this really violates the rules of procedure and the principle of equality here, so i ask you to stop the blue cards. i refuse to answer his questions.
a question asked by raising a blue card. i think the statements from the opposition parties in bulgaria were much more, mr. kalfin. mrs. parvanova, you also touched on the subject of the media and you say that there is some censorship or manipulation in them. i just want to ask you if you know how the bulgarian meps are being treated by the opposition and the government? i have taken the trouble to do a reference for the last year from april to july and it turns out that the four members of the bsp have much more reflections than the five members of the parliament from gerb. so let's not shed crocodile tears when we talk about media coverage and media censorship, because that's not true. just look at the bulgarian media and you'll see that there is absolutely no censorship.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i'm very glad, mr. kovachev, that you asked me this question, because: firstly, i have quoted ten very serious ngos and their conclusions in their report, but specifically on your question, i want to tell you that when i do something in this parliament, even if i am a rapporteur on a particular legislative dossier and you speak, only your statement is reported in the bulgarian media, and when you do not speak, it is reported as if it only happened in the european parliament. this is the censorship of my actions in this parliament and my work as a bulgarian mep.
madam president, i too regret that this debate was presented by my colleagues in the epp as a pre-election debate. it's a debate of concern on the part of major political forces such as the liberals, greens, socialists and democrats about what is happening in bulgaria after 23 years of democratic transition. that it is possible in a supposedly democratic country to have such a shameful assassination attempt against the most famous leader of this democratic transition, mr. ahmed dogan, and that the rulers are trying to downplay the case and rudely direct the investigation in a direction that is convenient for them. for so long the government has remained deaf and mute to the demands of all opposition parties for fair elections. i think that is why the european commission should be very attentive to the trial that is going to be held against the perpetrator of this attack and very carefully assess in the next report whether or not the authorities have made progress in this area.
in writing. colleagues, bulgaria is an example of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. for the past 23 years, there has been a power shift from a handful of people who have left the former communist party. the four pillars of democracy are violated: freedom of speech is lacking, there can be no business outside the ruling party gerb, the judiciary is corrupt, and there is no freedom of vote. the entire state apparatus, even at this moment, is being used for the government's personal pr and thus to settle scores with the prime minister's economic and political opponents. the country is run by monopolies, corrupt deals are made with european money, high magistrates with an openly criminal resume are appointed, the media is concentrated in the hands of two companies that are directly subordinate to the government. free journalism is under threat. journalists get fired by major media outlets just for telling or writing the truth. the current show has "blacklists" of guests inconvenient to the management. this is bulgaria today! this is an eu country! you decide if it's right and if the people there are free.
in writing. i take the floor as a representative of the traditional bulgarian right, whose anti-communism and euro-atlantic orientation have put bulgaria back on the map of europe. unfortunately, today the new right in the form of the gerb party has abandoned the values of the epp and is trampling on the principles of democracy. and it can't be otherwise when we see that prime minister borisov himself constantly "flirt" with communist nostalgia and openly rehabilitates the communist dictator zhivkov; that he declares the radical reforms that laid the foundations of the market economy in bulgaria as crimes; that he constantly discredits the achievements of the right during the transition to democracy, thanks to which my country received an invitation to join the eu; that the parliamentary majority of the gerb refuses to accept the recommendations of the osce and tries to limit the transparency of elections and the representation of the opposition through the new electoral code. and all this is done in front of the eyes of the bulgarian citizens by a party that enjoys the unconditional support of the epp! there are elections this year for a national parliament, and next for a european parliament. if we do not stop compromising our values and the principles of democracy in the name of petty political games, the bulgarian right will deviate from its european path, and the european right will lose the respect of the bulgarians.
in writing. - i express my full support for the report by veronica lope fontagné. the report is critical but proposes concrete solutions to the european commission and the european council. all the proposals made lead to a smarter management of the european semester, through maximum synchronisation between the actors at european and national level. this is the way to avoid the bad examples of inconsistency, such as the failure to report on progress towards the 2020 targets in the commission's 2013 annual growth survey, or the lack of a national employment plan in the national reform plans of individual member states. the lack of synchronisation between reform ambitions, objectives and plans leads to imbalances in labour markets across europe. i'm giving you my country, where the government boasts of its fiscal stability policy without investing enough in employment. we cannot get out of the crisis if we reduce the opportunity for young people to realize themselves on the labour market, and bulgaria has the highest rate of young people (between 15 and 24 years old) without work, education or vocational qualifications in the eu - a total of 23%! in the interests of the need for synchronisation in the eu, i think it is imperative that the commission and the council take account of the european parliament's proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate our three rapporteurs, mrs elisabeth morin-chartier, mrs silvia costa and mrs liotard, on their work today. the three of us have been working very hard and very effectively to produce reports which propose concrete measures for the effective implementation of equality between men and women, both within and outside the union. i would like to thank mrs morin-chartier in particular for her report on the impact of the economic crisis on women's rights and gender equality in the union. this year, in the european parliament, we have dedicated international women's day to this theme. we wanted to show the positive role of women, their contribution in times of crisis. we will never say it enough, we must work together to support and promote education, training, entrepreneurship among women. we must make sure that we give them the tools they need to build up their confidence. in addition, we have a comprehensive legislative arsenal, both at union and member state level. applying the legislation is also a step forward. three areas are priorities in our european action: combating the gender pay gap, promoting reconciliation between family and professional life, and eliminating violence against women. as such, i would like to congratulate you once again, madam vice-president, on the excellent round table on the elimination of female genital mutilation and on your commitment to the eradication of this scourge. the european union must continue its efforts inside and outside our borders, because the answers we give are for the women of the union, but also for those living outside our continent and, ultimately, for all the women of the world.
mr president, i would like to thank supporters for the incredible work they have done. i would also like to remind the house that in 1995 the beijing declaration and platform for action set targets for removing all obstacles to women’s active participation in all spheres of public and private life – and by the way, the eu reviews progress with reference to that platform. this own-initiative report considers how gender stereotypes in the eu are hindering efforts to achieve gender equality in the areas of education, media and advertising, the economy and decision-making, as well as looking at the causes of gender stereotyping and possible ways of eliminating it. the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on societal beliefs and attitudes restricts the opportunities for women in the social, economic and political sphere. the gender pay gap is still 16%, while under-representation of women in political and business decision-making, occupational segregation and the growing problem of women’s poverty illustrate the severity of the problem in our society and demand more effort from us. we should not be afraid of talking about highly sensitive issues – such as sexist insults, degrading images of women and pornography – and their link to violence against women and the role of women in society.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy roadmap to 2050 is an important benchmark for the union's energy policy, the long-term energy objectives and strategy on which cooperation between member states will be built in the coming decades. i thank the rapporteur for covering all energy aspects in a pragmatic and objective way, avoiding the dogmatic bias of absolutely favouring renewable energy as the only solution to our energy future. i therefore support the commission's request to extend the forecasting models to include scenarios with long-term use of coal and nuclear power plants. hundreds of billions of euros flow out every year for the supply of energy. i therefore welcome the increased priority in energy policy of the discovery and exploitation of local energy sources as the most significant factor in reducing our energy dependence. europe will inevitably rely on renewable energy as a future major energy source, but much greater coordination between countries is needed to achieve more efficient investment, more rational use of regional potential and specificities for renewable energy for the benefit of europe as a whole. the achievement of energy objectives requires a fully interconnected energy infrastructure allowing for the integration of smart grids and decentralised energy sources. i share the need for joint investment to accelerate energy integration and exchange good practices in making networks smarter.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the fact that stress tests have been carried out on nuclear power stations using a single methodology and criteria. this is an important step towards a common understanding of the risks and safety of nuclear energy. let us not view the observations made during the evaluations as mere shortcomings. they're proof that the stress tests were serious and responsible. i support the texts in the resolution calling for the implementation of the programmes for the removal of the remarks and all reasonable proposals for achieving greater safety. i do not support those who want to artificially increase the cost and price of nuclear energy. today, the european union needs at least to keep energy prices down if we are to be competitive on the world market.
i would like to welcome from the european parliament's rostrum the bulgarian citizens who in recent weeks, through mass rallies and marches, have opposed the pernicious policies of the right-wing government in bulgaria and led to its resignation. for three and a half years, a destructive economic and financial governance model has been followed, which has led to a doubling of unemployment, a decline in real incomes, the crushing of small and medium-sized businesses in the interests of the monopolies. it was a civil revolution against the lack of prospects for the young, against the misery to which the elderly are condemned, against the authoritarian rule of the gerb party, blind and deaf to the suffering and the daily struggle for survival of the people. the bulgarian spring also got its tragic symbol. in protest, plamen goranov, a man my age, set himself on fire. his death was the strongest moral condemnation, both to the current administration and to all those who during the years of transition put personal and private interests above the interests of the citizens, who supported the plundering of the state and facilitated the draining of national resources to shady business circles. bulgaria is different now. i believe that after the snap parliamentary elections, the institutions of the state will put the people first, with the clear awareness that power comes from the people and is exercised in the name of the people.
in writing. − there is nothing accidental in the support that the european commission receives from the european parliament and the european council for the regulation of european venture capital funds (erdf) and european social entrepreneurship funds (esif). the exit from the economic crisis requires short-term and long-term measures that must be developed evenly, regardless of their different time frames. otherwise, it could lead to economic stagnation, social and political crisis. in bulgaria, we have seen this happen precisely because of the dogmatic adherence to a policy of strict fiscal discipline, but without the courage to change the unreformed public sectors. long-term measures in these areas are needed to help small and medium-sized enterprises - the backbone of european economies - with policies that favour entrepreneurship and investment. the risk of social and political crisis makes innovative social entrepreneurship even more important. the regulations take this into account and acknowledge the existence of problems arising from the lack of uniform and well-communicated governance and investment requirements in the erdf and the efsi. we call on member state governments to follow this model of crisis exit and to take advantage of the measures and opportunities already achieved at european level.
mr president, we are on the eve of a decisive step forward towards the goal we have set ourselves - fairer, more flexible, greener and geared towards small and medium-sized producers. the common agricultural policy. the european parliament's contribution is simplified mechanisms and concrete proposals. we also stated another objective - to protect the common european interest, but also to ensure that each member country feels a positive impact of the reform. that was our challenge. each wanted to protect its national interest, but each had to show understanding for the other's specificity. and all this in the context of a reduced budget, which, if not allocated properly, risks making the cap the subject of constant criticism. but above all, these criticisms should not come from those for whom the cap is - the active farmers and ranchers. there was no way to achieve equalization of subsidies between new and old member countries. but that is why i am calling on the commission and the council to look at the specifics of the countries and to support a distribution of resources which will ensure that production-related aid is not discriminatory but reflects our desire to preserve jobs. the commission's proposal is to make the cap more effective and to ensure that the farmers in bulgaria are not left behind. it is also to give the beekeeping industry a place it deserves. the flexibility between the poles is a very positive signal. with flexibility, we found a compromise. i wish the future negotiators would keep it so that farmers and farmers in every member country can finally really feel that we have worked, guided by their needs and interests.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of people is one of the engines of integration and development of the single market and of growth of the community's total gdp. recently, we have seen a growing number of negative campaigns in the member states, not only by extremist parties, against labour migration, with the aim of creating certain fears among the population. we have many examples of the positive impact of migration, both on labour markets and on skills shortages and on social security systems. as the rapporteur has pointed out, open and tolerant societies attract qualified professionals more easily, which is important to take into account in terms of positioning and aspiring to the eu as a potential place for investment and innovation. given that europe's working age population will decline by 14 million over the next 10 years, one of the key tools to overcome the demographic challenge is immigration. the report we are discussing today clearly states that 70% of eu citizens believe that immigrants are good for the european economy. in view of these facts, i would like to urge politicians who are tempted, especially in election campaigns, not to provoke a decrease in this support and negative perceptions, especially among european citizens.
blue-card question. – mr farage, i raised the blue card because you keep playing internal politics without basing yourself on figures. let me give you some figures. for every 2 000 british citizens, there is one bulgarian; for a town of 100 000 people, there are 50. you call that pressure? one out of every 600 unemployed people in the uk is one bulgarian. you call that pressure? bulgarian and romanian students are spending gbp 30 million pounds in taxes for their studies and living expenditure in britain annually. you call that pressure? i am afraid that your domestic politics have nothing to do with reality, and you will see that at the next elections. (applause)
mr president, if we were to vote today in parliament for or against the decision of the council of european heads of state, we would reject it. the resolution we are proposing gives us a chance to start negotiations and have a different outcome in the european parliament. earlier today, president barroso said that the european union needs a multiannual financial framework. i would add, not from any multiannual financial framework. we need a framework to make the budget in line with the political ambitions of the union. very often in this room we have to go back to the basics. one of them is: can the european union help to overcome the crisis? we've heard all kinds of opinions here (some of them very strange). the answer is clear: yes, if the european union stimulates investment in economies, if it saves national resources (as happens, for example, with development aid), if it creates added value (as happens with european infrastructures, with the erasmus programme, with young people). in all these cases, the european budget creates jobs and growth. and it creates them better than if those resources were spent at the national level, and they are not at the national level (the countries don't have them). what the heads of government agreed to was a budget that was at the level of the 1989 gross domestic product. we're trying to solve the problems of 2020 with a budget from 1989 ─ 0.94% of gdp payments. that is absolutely impossible. that's why we want to negotiate. that is why we do not adopt a budget without sufficient flexibility, without a mid-term review, with a deficit that is built into it, and with all the uncertainty that there is. so i hope we get broad support for the resolution in parliament.
in writing. – convinced that a democratic, stable and prosperous neighbourhood, together with a successful enlargement, is in the very interest of the eu, we are taking more and more ambitious political commitments for cooperation and assistance. however, we can only stand by these commitments if they are supported by the necessary financial resources. i regret to see that the european council has disregarded this logic in favour of destructive austerity measures and has agreed on a more than 16% cut to mff heading 4 compared to the commission proposal. we cannot afford such a discrepancy. it would create additional risks for the reform processes undertaken by our partners which we pledged to support, undermine our credibility, have a negative effect on public opinion in these countries, and overall limit our ability to take action beyond our borders. yet another concern is the current accumulation and rollover of outstanding payment claims in the eu budget, which calls into question the ability and willingness of member states to fulfil their financial commitments. together with the council, we will now have the challenging task to redistribute the funds between equally important policies and instruments within heading 4. i look forward to the new commission’s proposals on ipa and eni.
mr president, commissioner, as you have said, we must continue to draw the lessons from what has happened in mali, from our actions and our interventions. no transition is easy, but the one mali is currently experiencing faces many challenges. on the external front, there is what mali expects from the union. internally, mali is experiencing a security, political and military process that is fraught with many pitfalls. first, there is the matter of the european union. we must continue to support the training mission and put more emphasis on military reform. the union's support is essential for the implementation of the electoral calendar. the sending of an election observation mission is necessary, but above all, monitoring and technical and expert assistance are also needed. i would like to draw attention to the regional partners and ecowas. they must play a more active and important role. at the internal level, i think there are three key words: pacification, conciliation and construction. as regards pacification, peace is priceless, but to achieve it, guarantees must be provided to ensure the integrity of the territory and the protection of the civilian population, especially women and children. as regards conciliation, i welcome the decision to set up a commission for dialogue and reconciliation. however, i would like to draw attention to those with whom we are negotiating. dialogue, yes, but not with terrorists! finally, the construction. for the state to be strong, the people must have a sense of justice. the prosecution of all the abuses committed and the role of the international criminal court must be taken into account here. the construction is our common challenge. developing our partnership, acting more effectively and more quickly, is what mali expects from us.
mr president, this is not our first debate on ukraine and it will surely not be the last. why is ukraine so important to us? because we care about the country and its people, because it is the largest country in the eastern neighbourhood, and because it plays an important role in security in the region and in smooth energy supplies to the eu, etc. we have negotiated the most ambitious association agreement ever with a third country. we are very close to signing and implementing it, putting an end to the so-called post-soviet space and turning it into an eu-to-be space. the eu-ukraine summit last month was another encouraging event in this direction, and had to be used to make further progress. however, the closer we are, the more difficult it becomes to make those small steps which will put ukraine irreversibly on the way towards gradual proximation and integration with the eu. what is the problem? i have heard enough excuses, accusations, explanations and promises. the fact is that ukraine is becoming a hostage to endless factionalism and fighting, in which all sides are using every weapon they possess. is it really so difficult for the president and government to address the eu’s simple and clear requests, when such a big achievement is at stake? why, again and again, does the judiciary take actions that have a predictable negative impact in brussels? the judiciary must be independent, but it must also be responsible in relation to the fulfilment of national goals. in that regard, how come that an mp – a lawyer who is, incidentally, a defender of the imprisoned opposition leader – cannot foresee the outcome of his non-compliance with the law? i appeal to my ukrainian colleagues in the verkhovna rada: please, both majority and minority members, stop these suicidal fights, take a deep breath, look around and see what kind of future you are building – or rather failing to build – for your people. the elections are over. learn the lessons, fulfil the osce requirements so as to make the next elections better – and respect one another if you want ukraine to be respected too! i call on my colleagues in the european parliament. let us not import those political tensions or reproduce them here. let us export to kiev our ability to find constructive compromises. a final warning: the cox-kwasniewski mission has offered a last chance. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is a crucial milestone in relations between the eu and ukraine. both sides have agreed on the most advanced association agreement which the union has ever negotiated, as colleagues have pointed out. it will bring benefits for the citizens of both the eu and ukraine. the eu is committed to ukraine’s economic growth and modernisation and, of course, the purpose of ukraine’s association is comprehensive europeanisation and a move towards european standards in all areas. the agreement is a powerful tool for this transformation. ukraine is a country of great potential and it is clear that it needs to do more to meet the necessary standards and values and to address problems, including problems with selective justice. by the way, we should also show some humility and say that in a number of our countries we still face some of these problems. declarations of ukrainian aspirations towards integration with the european union are not enough, of course. however, the recent resolution of the verkhovna rada on eu integration is a positive sign and, also on a positive note, i understand that president yanukovych has today signed a special decree addressing some ukrainian commitments specified in the february summit conclusions. we have to do everything possible to more actively engage ukraine in this process and support parliament’s special envoys to ukraine, mr kwasniewski and pat cox. it is now time for us to send a clear signal of support to the country. ukraine can no longer afford to stay at the crossroads. there is no real alternative, in the long run, to what the eu can offer ukraine with an association agreement, and both sides should make this agreement possible this year. the key words are ‘active dialogue’ and ‘result-oriented engagement’. the ukrainian people deserve this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – in my opinion, as a party to the european convention on human rights, this is ukraine’s right. just as it is the right of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to deal with this issue.
the mechanism is no longer working, and as you can see, it is being used more for domestic policy purposes than for concrete results. and this mechanism and instrument does not work because the evaluation criteria are not clearly defined by the commission; because each time the commission sets new criteria, and its evaluations contradict the previous ones; because the evaluations in the reports are outdated before they are published; because there are double standards - you evaluate bulgaria and romania at a time when france is shaken by the bettencourt scandal, in which the president of germany resigns for corruption, not to mention the current situation in spain; because you have made these two countries a target for the eurosceptics with this mechanism, and today's statement by a colleague on the other side of the table is clear evidence; because the mechanism is a convenient crutch for all the eurosceptics who do not want schengen, nor because europe is just a repetition of an anthem that is no longer treating but is developing. i believe that mechanism has been exhausted. i hope that we will soon have a new european anti-corruption legislation that we will all work towards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation and verification mechanism between the european commission and bulgaria has evolved in recent years from a reform driver to a mechanism for cooperation rather than verification. by deciding not to monitor bulgaria for 18 months through interim reports and thus allowing concrete results to be achieved on the basis of the institutional and regulatory framework already established, the european commission took into account the political will for reform in bulgaria and the trust expressed in the bulgarian institutions. the borisov government has always taken a state-oriented approach to every commission report and in recent years many of its recommendations have been implemented - a difficult decision for the majority, which was often left alone in voting laws, such as the confiscation of illegally acquired property for the benefit of the state, the creation of a specialized court and prosecutor's office, the introduction of transparent procedures for the election of members of the supreme judicial council and the prosecutor general. the judicial system is also seen to have people who want to change it and create an environment of intolerance towards the negative manifestations in it. but the question today is, what do we do with the mechanism from here on out? because there are three main points. first, the possibility of imposing a safeguard clause no longer exists because the three-year period in which it could have been imposed has expired. for this reason, the mechanism largely loses its original purpose and becomes a not very effective instrument, both for the european commission itself and for the parties. secondly, the mechanism is increasingly being used for domestic policy debates, which is still the case today, or for the imposition of additional conditionality by certain member states on matters both of schengen and of the free movement of workers within the european union. third, as of 2013, the european commission has launched a new initiative for european anti-corruption reports. i believe, commissioner, that this would be one of the possible ways of continuing cooperation not only with bulgaria and romania but also with all the other countries. in conclusion, mr president, in view of the above and the irreversibility of the reforms carried out in bulgaria, i believe that the possibility of drawing up a strategy for the withdrawal of the mechanism should be discussed.
mr president, i rise to express my conviction that debates such as this one should serve as a record of achievements but also as a clear perspective for the future. the balance is clear: the cooperation and control mechanism has brought some positive results, but it has mostly run out. it has been a useful tool in supporting the efforts of the bulgarian and romanian authorities to carry out the necessary reforms in their judicial systems. the recommendations in bulgaria have always been taken into account. they were a good starting point for legislative texts, for implementing and developing relevant policies, for greater transparency. today, however, the situation is quite different. it is now important to have a clear position from the european commission on what follows after december 2013. we need a clear strategy to get out of the mechanism. we need a strategy that doesn't feed the feeling of second-rate countries. we all know that feeling is dangerous. two other mechanisms exist at european level, aimed at fighting corruption and reforming the judiciary. croatia is joining the european union without a mechanism. commissioner, do you not think it is contrary to the european principles of equality between member states to place some countries under surveillance by several mechanisms and others under none? our common path is a common mechanism. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, yes, indeed the mechanism and the good cooperation between the bulgarian authorities and the european commission have contributed to the reduction of the deficit in the areas monitored since 2007. but, excuse me, corruption, organized crime and problems with the judicial system are not a trademark of bulgaria and romania. therefore, in bulgaria, voices are heard more and more often and more loudly saying "remaining in this mechanism is discrimination for our country". moreover, some countries are binding, quite unjustifiably, as the commissioner has said, on the admission of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, the assessments of the report by the mechanism. such a mechanism and procedure should be in place for all member states. what we hear from commissioner malstrom is good in that regard. but a specific mechanism for only two of the 27 member states, soon to be 28, is absolutely unacceptable to us. so we want to hear from the commission what else it expects, what other indicators and criteria we need to cover in order for this mechanism to fail.
in writing. i supported this report because it is essential to provide the 11th edf with the necessary resources to meet our commitments in terms of our development aid policy. we need to redouble our efforts on the mdgs, including those related to poverty eradication, public health and gender equality. i would like to commend the work and efforts of all the acp states that have already achieved the mdgs by the 2015 deadline. we should emphasise the need to promote the exchange of good practice. secondly, we must take into account the political and security vulnerability of certain acp countries and, in partnership with them, develop policies of prevention, pacification and stabilisation which would help to reduce emergencies. third and last, we must continue to strengthen democratic ownership. we must continue to support the national parliaments and civil society of the acp states. it is the democratic control of these two actors that ensures the support of vulnerable populations, the promotion of human rights and the respect for equality between men and women.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more flexible, fairer, greener and younger and smaller farmers' common agricultural policy. given the differences between member states, it was important to find a compromise between our national interests and those of the european union. at the same time, this report allows member states greater flexibility to take decisions taking into account their national specificities. it allows payments to be made only to those who actually work the land and supports farmers in the main sectors in my country - livestock, beekeeping, tobacco, vegetables and fruit. the report also balances the greening of the cap and the needs of farmers, keeping the measures proposed by the commission to better protect the environment, but at the same time making them more acceptable and less burdensome for farmers. i voted for this report because i think it is a good starting point for negotiations and a good basis for achieving fairness both at european level - between member states - and at national level - between the different sectors of production.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more streamlined and more efficient common organisation of the markets. one of the main priorities of this report is to highlight the specificities of agriculture and the food supply chain. it allows the agricultural sector to deviate from the usual rules of competition. in this way we will protect our farmers, who will be able to exercise greater market power. i voted for this report because it gives producer organisations more freedom of action so as to strengthen the position of producers vis-à-vis other actors in the chain. a key moment for my country bulgaria was the preservation of the vine planting rights until 2030. the planting rights system is a tool for exercising control in the sector. the free regime would lead to the industrialisation of production and to market destabilisation. and uncontrolled planting would have devastated small-scale grape and wine producers. it was necessary to send a strong signal to the sector and a commitment to preserve the reputation of quality wines from the eu. that is why i voted for this report - because it protects european producers and european production and their rightful place on the world market.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a model of rural development in which member states develop strategies and programmes tailored to their specificities. the removal of the axes and the possibility for each country to define its own priorities and procedures is an important step towards respecting the diversity and specific needs of rural areas in the member states. the report presents numerous improvements to many of the measures. these include knowledge transfer and information activities, consultancy services, quality schemes, investments in physical assets, business and farm development, provision of basic services, village renewal and cooperation. supporting women, young farmers, small farms, mountain areas and short supply chains by extending the list of thematic sub-programmes is a key element in rural development. the improvements made by the report, among others, ensure that farmers and agricultural activities are the main beneficiaries of support. and this is an important moment to show that the efforts of those who remain in rural areas and are responsible for their development are noticed and appreciated. that is why i voted for this report - it is proof that the european union is capable of taking care of all its regions.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it aims to simplify the complex administrative system and to lighten the burden on farmers. the report is a good basis for building a common monitoring and evaluation framework to measure the effectiveness of the cap in the next period. it proposes to adjust the financing rules on the basis of experience to date, to streamline and improve cross compliance, and to strengthen the system of farm advisory boards. the main achievements of the report are the adoption of new control and sanction systems, an early warning system, the reduction of control and risk associated with the inspection procedure, less bureaucracy and a system for monitoring and evaluating the cap. the possibility of reducing the number of on-the-spot checks for member states with properly functioning control systems and a low error rate is an important point. this will reduce the administrative burden for both farmers and national administrations. i voted for this report because it proposes clearer, simpler and more transparent rules and is a prerequisite for a better functioning administration. and that is exactly what we need to achieve a more successful cap.
in writing. - mr mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report on the stress tests of nuclear power stations, because i find some of the recommendations to be unrealistic and unworkable. i thank all those who voted against and thus avoided the creation of a pan-european monitoring mechanism for the safety of nuclear power stations, but i cannot accept parliament's approval of the transition of nuclear safety from euratom to the treaty on the functioning of the european union as reasonable. to some extent this can be seen as an attempt to denounce clauses by euratom, but a very different procedure is needed for such a change to happen. i do not see how the commission could also comply with the text adopted, which requires it to support in an open and uncommitted way the identification of the best places to bury radioactive materials, when under current european legislation this is the sole responsibility of the member states. the requirement for nuclear regulators to carry out detailed cost estimates together with operators for the necessary upgrades of power plants is also not possible to meet. nuclear regulators are not concerned with the economics of power plants, but with their safety, whatever that may cost. these are some of the shortcomings that cast a shadow over this otherwise important and essentially good report.
in writing. − more than ever, the european union needs stability, jobs and economic growth. we have high unemployment, and on the other hand, a shortage of skilled labor. to overcome this, we need better education, skills development and professional development policies by member states, the identification of new target groups and better access to higher education for eu citizens. however, it is worrying that europe's working-age population will decline from 2012 and that it will shrink by 14 million people in the next ten years if there is no immigration. i support the report because i believe that the eu should be in the global race for the smartest people in order to attract and retain talent. but this has to happen in a well-controlled and gradual way if we want to avoid the negative effects of migration. it is important that eu social security is a key element in the union's external relations and in negotiations with third countries. immigration without a strategy creates difficulties and threatens the eu's competitiveness. in the face of global competition, the eu must maintain its position in attracting the best talent. quality, not quantity this should be the position of european migration policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt because it is high time that the international community responds effectively to the urgency of the pivotal moment that this state is going through. the eu's role must be strengthened to provide logistical and financial support that is commensurate with the needs of egypt's democratic transition. we must ensure that an election observation mission is sent to the next elections. let's take advantage of the decision of the administrative court to refer the electoral law to the supreme constitutional court. this gives us the opportunity to work towards a clear and transparent roadmap. the holding of free elections is only one aspect, albeit an essential one, of the construction of democracy. egyptian society must work to promote reconciliation between all communities, the defence of human rights, women's rights and gender equality. it is necessary to build a society where impunity is not acceptable and where all violations of human rights and crimes against civilians are prosecuted. the european union, as a neighbour and partner, must now more than ever stand by egypt in its transition to democracy.
in writing. − eu-china relations today are a multi-layered dialogue covering the whole spectrum of links from economy and trade to culture and everyday contacts between citizens. this report is useful precisely because it highlights both the points where progress has been made and the aspects which are still to be developed. bulgaria, through its tax policy, can easily attract chinese investors to use the country as a strategic access to the european single market. on the other hand, the chinese market itself should provide opportunities for our business. that is why i share the concern about the significant trade imbalance and the lack of sufficient chinese direct investment mentioned in the report. internationally, despite some improvement in bilateral relations between the prc and taiwan, the south china sea islands dispute continues to raise concerns. the report does not fail to raise the issue of the need for democratization and protection of human rights, especially of minorities and different religions. the chinese leadership was called upon to reform the electoral system, improve the functioning of the judiciary and fight corruption. we can be satisfied that this was done in clear language and without compromising the values that we have always defended in this chamber, regardless of the country in question.
author. − mr president, i would urge you all to support the adoption of the emergency resolution on the plight of minority groups in iraq, in particular the iraqi turkmen. literally hundreds of men, women and children are dying each year in attacks targeted on the turkmen community, and this tragedy must be stopped. a dreadful example which represents just the tip of the iceberg of the sectarian violence against the iraqi turkmen is the horrific suicide bomb attack that took place on 23 january this year at the funeral in tuz khurmatu of a turkmen civil servant, who had himself been assassinated the previous day. this attack claimed the lives of a further 42 ethnic turkmen and wounded another 117. despite the findings of iraq’s own high commission for human rights, which acknowledges that the turkmen have been subjected to terrorism, bombings, kidnappings and assassination, neither the federal government of iraq nor the kurdish regional government have done enough to provide security and protection for all iraqi citizens in general, and the turkmen in particular, because they have been numerously targeted on a large scale. this resolution is not just for the turkmen, it is for all the minority communities of iraq who long for peace and security. therefore, the eu should work closely with the iraqi government and use all the tools at its disposal to encourage the iraqi government to provide adequate protection to the turkmen and other minorities. lastly, i would like to thank all the political groups for their support in putting such an important resolution before the plenary and urge members, once again, to adopt it, because europe has to demonstrate that it has not forgotten the turkmen community or other iraqi minorities, and that we will endeavour to ease their suffering.
in writing. mr chairman, colleagues, i do not support either the commission proposal or the report adopted in the committee on the environment on the temporary withdrawal of a large number of carbon allowances from the emissions trading scheme. the aim is to achieve an artificial reduction in the supply of allowances, thereby stabilising emissions trading at higher price levels. the ets was designed to operate on a market basis and the low price of allowances is due to the market's correct reaction to surpluses and increased supply. the surpluses came from the contraction of national economies and the decline in energy consumption. so the solution is not to withdraw quotas, but to revive economies and growth measures that lead to more demand. if the proposed measure is adopted, it will inevitably hit the competitiveness of a number of industries, because the increase in the price of electricity is inevitable. at this moment of crisis, such an increase is highly unacceptable to the industry and to the population. let me remind you of the mass protests in bulgaria in february 2013 over high electricity bills. i cannot even accept that at such a time it is possible to accept an artificial increase in the price of electricity through legislative measures. i call for the proposal to be rejected.
madam president, i would like to start by expressing my satisfaction and congratulations to the rapporteur for bringing this very long-lasting trialogue and the negotiations with the council to an end. there is no doubt that cybersecurity is an issue which has increased in importance in recent years. we are not going to see expansion of the entire potential of the digital economy if there is no confidence in a resilient network and information system. therefore, we really need to see the whole setting and the whole institutional engagement to maintaining cybersecurity in europe. i am very happy that we already have in the pipeline a commission proposal for a cybersecurity strategy, alongside the network information security directive which is going to be considered by parliament. i would like to see a more ambitious directive for enisa. i would like to see enisa not having a limited mandate, but being able to work and perform better on implementation in respect of cybersecurity issues. still, what we now have on the table is a good result. we have to vote for it and look forward to the next documents presented by the commission.
bulgaria is facing elections and if the citizens and the real opposition are not represented in this parliament and the vote of the bulgarians is replaced again, there will be civil war in the territory of the eu! i warned you about the dictator, the european spring, the censorship. i don't want to be a bad prophet again. but today it was found out - illegal wiretaps are being carried out by the ministry of internal affairs, and minister tsvetanov is the head of the gerb's pre-election staff, proving that borisov only plays in fixed matches. i call on the union and the epp to withdraw their support for them and to remove tsvetanov from the lists and arrest him immediately. i demand observers and a review of the overall preparation of the elections, the cec, some sociological agencies and media that mislead the bulgarians that there is no choice and no alternative. they're pressuring people not to support me and my formation. get involved, because this is not just an embarrassment for the epp, but for you!
in writing. - dear mr and mrs mr president, ladies and gentlemen, non-discrimination is one of the fundamental guarantees of respect for human rights. the report by ms gurmai is important not only because it confirms this idea but also because it monitors the implementation of a major directive in this area. unfortunately, one of the objectives of the document cannot be achieved because there is still no commission report on the application of the equal access and service directive. i believe that despite the delay, the commission will present a report as soon as possible so that monitoring can take place. in view of the findings of the report, i would also like to call for the completion of the transposition process by the member states as soon as possible. finally, i believe that member states that have already set up gender equality bodies will carry out the necessary legislative reforms to guarantee their independence and the fullness of their competences.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my satisfaction that the reports of the court of auditors have not identified considerable weaknesses in the execution of the budget, and the court has also said that the institutions – other than the commission – do not have material errors in the implementation of the budget for last year. i think this is good news, because at this particular moment parliament is very much engaged in working on the next financial framework. given the economic environment, the perspectives and the scarcity of resources, efficient and correct use of the budget of the european union becomes a more and more important issue. i would like to mention two institutions which we have to have a particular look at. one of them is the european external action service. we have sent a number of questions – in fact a flood of questions – to the european external action service, and i think we have had replies to all of them. the 2011 budget was the first budget that the service conducted properly – on its own – and this followed the creation of the service, so we have identified that there are some issues with staff, public procurement, etc. but all this is in the initial stages of the external action service. at the same time, we have to recognise that the budget implementation in third countries creates difficulties and maybe, together with the court of auditors, we have to go further in indentifying what should be the patterns and the rules when spending the funds. also, of course, in the future, we shall expect some more evidence for synergies which the external action service is creating with the national services and with other institutions and partners across the world. just one word on another institution – to express my dissatisfaction that, for a fifth consecutive year, we do not have appropriate answers from the council and that parliament is not able to see transparently what the council’s expenditures have been, which is a great pity.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the report shows how important the added value of each euro invested from the european budget is, with a high level of protection for european taxpayers' money and tangible results for them from the invested funds. we need a common system of result and impact indicators in the new programming period to measure programme performance in terms of its effectiveness and efficiency, rather than just its financial performance. in future, the report should avoid including topics that are not directly related to the strategic management of european funds and that apply the unobjective use of the 'point and blame' policy of institutions and countries. involving national parliaments in the monitoring of european funds is a way of ensuring greater transparency and objectivity in the controls carried out at national level. this approach has become established as a good practice in bulgaria and has led to the strengthening of management and control systems, the reinforcement of the feedback mechanism with beneficiaries, and lower error rates and financial corrections in programmes (around 1%). the commission should start preparing a best practice guide to benefit beneficiaries in the 2014-2020 period, including the newly adopted croatia. thank you, thank you!
i would like to put the debate on the european budget in the context of what we have been doing in recent years and the last budgets of the parliament. i would say that the european parliament is perhaps the most transparent european institution. the aim that this parliament has set itself in recent years is to do its utmost to limit expenditure while still preserving the ability of members to work effectively and produce what society expects of them. and we see some of the results that are already a fact, related to both the travel of members and other costs associated with them. in addition, a working group is working in parliament to look for ways of further optimising expenditure in the long term. what is extremely important is that we combine our concern for the financial difficulties experienced by our citizens and institutions everywhere in europe with the effective work of this parliament. and i think that you shouldn't make party politics out of the work of an institution. all proposals that are related to improving performance, with reasonable cost cutting, will find the broadest support. on the other hand, we must be aware, as we have seen in recent years, that the european parliament's budget is often used as a platform for various manifestations of populism and political point-gathering by one or another of our colleagues. i hope this time that thing doesn't happen. the european parliament is obliged to make extra extra expenditure next year, which is linked to the end of the parliament's term of office, and this expenditure must inevitably be made. we're looking for opportunities and we're going to continue to look for ways to further constrain spending so that this spending increase comes in close to the inflation rate. at the same time, i would again like to call on colleagues to think about the efficiency of our work and that to be more efficient, sometimes additional investments are needed. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i do not think that this practice that my colleague mentioned is a practice used in the committee on budgets, where i work. very often we have amendments in all the mother tongues of the members of parliament. indeed, if there is room to make savings on interpretation, it should not have an impact on the transparency and the possibility of following parliament’s work, including through the interpretation services. so i think that we absolutely need to preserve multilinguism. at the same time i think that the practice that we have now is not jeopardising that.
mr president, with the adoption of this document by our vote on thursday, we express our support for the categories of ukrainian citizens who are actively engaged with european projects and values, as well as with ukrainian citizens whose relatives are resident in the member states. in other words, we help separated families. in this way we want to bring ukraine politically and economically closer to the eu. the ukrainian authorities have still to make further efforts towards achieving full visa-free travel, further address the human rights issues which were discussed so far and particularly to sign this year the agreements which have been negotiated. but now we have to give an important signal to ukraine’s citizens that the road ahead is clear and that the perspective for further integration with the european union is within reach, provided there is enough progress. we can see some initial progress and we cannot afford to leave this important european country at the crossroads.
i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her balanced approach to the progress report on turkey. i am convinced that the european perspective should remain a catalyst for reform in turkey. that's why we liberals support opening up chapters 23 and 24 and chapter 15 on energy. we also insist on turkey's inclusion in the negotiations for free trade agreements between the european union and third countries. it is high time, in the name of justice, that two turkish cypriot representatives were present in the european parliament. finally, turkey's participation in the european council meetings is crucial for finding solutions to pan-european problems. i am calling for support for these key proposals because it is time to show that the european parliament is the institution that upholds the principle of 'unity in diversity' in practice.
mr president, we should pay respectful tribute to serbia for the progress it has made recently in its relations with kosovo. serbia has shown flexibility and has taken bold steps which have led to progress in its dialogue with kosovo. the latest developments show that there are still some problematic issues to be resolved. in general, serbia needs a last push for a deal, but i do not think that it should be pushed too much into a corner. we need more flexibility on kosovo as well. i would like to point out the problems relating to the treatment of minorities in serbia, particularly the treatment of the bulgarian minority, and especially of people who have dual bulgarian citizenship. these are, perhaps, mostly problems at a local level, but the problems persist. therefore, i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on board this issue and mentioning the bulgarian minority for the first time in the report on serbia. i sincerely hope that the authorities will make every effort in this respect. let me close by saying that for serbia, the beginning of negotiations is crucial for its stability and the stability of the western balkans. so far we have been waiting for such a major turning point and for a new agreement between the two sides.
over the past two decades, serbia has come a long way, filled with many challenges and changes. today, serbia is faced with another historic opportunity, which it has an obligation to seize in order to ensure the european development of its citizens. i hope that the serbian government will understand that reaching a compromise is important not because of brussels' demands, but because it is the only way to heal the wounds of the past. the compromise is the first but inevitable step towards achieving ultimate peace and tolerance among the various peoples of the balkans. in a region that is synonymous in the minds of many with war and destruction, economic and social prosperity can only be achieved by eradicating all the prerequisites for nationalism, by achieving tolerance and respect for minorities, including the bulgarian minority. in this respect, the common european rules which i hope serbia will accept will be of great benefit. they will bring about a common approach to dispute settlement, a common approach to bilateral cooperation, a common approach to the definition and implementation of common objectives for the future development of the balkans, and of serbia in particular. ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, i would like to say that i expect serbia to overcome the past and take its rightful place among its european partners in the shaping of the future of a tolerant europe.
mr president, i would like, first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kacin, and his shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done so far. i regret to see the eu-facilitated serbia-kosovo talks fail after six months of negotiations. the talks today are the last chance before the april council meeting to reach a clear agreement on the outstanding issues. however, it is not up to the eu to impose solutions. never before has serbia’s eu future been more in their own hands. it is a matter of maturity for serbian political leadership and society. the choice ‘eu or kosovo’ is a harmful concept that polarises society and jeopardises the country’s path to eu accession, and it could ultimately lead to a result which is neither eu nor kosovo. i have to remind you that there are other important items on the eu agenda, as outlined in the ep resolution: guaranteeing democracy and the functioning of democratic institutions, upholding the rule of law, ensuring respect for human rights, protection of all minorities throughout serbia in accordance with european standards, maintaining good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation. optimism is needed, and i will finish by saying that the 22 april council meeting will mark a new beginning for serbia.
the 2012 nobel peace prize was awarded to the european union for its unremitting efforts to bring peace, democracy and respect for human rights to all countries in europe, which have inevitably transformed our continent from a continent of war to a continent of peace. there is no clearer example of the union's success in inspiring hope for peaceful existence and development in thousands of people than kosovo over the past two decades. i trust that the support we have provided will not be interrupted. however, kosovo receives funds from the instrument for pre-accession assistance as a proof of the european union's commitment to the future of this young state. at the same time, i am concerned that kosovo is sometimes the victim of political double standards within the union, which unjustifiably postpone the prosperity of ordinary kosovars to an uncertain future. i am proud to have been the foreign minister of a country that recognized kosovo's independence. as a member of the european parliament, i will be even happier to see this process brought to a conclusion by all member states. in this context, i believe that the signing of an association agreement is of the utmost importance in order to guarantee kosovo's european future. it is true that the young state needs to make a number of reforms to successfully adapt to the requirements of the european union, but the union must also stick to its promises to preserve its authority in the balkans.
mr president, i would like to commend both high representative and vice-president ashton and commissioner füle for their efforts to maintain the credibility of the enlargement policy, for doing their utmost to facilitate an agreement between serbia and kosovo and for bringing the enlargement process forward. i would like to express also my expectations that the talks between prime ministers dačić and thaçi today will be successful. an opportunity for an historical breakthrough in serbia/kosovo relations is within reach and should not be missed. however, there is a need for more transparency in communicating the outcomes of the belgrade/pristina dialogue and for the involvement of parliament and civil society. building public trust in the process is of paramount importance. kosovo authorities should make further efforts with regard to the reconciliation process and reach out to the serbian minority, particularly in the north, so as to ensure broad integration within society. at the same time kosovo serbs should use all means provided by the constitution to play a constructive role in politics and society. the report of the european parliament outlines a number of the important issues on the eu agenda for kosovo, such as the rule of law and the functioning of the democratic institutions, including the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, economic and social reforms, public administration reform, etc. i remind you that there is a renewed commitment on the side of the european union to further assist kosovo among the other aspiring countries on its path towards eu integration through the instrument for pre-accession assistance for the period 2014-2020. i have to underline, however, that the whole process would be significantly accelerated and improved if all remaining eu member states took steps to recognise kosovo and i call on them to do so without further delay.
mr president, let me bring two points to your attention. a major change has occurred lately after the independence proclamation of kosovo in 2008 and it really should be pointed out: serbia has shown flexibility in trying to reach a compromise. this was quite a bold step forward. the kosovan authorities also need to show flexibility on the issues currently being debated with their neighbour, and should perhaps be able to provide the necessary autonomy for the serb enclave in northern kosovo. the second point deals with the role of eulex in kosovo and the dialogue between the mission and the kosovan authorities. as ms lunacek, the rapporteur, highlights, in several instances kosovo’s authorities have declined the advice and recommendations of the institutions in the field of the fight against corruption, and this goes contrary to the union’s efforts to help. the country continues to face very serious problems with regard to organised crime and human trafficking. europe has been trying to help by putting a lot of resources into this mission and the lack of results is counterproductive for the european integration kosovo has selected. of course, lack of tangible results also says quite a lot about the effectiveness of the eulex mission as well and the way taxpayers’ money is spent. this is an issue which, of course, we should not address here in this report but it is something we have to deal with, because this is quite a lot of money being spent not very effectively.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to briefly present – not an assessment, but some first thoughts arising from the european citizens’ initiative. it is too early to draw any definitive conclusions, but it is very useful here today to be able to hold a discussion with you, to reflect where things stand and to sketch out a few considerations that may serve for the future. i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament who have been so active in getting this into place, following it up and promoting it. although the first 12 months of the european citizens’ initiative have not been without difficulties, i believe that we can be proud of this new instrument of participatory democracy. broadly speaking it has been a success. the positive trends of the first year suggest that we are witnessing something which has the potential to become a very popular, and possibly influential, means of enabling european citizens to get directly involved in the work of our institutions. the european citizens’ initiative gives us grounds for optimism: citizens want to have their say, they want to get involved. it is up to us to provide them with the means to do so, and – while it is impossible to predict the end-result of any single initiative – to ensure that they feel it is worth their while. fourteen initiatives are currently registered with the commission; they cover a very broad range of areas – media pluralism, public goods and services, education, animal testing, climate change, voting rights, roaming charges, speed limits and mobility. together, they have collected in the region of 2 million statements of support. but, looking beyond that, it is evident that these groups are mobilising cross-border public opinion and triggering europe-wide debates on very important issues and that, of course, is what we wish the initiative to do. it has not been trouble-free, however. there have been some well-documented teething problems, and the commission, in cooperation with the organisers and the member states, has had to work significantly harder than we could have predicted to ensure that the instrument was quick and successful. it has been a learning curve for all parties involved. let me highlight a few issues where the commission has been trying to deal with the initial hurdles, as well as clarify some misunderstandings and misconceptions. when the european citizens’ initiative entered into force a year ago, in april 2012, few expected the organisers to have such difficulties in finding affordable service providers to host and to help with the certification of their online collection systems. the commission therefore offered, as a temporary and optional solution, to host online collection systems on its servers in luxembourg, free of charge. in order to compensate for the time which was lost, the commission also undertook to take into consideration valid statements of support collected beyond the 12-month deadline laid down by the regulation and up until november of this year. as you can imagine, these measures have had an important impact on the time and resources that the commission has had to invest. it has gone to considerable lengths to provide organisers with training, guidance and advice at all stages of the procedure, and it has had to engage extensively with the member states to overcome their concerns. these concerns have now been dealt with, and we can expect future organisers to be better prepared, technically and administratively. needless to say, the commission has gone far beyond what is strictly required by the regulation to make the european citizens’ initiative a success. some of you may say that much of this work would not be necessary if the requirements of the implementing regulation were less strict. that might be true, but we are dealing with very important and sensitive personal data here. the security and technical requirements are designed to protect not only the signatories but also the organisers responsible for collecting signatures. of course, nothing is set in stone. the commission is continuously engaging with the organisers and with parliament to ensure that any decision about a possible revision of the legal framework is taken on a well-informed basis. perhaps the biggest question that will need to be resolved by the review of the legislation is whether to keep the current, decentralised system for the hosting of initiatives or move towards a centralised system of collecting signatures. with regard to the online collection software developed by the commission, critics have argued that it does not help organisers carry out their campaigns. that is entirely correct. vice-president šefčovič has said that the tools provided by the commission are designed to facilitate the collection of signatures – nothing else. it is up to the organisers themselves to market and broadcast their initiatives effectively. the commission can continue to offer technical help to optimise the preparation and use of the procedure. also, there are claims that the commission’s online collection software has not been tested; that is not accurate. proper testing has been carried out for each release, including unit tests, functional tests, stress tests and vulnerability tests. there have also been concerns to ensure that this open-source software is further improved using a community approach. steps to do that are under way – an open-source community workshop was organised by the commission late last year – and we are encouraging contributions from external stakeholders. to date, however, only two external developers have expressed an interest in participating. the commission is of course also in direct contact with citizens. the most legitimate criticism we hear is that citizens discover that they are unable to support any initiatives and are therefore denied this treaty right. this is not related to the software or the commission’s hosting platform. it is in fact the legal framework that is in default. the commission’s legislative proposal allowed all eu citizens to exercise their right, wherever they resided. however, the regulation, as adopted by the european parliament and the council, introduced varying data requirements across the member states. that means, for example, that uk or irish citizens in the eu but outside their country of origin may be unable to support a european citizens’ initiative, depending on the requirements of their country of residence. the commission agrees that this is not acceptable and has consistently encouraged the member states to lower, as far as possible, their respective data requirements. these are all important issues for us to consider, but they should not be allowed to overshadow what we have achieved over the past year and the enormous effort that we have all have made to ensure that the european citizens’ initiative is a success. i would like to conclude by thanking the member states – and of course this house, which has been so important in committing to this from the beginning and ensuring that it is a success. the commission recognises that, when you raise concerns about the functioning of the initiatives, it is because we share the same objective: reconnecting better with europe’s citizens and encouraging their participation in the political life of the union. the european citizens’ initiative is an important complement to our more traditional representative democratic structures. but, crucially, it is also an alternative for citizens who want to engage on european issues directly with the institutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. in 2013, we have two anniversaries twenty years of the establishment of european citizenship and one year of the european citizens' initiative. it's a chance to say hello, but it's also a chance to settle accounts. putting european citizenship and representative democracy at the centre of the debate in the european union just a year and a half before the next european parliament elections in 2014 is a very important positive political signal that we are sending. on the one hand, it underlines our common values and principles, but on the other, our motivation to continue to bridge the gap between citizens and the european institutions. because today's discussion is useful precisely because we can continue to work together to make the european citizens' initiative what we set out to be two years ago: accessible, transparent and successful. it has many positive aspects and you said so yourself, commissioner. it's transnational, it's the first instrument for civic participation at the transnational level. it is complementary, it can be a kind of corrective to our actions, a complement to the action of the european institutions. she's positive about it. unlike petitions to the european parliament or complaints to the ombudsman, where citizens could seek to have irregularities detected corrected, the european citizens' initiative provides an opportunity for positive input. but she's mostly active. unlike referendums, where people can say 'yes' or 'no', here citizens can set the european agenda, make concrete proposals to implement an idea in a specific way. but that's why our challenge is to make it realistic. what needs to happen from here on is in several aspects. firstly, the great challenge remains to continue to raise awareness that instruments such as the european citizens' initiative should emerge more spontaneously in people's minds as a means of protecting their interests, and this is my first question to the commission. how can we continue to strengthen information campaigns, how can we make citizens spontaneously think of the citizens' initiative as another of their own tools, to participate directly in the decision-making process in the european union? so it's necessary that the citizens believe in this initiative. that is why we must continue to actively monitor the process of its implementation. it is also necessary to strike a balance between the expectations of the people and the legislation that is likely to follow. so i think we should think about some changes here today. the rapporteurs from the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on petitions introduced many improvements during the legislative procedure. however, we still have some stages of the process that are slow and complicated. we need to make it effective and attractive, and we'll do that by making the procedure itself easier. we understand that the european commission has been with us all along when temporary measures had to be taken to address technical gaps and problems with access to servers. we have to continue to monitor this technical aspect very carefully. i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to one more question. we have data that for some of the initiatives, there will actually be less than 12 months left to collect signatures online. what will the european commission do to ensure equal opportunities for all participants? i would also like to say that some of the initiatives need to have more concrete dimensions. only then will we have a guarantee that they can be adapted in the form of a legislative act of the european union. it's not enough to support. i would also like to focus on the role of the european parliament and the role of petitions. we can be extremely helpful in the hearings, we have experience in organizing such events. what we need to do is to continue, together with all the institutions, to emphasise the essence of the european citizens' initiative, namely that it is for citizens only.
in writing. the citizens' initiative has only been in existence for one year. in the meantime, this new european instrument is gaining popularity and has the potential to establish itself successfully as a unique opportunity for citizens to participate directly in democratic processes in the eu. so far, eu citizens have exercised their right of initiative 14 times on a wide range of issues - from education, voting rights and climate change to animal testing, media pluralism and roaming charges. the most important achievement is that these initiatives are cross-border and succeed in launching a pan-european debate on issues that are important for the future of each of us. despite the initial obstacles, i commend the commission for its efforts to resolve the problems and to find a way to facilitate procedures for citizens and to provide effective training for the organisers who collect the signatures. the implementation of this new civil society instrument can be a good example for the introduction of similar opportunities at national level in many member states, including bulgaria, where similar forms of citizen participation are not applied.
in writing. there is no doubt that renewable energy will become increasingly important because of the urgent need to reduce energy dependence on conventional energy sources and to achieve a clean energy supply for european industry. the use of over 170 incentive schemes has led to a large growth of the renewable energy sector, but at the same time a significant financial burden has been imposed on consumers and despite the subsidies, the competitiveness of renewable energy is weak compared to traditional energy production methods. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the beneficiaries are able to meet their obligations under the scheme. i welcome the development of guidelines for reforming national res subsidy schemes on the basis of proven good practices, which will help to harmonise the ways in which res are subsidised and improve their public acceptability. however, i believe it is imperative to create a single eu-wide system of support for renewable energy based on the crucial advantages of a technology-neutral european market for renewable energy certificates and mandatory shares for renewable energy production. this is the only way to unlock the overall potential of renewable energy in the most cost-effective way possible for the different renewable energy technologies and to create competition between them.
in writing. when it comes to protecting the environment, eu countries always strive for the highest standards. european consumers and citizens must always be protected to the fullest. safety in offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production needs to be guaranteed to the highest degree because of the many risks to nature and people. with the granting of new concessions for exploration and production of gas within the bulgarian waters, our country is interested in increased control in this area. the draft directive is addressed only to member states with a sea-side access, but should also apply beyond union territorial waters. the objective is to limit the risk of accidents in oil and gas operations. the measures envisaged include sharing best practices, strengthening the capacity to respond quickly to emergencies and improving the regulatory provisions on compensation and benefits. this should ensure the independence of the european maritime safety agency, remove potential conflicts of interest and strengthen licensing requirements, with the requirement that the investor has sufficient financial resources to cover the damage of an incident.
mr president, madam minister, commissioners, we are discussing the scale of tax evasion and avoidance, with some one trillion or one thousand billion euros leaking out of the european economy every year. but i want to focus on some other aspects that are hard to find a material dimension. firstly, it is the distortion of the economic environment and of competition. so when tax evasion is done, it's usually done by large corporations that can use offshore tax havens. this is offset by increased taxes and a much greater burden on those who are budget-friendly, on those who pay their way. this is compensated by those who do not receive the social services they should receive. secondly, it breaks the transparency of the economy. so when offshore companies invest in banks, in media, in telecoms, we see that a large sector of the economy is run by shareholders whose origin, social responsibility and tax liability are also not clear. so i think that, in addition to recognizing that there is a difference between tax evasion and tax evasion, that difference should be reduced not only by criminalization but also by concrete initiatives and measures. there are those proposed. then when a company is in a tax haven, then it shouldn't be getting public contracts, then it shouldn't be getting public funds. there are such proposals and i hope that in the member states - in bulgaria there are such proposals - they will be implemented. it will also make it easier for the european investment bank, which we are asking to do this. and last sentence the european union should adopt a list of countries that create tax havens. this is essential to alleviate the burden on national administrations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the first reading position on the commission proposal on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration and production. serious accidents with such activities in marine areas are almost always the inevitable result of prolonged complacency and reduced attention to safety by companies and control authorities. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - the use of best practices for risk control by oil and gas companies operating in european maritime areas; - implementation of best regulatory practices in member states with offshore oil and gas activities; - strengthening the union's preparedness and response capacity in the event of emergencies threatening citizens, the environment or the economy; - the definition of a clear legal framework for liability and compensation for damage caused. for my country, bulgaria, this legislation is extremely timely, given the very extensive exploration and production activities that are coming up in our territorial waters in the black sea. let the achievement of less energy dependence of the country through its own gas production be done according to the most modern and safe rules.
in writing. − freedom of expression and media pluralism are fundamental to democratic governance. as such, they are monitored by various international organisations which monitor the safeguarding of these freedoms, on the basis of specific indicators. the trend of more and more european countries falling into disadvantageous positions in these rankings is worrying. concerns about the independence of the media are growing. there are issues like concentration of media ownership, political interference, pressures on the work of journalists. we have discussed similar problems in individual member states here in the european parliament on several occasions. i supported the development of common european standards for media freedom. i would particularly stress the call to the european commission and the member states to ensure transparency and publicity of media ownership - who are the people who control the communication channels and what are their sources of funding. the independence of journalists is equally important - internal (editorial) and external (economic and political) pressures are equally unacceptable. investigative journalists, whose work is fraught with multiple risks, including threats of physical assault, should be protected to the maximum extent. i believe that the adoption of this document is a step in the right direction.
rapporteur. − madam president, first i would like to thank mr lópez-istúriz white very much for the excellent cooperation we have had between the committee on legal affairs (juri) and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm). we had a good opportunity to present this report together to the plenary and, with enhanced cooperation, also to enhance the quality of the legislation. i would also like to express my gratitude for the explanations provided by the commission through dg justice and for the fruitful exchange of views with all the shadow rapporteurs. last but not least, i would like to thank the organisations, associations and ngos who put forward positions on the right support and protection for victims of crime. i would also like to thank everybody, including the secretariats of both committees, for their meaningful contributions. today we will be voting on an extremely important piece of legislation, the regulation for the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. this piece of legislation complements the epo in criminal matters and, in order to ensure the broadest possible range of protection measures, separate legislation for civil matters was needed. together the two instruments will cover the broadest possible range of protection measures taken by member states. we need to ensure that victims are protected whenever they travel or move to another member state. our vote today has to be guided by one key principle – to make the system work efficiently for victims and to guarantee their protection by the union. our contribution to the commission’s text was guided by the objective of ensuring rapid and simple recognition, where applicable, and enforcement of protection measures. we also had a very positive discussion with the shadow rapporteurs, which helped us to tackle the problem as a whole and to take into account the needs of and specific support services for this group of victims. as a co-rapporteur for the femm committee, i would like to stress the need to pay particular attention to the gender issue. a key element for us was to make the administrative procedure more straightforward for victims and ensure that they are protected whenever they travel or move to another member state. under the new rules, any victim of gender violence, abduction or aggression who has been granted protection in one eu member state would just need to fill in a standard multilingual certificate to have his or her right to protection fully enforced by the union. we also paid attention to the importance of ensuring that a protected person who does not speak the language of the proceedings relating to the recognition of the protection measure has access to translation and interpretation. last but not least, we will stress the importance of giving the protected person better information regarding their rights and the free movement of protection measures. that is the reason why the report stressed the establishment of the information and awareness-raising campaign between the member states. we also included provisions strengthening the collection of data by member states, which would provide an evidence-based assessment of the functioning of the certificate mechanism and would allow the mechanism to be improved if needed. the continuity of specialist support services to victims of gender-based violence and specialist training for officials likely to deal with cases of violence against women is an important part of the protection.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs, mr lópez-istúriz and mrs parvanova, for their excellent work on this very important dossier. as epp coordinator for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to highlight the excellent cooperation that has existed between the juri and femm committees, which have acted under rule 51 of the rules of procedure. it is a good example of cooperation between parliamentary committees to advance our common objectives. secondly, this proposal complements the victims' package, which strengthens the rights of victims in the european union. but through these measures we are also strengthening the european area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is ensured. this will facilitate access to justice for all european citizens, thanks to the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. this report is therefore a further step towards the realisation of our common area of justice, without internal frontiers, in which all citizens have their rights guaranteed. two key words are to be borne in mind: simplification and protection. we always talk about simplification, but this report illustrates how simplification strengthens the protection of citizens. the abolition of intermediary formalities, the rapid and simple recognition of protection measures, the reduction of the administrative burden for victims, the promotion of the use of the multilingual standardised certificate are concrete examples of measures taken to ensure that anyone who enjoys protection in one member state does not lose that right when he moves to and settles in another member state. finally, it is important to emphasize the special attention the report pays to violence against women. to better meet the needs of victims of gender-based violence, the report proposes concrete measures, such as training of officials who may have to deal with cases of violence, ensuring that victims have an accessible language, and setting up services tailored to their needs. so again, congratulations to the two co-rapporteurs because this step forward we are taking today is a step forward in the realisation of the founding principles of our european union of justice and security for all european citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, may i begin by stressing how sorry my colleague in the commission, vice-president reding, is to miss today’s debate and the vote later on, as she has been personally committed to this important file and has enjoyed the excellent cooperation and support of this house. secondly, parliament’s work and successive votes in favour of this ground-breaking legislation are paving the way for a tangible improvement in the situation of victims of crime everywhere in the european union. today’s vote will be a landmark, as it is going to put european union law at the service of citizens and provide them with further guarantees. it should demonstrate the capacity of the european union to help victims rebuild their lives, and the capacity of the european union to ensure that its justice policy centres on citizens and the need to provide concrete tools to strengthen their rights. we have much to celebrate but also much to strive for, and there is still much work ahead of us to make these laws work on the ground.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have expressed their opinion. we consulted many experts in non-governmental organisations and in different ministries of justice. there are, of course, differences between the member states but in this report we have tried to take all these differences into account with a view to making the victims’ lives much easier. that is why we concentrated our efforts on simplifying the procedures and the protocols as much as possible. we have tried to ensure that the civil epo provides easy access for victims and people who are having difficulties as a result of having to cope not only with their national systems but also with systems in different member states. regarding gender-based violence and children, of course children are more vulnerable if there are bad relations within the family or between the partners. we have tried to pay particular attention to the protection of children and also to take into account different protection measures in different member states to ensure they are compatible and that family members will have similar protection and can rely on european protection measures at both national and eu level. i have one final point. i would like to thank mrs reding very much for being so committed to putting forward these two – criminal and civil – epo instruments. we hope they will complement each other and work in the best interests of eu citizens. we believe she will be as committed to these two instruments as to a gender-based violence directive. we have an own-initiative report here in this house and will present it to the plenary. we hope that we will have the support of the commission. we will be able to systematically address all the issues that we stressed during the negotiations on and preparation of the directive on victims’ rights – epo civil and epo criminal – in one piece of legislation in order to deal with one of the most complicated and difficult problems of the union: the fact that 50 percent of the union’s citizens suffer gender-based violence.
in writing. − the right to free movement is one of the fundamental freedoms of european union citizens. both the institutions of the union and we as representatives of the people have a duty to maintain and develop a common area of freedom, security and justice. this is why measures should be adopted in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border implications. i support the mutual recognition of measures to provide protection in civil matters, as this is one of those pieces of legislation that is opening up new territory - providing protection for victims of violence everywhere in the eu. all citizens who are victims of crime should enjoy the same protection. all victims' rights and related laws must be fully applicable; at the same time, persons with a protection order must be able to move freely. this will be possible thanks to a common european database containing all orders. this is another step towards strengthening security and justice in the eu, while at the same time making european law fully available to citizens - wherever they are.
madam president, the recovery of assets by the arab spring countries is a matter of crucial importance, we have understood that. but the response to it will reflect the commitment of the transitional public authorities to their citizens, democracy and the rule of law, and also our own commitment. we know the main difficulty: this is a matter which still falls within the competence of the states and is dealt with on the basis of national legal provisions. it is, however, essential that the european union should guarantee and encourage the recovery of these assets as quickly as possible, because this is both a legal and moral imperative, but also, and above all, a necessity for the political, economic and social reconstruction of these countries. in this connection, we note three main conditions. first, in view of the diversity and complexity of the national procedures faced by the applicant states and the meagre results achieved so far, what about the creation of a european legal and technical assistance mechanism to assist these arab spring countries in recovery procedures? secondly, what about cooperation with civil society organisations in the exchange of good practice and support for these countries? continuous cooperation should be ensured. finally, we must be able to ensure and guarantee that the funds collected are used in a transparent manner and are actually used for the economic reconstruction of the countries and the promotion of democracy and, above all, that they are allocated for humanitarian and social purposes. it is on this last point that i would like to insist. international and regional cooperation must ensure that what we do will contribute to the emergence of free, democratic and tolerant societies, in accordance with the deauville partnership.
mr. president, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the assembly of macedonia, first of all i want to say to mr. posselt and to those who made the suggestion that bulgaria wants to block macedonia, this is absolutely wrong we do not want to block our sisters and brothers from vardar in bulgaria. once again, the european parliament will give a sincere signal of the desire of macedonian citizens to become european citizens, regardless of their ethnic and religious affiliation; the sooner the better. there can be no doubt about it, but macedonia's rulers, media and academic elite must also make their european path. words alone are not enough, dear colleagues from vardar. if you really want macedonian citizens to have a european future, rethink your policy of imposing a national identity based on the manipulation of the history of neighboring countries. don't look for reciprocity where there can be no reciprocity based on manipulation of history! accept the outstretched hand and let's sign the good neighbor agreement. we were one step away from signing this, the bulgarian prime minister visited skopje specifically for this. we can't help but be disappointed that we didn't make it. we need positive signals. another example: bulgaria has been trying for more than 7 years to get permission to restore some of its military cemeteries and monuments on the territory of macedonia, such as the exploded grave of colonel kavarnaliyev, but there is no response from macedonia, despite the international agreements from which it is expected to have permission for this. it is a crime and an irresponsibility, mr. gruevski, to educate the younger generations of the balkans in delusion and hatred of their loved ones. this is not the way to reconciliation and a european future. i wish with all my heart to overcome the shadows of the past and i really hope that soon we will be able to welcome to europe all our brothers and sisters from vardar.
in writing. – acknowledging both progress achieved and the recent difficulties in macedonia, the ep once again calls for accession negotiations to start without delay. the current stalemate not only threatens the country’s eu future, but also echoes internally, with possible consequences on political stability, democracy, and inter-ethnic relations. it is also high time the ep’s position was heard by the member states. while macedonia must indeed work towards finding difficult compromises, the eu must also stand up to its commitments by opening negotiations which could facilitate such compromises. i believe the new socialist-led government in bulgaria will achieve more in improving bilateral relations with its neighbours and help them come closer to eu accession. meanwhile, macedonia has a lot to do internally, notably the implementation of the march agreement between the major parties. the time for promises and commitments has ended, and concrete results are now needed with regard to the name issue, relations with neighbours, inter-ethnic relations, the economy, employment, etc. after all, reforms are a matter of political maturity for the macedonian leadership and macedonian society. the eu and the neighbouring countries in particular are there to help and to offer a friendly hand which should finally be taken.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the commission's mandate to launch negotiations between the european union and the united states on trade and investment, i would like to stress that the full potential of bilateral trade relations is still not being exploited. this is mainly due to the numerous barriers to trade and investment, as well as challenges in the areas of public procurement, agriculture, financial services and intellectual property rights, which are a major obstacle to the establishment of an integrated transatlantic market. so i am convinced that a comprehensive trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states will be of great benefit to the economies of both countries as world leaders. however, accepting the negotiating mandate without excluding cultural and audiovisual services is risky because it affects a fundamental principle of a united europe, namely respect for cultural diversity. the european union has so far successfully defended the exclusion of culture from any process of liberalisation, both in bilateral negotiations with third countries and in the world trade organisation, while showing its support for the adoption of the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. and for bulgaria, which i know best, it is especially important to preserve, support and stimulate the development of cinema and other arts. i therefore believe that it is absolutely essential for the european union to ensure that exclusion is ensured, or at least, as the commissioner has said, to clearly identify, define and uphold the red lines in this area, because otherwise there is a danger that culture will become a commodity.
mr president, does anyone have any special problems because i am a woman, or what? i would like to ask mr daul to please put his headphones on. thank you very much, mr daul, for making this point, because it is incredibly important. with all respect to you, i would also like to remind you that i would have been very happy to hear the remarks that you have just made four years ago, when gerb – epp’s sister party in bulgaria – formed a government supported by the nationalist party that you mentioned. i hope you have now learned your lesson – and you know what we are talking about. so thank you very much for considering the truth about bulgaria.
this report we have, it is very detailed indeed, but from it one can draw a very precise conclusion that the excessive freedom of movement that exists, that the excessive accelerated pace of federalisation of the european union is playing mainly in the favour of organised crime. in fact, the biggest beneficiaries of the federalisation of the european union, many times more than ordinary citizens, are organised crime groups. that's what i read in that report. and what is the solution to this problem? a new federal structure, a european prosecutor's office, that is completely outside the powers of the european union that it has under these treaties. when the european arrest warrant was introduced, you explained to us that it would be to fight organized crime. then it turns out that the national authorities are using it to go after chicken farmers who steal bicycles. no, you can't do it that way. this is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity, so we need to rethink where the problem originated, rather than introducing new methods of solving it.
i would like to congratulate my colleague jacqueline and commissioner malmström on the first report of the crim commission, which undeniably demonstrates the need for its work. i'm not gonna repeat the good grades of my colleagues. however, it seems to me that there is still more to be added on one of the most important issues the fight against corruption at the highest levels of power and, more precisely, what mechanisms to apply when organised crime is linked to the state, when criminal groups are skilled in, for example, public procurement, under the auspices of a political umbrella. it is high time that the european commission also proposed common legislative rules for the use of specialised intelligence means. this will largely avoid the risks of their illegal use, like the scandal in bulgaria, where the previous government illegally wiretapped politicians and businessmen not to fight crime, but to extort and blackmail. the control should be carried out by independent structures in the member states with the right to exchange information and to set up a specific operational network to combat cross-border crime effectively.
member of the commission. − mr president, occupational safety and health is very important in the european union. this is an investment we have to make which brings clear returns for both companies and workers. in this particular case i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, for the work that has been done. i think this good cooperation between the eu institutions shows that progress in occupational safety and health is possible. the original directive has been adjusted to take account of medical and other objectives, and its implementation and its various effects will have to be monitored in practice. the commission is now looking forward to the adoption of the proposal by council on 20 june and to publication of the directive in the official journal in early july. i am convinced that this is an important contribution to improving the working conditions of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for your comments. i would also like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs, because we would never have been able to complete this work, as we have done, if we had not been a united and voluntary team, determined to get things done, as we were with the commission, and the council for that matter, since we were able to conclude this agreement in two trilogues. i would like to reassure those of my colleagues who have pointed out how uncertain we are today about the long-term effects, dear michèle rivasi. that is our concern too. and that is why, in the text we are voting on tomorrow, we have asked the commission to monitor the state of research at all times, so that we can immediately have a reopening for new legislation if it appears that effects are being identified by science. we therefore attach great importance to the protection of workers and to scientific monitoring. the work is not finished here. we have taken the utmost precautions and opened up this possibility. thank you to the european commission for the practical guides which will facilitate the implementation of this new directive. i think it was also extremely important. i know we're gonna have to be extremely careful about this. we have always tried to speed up this work, but especially the implementation of this new directive, and i know that we will be able - at least i hope so, with tomorrow's vote - to be very effective in both protecting the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields and correcting the enormous mistake of 2004, which excluded the use of magnetic resonance imaging, which was a serious handicap for the health of all european citizens. i hope that we will have a magisterial vote on this matter tomorrow, because all citizens are absolutely concerned by this new directive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the new directive to better protect workers exposed to electromagnetic fields at their workplace. it is clear that the old directive was not in line with current knowledge of such impacts, nor did it take account of the specificities of individual sectors of economic activity. for example, maintaining the ban on medical mri would have disastrous consequences for patients. the new directive therefore rightly provides for a derogation for the application of magnetic resonance imaging. it is of particular importance that the directive be applied not only to sectors at increased risk of electromagnetic interference but also to persons who spend or work long hours in the vicinity of television or radio broadcasting stations and radar installations. i would stress that this was not addressed in the previous directive in the way that was necessary. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a key element of the directive. i hope that the request to study more in depth and long-term effects of electromagnetic effects, for which the commission should devote resources and monitor scientific progress, will also be accepted, with a view to responding to the issue in a timely manner, including the presentation of new proposals to eliminate harmful effects.
almost a month after the parliamentary elections in bulgaria and less than a year before the european elections, there are worrying trends. at the national level, election campaigns are becoming increasingly aggressive and devoid of debate on real issues, which is exploited by extreme nationalist formations. the results of the elections in bulgaria have led to the paradox the first political force gerb to remain in opposition, at the expense of a coalition of political forces with incompatible platforms on strategic issues such as tax, social and energy policy, formed by the chairman of the pes, with the support of the ultra-nationalist ataca party. it is unacceptable that mr. svoboda calls for compromises by swallowing a bitter pill the way he tolerates allowing extreme nationalists to be the deciding factor for the current bulgarian government. the more anti-euro-atlantic formations are tolerated in europe and gain ground, the more europe and its citizens will lag behind. the bitter pill will become an incurable disease from which europe will have a hard time recovering.
i appeal to my fellow european social democrats: are you proud of your leader mr. stanishev, who in bulgaria formed a government that became a fact only thanks to the parliamentary behavior of the anti-european ataca party, unlike in 2009 when the government of borisov was voted? bulgaria, like any other country, needs a stable, predictable government that enjoys the trust of a large part of society and the european institutions. unfortunately, after the corrupted elections, such a government is not a fact in bulgaria. we have a highly polarized, revenge-minded, political purge parliament with low public trust. the new triple alliance is dividing society by the hour with baseless populist proposals without prior public and professional debate. i'll just mark some of them unfounded reform in the security sector, signals for the restart of the russian nuclear project belening, liberalization of the regime for smoking in public places, signals for the closure of the state agency for child protection and its inclusion in the ministry of sports, the admission of agents of the former ss to senior parliamentary positions in diplomacy. i hope that this government will also propose useful policies that lead to success and prosperity for the bulgarian and european citizens that we can support.
indeed, this report touches on many important issues and aspects related to poverty. but i found nothing in it, and i'm not surprised, because this is a point that is often forgotten by colleagues on the left of the room, namely that rights, especially when it comes to property, must have their own counter-duties. very often those who are housed in social housing do not have obligations, but they should have obligations and this should have been provided for in the report in my opinion, that they have obligations to maintain these housing and to take care of their well-being. i can lay out a few facts here that won't please everyone, but they are. in my country, social housing is mainly built to house gypsies. that's all right. but after settling in, a few months, these dwellings are turned into ruins. even if one family is housed in a building, its common areas become the object of raids, which causes a lack of motivation for others to maintain that building. so let rights have obligations. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. first of all, thank god, it's not up to you to give permission to speak in this room, it's up to the european voters, and to answer the question, no, i'm not questioning the principle that there should be equality, and that's what i'm talking about. because when you give priority to one social group, you discriminate against all the other social groups that need these housing, because the gypsies are not the only ones. you've mentioned many other groups in your report, and let's treat them all equally.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur and members for the constructive report and amendments on a strategy for an interoperable electronic toll service and road user charging for all categories of vehicles. the commission agrees with most of the diagnosis contained in the report. it intends to propose an initiative this year to promote distance-based tolling. the proposal could include provisions for private cars and aim to manage congestion and address possible discrimination between different users, as well as the rights of road users. we should, as far as possible, leave some flexibility for the member states to set the amounts charged (possibly with the exception of congestion charges) and to decide on the allocation of revenues. this addresses the request made in some of the amendments that member states should have a greater say in setting the level of tolls. we agree that regional deployment of the european electronic toll service should not lead to the abandonment of the objective of full european coverage. full european coverage remains the objective of the directive, as decided by the european legislator, and we will follow regional projects very carefully to ensure they are scalable to the whole union. to conclude, i want to stress again that, if progress in introducing eets through the regional deployment schemes is not satisfactory, the commission is ready to move in with a new legislative initiative as appropriate.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are here today to conclude an important piece of consumer legislation that started two years ago with the commission’s proposal on food intended for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes. in line with the principles of better regulation, that proposal had two objectives: first, to maintain specific rules for foods only when these are necessary to protect vulnerable population groups; and, second, to simplify the current legislation by removing rules that have become unnecessary, or even contradictory. let me first warmly and sincerely thank the rapporteur, mrs ries, for her excellent work on this file, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the members who participated in the discussions. we should not forget also the role played by the council, and in particular the polish, danish, cyprus and irish presidencies. since parliament adopted its first reading report last year, a number of trialogue negotiations have resulted in a compromise agreed with the council and supported by the commission. it now falls to parliament to endorse the agreement reached, and let me emphasise that the commission is very satisfied with that agreement. the co-legislators agreed from the very beginning that it was time to abolish the concept of dietetic food – a concept that is considered outdated today, given the evolution of the food market over the past decade. the co-legislators also agreed that the regulation should have a limited scope, covering food for infants and young children, and food for special medical purposes and for weight control, replacing the totality of the daily diet. during the negotiations, a very delicate point arose regarding rules on gluten-free foods. i am pleased to see that the final agreement provides for the current rules on these products to be transferred and to fall within the regulation on food information to consumers. i think this is the best solution for coeliacs in the european union as under the food information regulation the current rules will be maintained and this will result in better protection for consumers, since the rules will apply also to non pre-packed foods. but let me also highlight other positive elements in this compromise. these include the increased clarity that will be created by the union list of substances – this list will replace three different lists currently scattered among existing legislation – and the clear message to carry out work on lactose-free foods and to further study complex issues such as ‘growing-up milks’ and foods for sportsmen and sportswomen. before ending my address, i would like to focus on the new provisions on the use of pesticides in relation to baby foods. i share the same views as parliament on protecting infants and young children. therefore, in this context, i will now read again, verbatim, the statement made by the commission on this matter: ‘in implementing article 11(1)(b), the commission will pay particular attention to pesticides containing active substances, safeners or synergists classified in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 as mutagen category 1a or 1b, carcinogen category 1a or 1b, toxic for reproduction category 1a or 1b, or considered to have endocrine disrupting properties that may cause adverse effects in humans, or which are very toxic, or which cause critical effects such as developmental neurotoxic or immunotoxic effects, with the objective to ultimately avoid their use’.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank ms ries for all the incredible work she has done on this very crucial dossier in the specific area of our food policy, which i believe needed some serious updating when it comes to consumer protection and especially to vulnerable groups and babies. there is a clear need for legislation on foodstuffs intended for specific population groups to be recast while at the same time maintaining a strong and clear legal framework for the very vulnerable groups. i would also like to make the point that the rapporteur has made significant improvements to the commission approach by proposing, for example, that food intended for use in energy-restricted diets should continue to be subject to specific legislation. i am very happy that we have maintained the definitions of infant formula baby food, food for specific medical purposes, etc. this is an essential element of the basic legislation, so i would like to say that i am delighted that the european parliament will keep its prerogative for approval of substances which are included in the types of food in this legislation. on the issue of other special foods, lactose will be put under the food information to consumers regulation and sports food will be assessed by efsa if special provisions are needed. food for total diet replacement is kept in the final text, excluding snack bars. milk for young children will also be assessed by efsa, and food for pre-term babies is also included in the scope. this will guarantee a high quality of protection for our citizens. i would like especially to congratulate ms ries for her comments concerning labelling information, with a view to ensuring that labelling for young children avoids idealisation of the use of products and gives maximum information to consumers of a factual nature in order to avoid misleading information.
this is a procedural statement, mr. chairman. there's nothing in the rules that says that when we want to ask a question with a blue card, we don't have the right to take the floor afterwards, so i'm making a point and i'm asking you to give the order... you can decide whether to ask a question or not, but say, i want to make the statement that i'm entitled to under the rules afterwards.
i'm very excited about this initiative that we're seeing today. some of you, colleagues, will no doubt remember how hard we fought to keep the food program for the poorest of the poor, and indeed its continuation is very important. it is very important because after we had the debate here in the european parliament on the programme so far, it was implemented in my country, bulgaria. hundreds of thousands of poor bulgarians, mostly pensioners, have been given the opportunity to feed themselves. i would like to say to my colleagues who are expressing sceptical views: please do not explain how badly your citizens are in your countries. in my country, pensioners live on less than 100 euros a month. for them, it's a matter of physical survival. if this program is prevented, these people are threatened with starvation - a disgrace to modern europe. my only comment is that the new fund is setting more ambitious goals, while at the same time, with less funding. that's not gonna happen. parliament has made its views clear and funding should be increased to what is proposed by the parliamentary committees.
the fund for the most deprived responds to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion. by 2020, we have committed to reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million. the economic and financial crisis, financial stability measures and budgetary constraints are unfortunately not helping us to achieve these objectives. some countries oppose the proposed fund, arguing that it does not tackle the causes of poverty and does not motivate citizens to self-employment and engagement. but let us not forget that one of the european union's founding principles is solidarity, and that solidarity must be felt by its citizens as they fight the magic circle of impoverishment, declining employment opportunities and increased risk of isolation. i therefore urge everyone to reconsider the benefits the fund would have in reducing disparities between member states and to support its adoption.
in writing. − due to the rise of modern technologies, freedom of movement and economic globalisation, traditional criminal organisations have gradually expanded their activities to an international level, which has a highly negative impact within the union - fraud and money laundering have a devastating impact on member states. i therefore welcome the commission's mid-term report and the desire for a common approach at european level. he's an important first step. it should be noted that the mafia is not a local phenomenon, but a global one and must be attacked on a global scale. i agree that the main activity in the fight against organised crime is the sharing of information and the harmonisation of laws across the union. the report provides good guidance for more effective european and national law enforcement to combat organised crime, high-level corruption and money laundering. the fact that the actions of these criminal networks are diverting billions from the economy is particularly painful at a time of economic crisis. we need to recover these funds and put them back where they belong. i look forward to the final report with interest and hope that the measures it will take will put us one step ahead of organised crime so that we can protect the interests of european citizens and legitimate business.
in writing. − we need more and better affordable communal housing, despite the recession, the difficulties of the construction industry and the imposition of high environmental standards. that is why i support the report and most of the amendments. i do this because of the broader scope that looks at the issue of community housing outside of the traditional debate, most often limited to the social role of housing related to needy families. this approach allows for the alignment of municipal housing policies with key union objectives such as poverty reduction, promoting active inclusion, sustainable urban development, combating global warming and avoiding macroeconomic imbalances. we rightly note that investments in municipal housing have had a positive effect on the local economy and job creation. this influence is undeniable and deserves particular attention in european and national strategies. i call on each government to welcome the european union's support for an integrated housing policy, for smart housing investment and assistance, and to consider this policy in a broader context as a combination of measures affecting infrastructure investment and lending.
in writing. − i supported this report calling on the european commission to introduce amendments to the rules on road transport taxation. transport facilitation and infrastructure development in the union contribute to the rapid and safe movement of people and goods. i believe that a more detailed regulation of the current regulatory framework is beneficial for all stakeholders. the results of the commission directive adopted in 2009 defining the european electronic toll service are currently unsatisfactory. the report, which was voted by such a large majority in the plenary, calls for the introduction of mechanisms to ensure fair and proportionate charging. the basic principle of 'user/polluter pays' for european transport policy must be safeguarded - i.e. taxation should take the utmost account of the real consumption of road infrastructure. in addition to economic and environmental considerations, equal treatment of all europeans and transparency of service prices as well as maximum convenience for citizens must be ensured in order to avoid any obstacles to free movement within the union. in this context, the commission should continue its efforts to ensure the interoperability of european road charging systems and equal access to the relevant services for all users concerned.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for mr higgins' report because the existing electronic road charging system in the eu is extremely inefficient. neither the electronic toll system nor the vignette system for passenger cars can be considered as successfully functioning tools. what is needed with the increasing freedom of movement within the union is a simplified system that allows a specific electronic device located in the vehicle to be used for identification and for the payment of the relevant charges in a central office. there are no technological excuses for not doing so, so i support the rapporteur's strong call for the commission to revise its strategy by focusing on technological solutions that work together across all member states. particular attention should also be paid to the prices and sizes of the fees (toll and vignette) because it is highly unfair for a weekly toll fee to be four times higher than monthly or annual fees. separately, the difference in road user charges across countries is also unjustifiably large and unjustified. last but not least, the policy of setting restrictions and barriers in toll systems needs to be reviewed in order to ease traffic on the union's road flows.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr koehler, on the agreement reached with the council and the commission on the rules governing the schengen mechanism and on his success in defending the european parliament's position in these long and difficult negotiations. i welcome the fact that the mechanism for evaluating and monitoring the application of schengen law will now be a european instrument and not just an intergovernmental one. the fact that the european commission will have a central role and that parliament will be consulted on any possible change will contribute to clearer and more transparent rules and a more efficient system. i believe that the new provisions will strengthen coordination and security between member states, because schengen is first and foremost a zone of trust. a collective response to external challenges is always more effective. i believe that this agreement will put an end to the emergence of additional criteria and double standards that currently apply to bulgaria and romania and will be a step forward towards their accession to schengen. i am convinced that this will add geopolitical added value to the security of the region. and right now, bulgaria is applying high standards of border security. as part of schengen, bulgaria will be a guarantor of the security and reliability of the european union's external border and, respectively, of the security of european citizens. i hope that the decision on the enlargement of schengen will not be delayed too long, because this could cast doubt on the european union's ability to comply with its own rules and decisions. it may also fuel euroscepticism at a time when we need more europe than ever.
that's a very interesting proposition. the amendments made by the german colleagues are even more interesting, because they consolidate once again an already established position. the situation of a two-speed europe, the situation where the old, big member states are privileged and get more, and the small and new ones are crushed so that the big ones can defend their interests. what's wrong with polish farmers getting the same as french farmers, because you say we can't explain it, it's kind of hard for us. what's wrong with that? didn't you explain that when poland was admitted? what's wrong with bulgarian farmers taking as much as german or british farmers? how long are we gonna have different double standards? what happened to united in diversity? are you tired of diversity, colleagues, or do you want us to be divided into uniformity? the uniformity that we'll be in the animal farm, where you'll be more equal than we are?
in writing. − the four fundamental freedoms - the free movement of people, goods, services and capital - are the european union's most distinctive feature. the most tangible for citizens is undoubtedly their right to free movement within the union. it is built on mutual trust between the member states, but they also have certain obligations. through various instruments, the european union helps each country to fulfil its commitments to schengen. however, these levers do not ensure that the schengen rules are consistently respected throughout the area. this is why there is a schengen evaluation mechanism, which monitors compliance with the rules and makes recommendations. the current proposal aims to review and modernise the way the mechanism works, and should strengthen the control of members, thus establishing the principle of equality between schengen applicant countries and those already part of the area. i support the proposal because i believe that the high security standards imposed as a condition for countries like bulgaria to join schengen should remain valid for the countries that do. i also welcome the technical amendments providing for a strengthening of the powers of supranational agencies, as well as greater transparency and optimisation of the activities and resources spent. i also support the commission's right to carry out unannounced inspections.
fellas, do you know why we're having this debate today? we are having this debate today because for years we european nationalists have been trying to explain to you what the truth is about this islamic state, you have laughed at us insolently from the other side of the room, you have showered us with whistles and insults, and at the same time you have flooded european citizens with your sweet tales of solidarity, of progress, tales that even you yourselves did not believe and continue to believe. yeah, but now we've got people dead. for this situation in my country there is a saying "after the rain, hood", because this debate will not bring back these victims that were given in turkey. and you continue to call, i can't understand why, for european values in turkey. you have to finally understand that this country is not european, neither geographically nor culturally, and let's be clear that turkey's place in the european union is where morocco's membership is today long rejected and forgotten.
vice-president of the commission/high representative − mr president, i am sure this is going to be a very lively and interesting debate, and i want to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mr brok and mr gualtieri, for a very thoughtful and balanced report. along with the verhofstadt report, you were two of the co-architects of the madrid political agreement on the eeas decision back in 2010. your commitment to and for support the establishment of the service was vital, and i am pleased to say i agree with very much of what you have written in the report. when you think back, our aim was to create a 21st-century european service to tackle the new challenges that we are increasingly faced with, to add value to the work of member states and to do more than a foreign ministry, because we have elements of development and elements of defence. our strength lies in our ability to respond to a crisis in a much more widely-ranging way, short and long-term, humanitarian development, security and political, as well as deploying military and civilian missions to achieve lasting security and prosperity. two-and-a-half years after the establishment of the service, we can say that we have a modern and operational service. it attracts the best officials and diplomats from all over europe. it is there to deliver eu foreign policy. let us be clear: nobody defined any of this ahead of lisbon coming into force. so now that we have seen the changes and they have bedded down, it has become easier to try and define exactly what we mean by this. for me there are three key elements i want to focus on. first, our neighbourhood. i said when i was asked to take office that we should be defined in the european union by what we are able to do in our own neighbourhood. i still believe we have unparalleled influence and leverage to promote and to deliver change in our neighbourhood, and we should use it. secondly, the comprehensive approach. the merger of three different jobs makes the eu a unique foreign policy partner, because we can combine the different instruments that we have: our support for the rule of law, our civilian and military operations, our development aid, our diplomacy; operations that tackle not only the symptoms but also the underlying causes of a crisis or a situation, and our capacity to remain there for the long term. and the critical mass. we are the world’s largest economy. in today’s world it matters. collectively we can achieve things that individual member states – and they all say this – cannot do. that is why, for example, it is right that the european union is leading on work in somalia, our work in serbia kosovo and on the iran nuclear file. so in approaching the review, we need to look at ways to strengthen our ability to deliver in these core areas. i am pleased to see in the report that we agree on so many issues. you have high levels of ambition, and i welcome your support for the comprehensive approach concept, the need to get better and faster in our cfsp and csdp procedures, and the importance of the role as the vice-president of the commission to ensure the overall coherence of the external aspects of our policies. similarly, i am encouraged by the positive input to the review from member states which goes mainly in the same direction, and our eeas success rests on our capacity to bring together the institutions and contributions to maximise influence and at the same time to reduce costs to our citizens and member states. you will see much in the review that i will present in the next few weeks that is in common with this report. it is my intention not only to highlight what works, but to think about what we could improve in the short term or for the future. i want to look for quick wins, but i also want to point to medium-term changes that will require some adjustment ready for the next change of mandate. these recommendations will be designed to improve further the effectiveness of our service. it is widely judged to have delivered a step change in our foreign policy. but we should not delude ourselves – lisbon left cfsp as intergovernmental and subject to unanimity decision-making. in situations, i have to say, where there is an absence of political will or an agreement amongst member states, there are limits to what the service can deliver. one of the key tasks is not only to act as our institutional memory on foreign policy and the home of our global network but to provide, when we can, a clear, authoritative lead in building consensus between member states on strategies and priorities, working closely with you and with the commission. in that, i respect the service which supports me in my role, both as high representative and as vice-president, so that we can do this coordination work which the report highlights as extremely important. partnership with parliament is a very important part of the success, and the agreement we have on political accountability has brought considerable improvements. we have a very successful practice of exchange of views with newly-appointed heads of delegations and eusrs – valued, i believe, by parliament and by me and by those individuals who appear before you. excellent cooperation on election observation missions: i pay tribute to parliament for the work you do on this and the intensified dialogue at all levels, including in sensitive areas requiring the sharing of classified information. i have encouraged the senior management team to be open to you in every way possible. i am glad they regularly participate in your meetings and events – more than 100 events in 2012 alone. and i pay tribute to the heads of delegations who do such great work in supporting the official visits for members of this house. but i am very open to looking at ways to continue to improve that cooperation. in the report itself, i want to just focus on three particular areas. the first is cooperation with the commission, then deputies, and the structure and operation of the service. a number of questions have been raised about cooperation between the eeas and the commission and have been referred to in the opening statements. my own view is that sometimes we underestimate what good progress we have made in finding good solutions to the changes that were needed following the decision to set up the eeas as a self-standing body. looking back, i wonder if we did not underestimate just how much work that would take. but, in line with the recommendations of the report, this is an area that we are continuing to discuss with the commission, including the question of making more frequent and effective use of the group of external relations commissioners under my chairmanship. i should add though that there is already extensive work that i do together with commissioners. commissioner cioloş on agriculture, where we are working together on mongolia and china. he will play a vital role in our myanmar/burma task force in november. cecilia malmström, neelie kroes and i jointly put together the cyber-security strategy. antonio tajani is a good close collaborator on our taskforces, bringing hundreds of business leaders in support of the economies of countries in transition. michel barnier and i, who are engaged in support of the european council discussion on the defence industry. kristalina georgieva, heavily engaged in our response to the crisis in syria and elsewhere. and the day-to-day collaboration with andris piebalgs and stefan füle. i pay tribute to all of them. but i am glad your report emphasises the role of the eeas in defining the strategic orientation of external financial instruments so we get coherence between foreign policy and development policy objectives. on the second issue, i also agree also there is a need for greater clarity on the question of who deputises for the high representative/vice-president, including in parliament. in line with your report, i think we should include in a more structured way empowering commissioners to do that representation fully in parliamentary matters and internationally. and we need to go further in what already happens, mandating specific missions to foreign ministers of the member states, so that we boost the collective impact of the union’s positions. honourable members will have seen groups of foreign ministers travelling together to deliver messages as a team on behalf of the european union and on behalf of their own countries too. finally, to turn to the structure and operation of the service. we have come a long way – i am glad it has been recognised. but it is still very much work in progress. i welcome the emphasis on getting the most from our civilian and military missions. we deploy more than 7 000 people in these missions in pristina, mogadishu, tripoli, bamako, kabul, and baghdad. i strongly support your proposals to improve the speed and effectiveness of operational decision-making in csfp and csdp, and the integration of the responsible services in the structure. we have already been discussing simplifying procedures with member states. this is going to be a very important area as we prepare for the european council in december. i also agree we need to look at the internal structure and to clarify reporting lines, particularly given the budgetary situation. already in the 2014 budget i will propose a reduction in the number of senior posts at ad 16 and ad15, and i believe there should be scope to go further in this direction in the context of the institutional transition at the end of next year. staffing issues of course draw attention, both in your report and in the contributions from member states. the quality of our people is what will determine our success, and i have been very lucky in the quality of the people, not least in the man sitting next to me here and in the people behind me. i would like to thank pierre vimont and the management team for all of the hard work that they have undertaken over the course of the last three years. the annual staffing report that we will soon present to parliament will confirm the good progress that we have made on ensuring a meaningful presence of all member states and a clear improvement in the presence of women in key management positions in delegations. 18% of eeas staff are now from member states who joined since 2004, which is very close to the 20% share in the overall population of the eu. this figure also reflects this very small presence of officials from these countries who transferred from the commission and the council. gender balance was and is and will remain a top priority for me. when i took office there were only ten women leading delegations; today there are 24 – an increase of well over 100% – and i have announced a further four appointments of women already in the 2013 package of heads of delegation. helga schmid, our political director and deputy secretary general, works very actively in promoting networks of support for women in the service. we are now also very close to the one-third target for the recruitment of national diplomats. against that background, your report rightly highlights the importance of ensuring a strong presence of permanent officials. i agree. we need a human resources strategy that offers attractive and rewarding career prospects for all eeas staff, including the officials who joined the service from the commission and the council. i am very pleased that next month we will be opening publications of eeas posts also to officials from parliament and other institutions, in line with the provisions of the eeas decision, as well of course to diplomats from croatia. of course, our level of ambition is inevitably constrained by resources, and the review will need to take account of the budgetary situation. i am grateful for the support parliament has given us. you know that the bulk of staff and other resources were inherited from the commission, from the council, and we still largely rely on the commission for its corporate support. we have eliminated duplication. we have streamlined in brussels to provide resources for new tasks and, as i have said, the eeas is increasingly expected to be present and to remain in places that are high-risk as well as to respond to changes that are going on – new delegations in libya and myanmar. but in many cases this comes with heavy and unavoidable security costs. eur 30 million per year for kabul, libya, baghdad, and other high-risk places. i am convinced we need to look and transform the terms of the budget debate with member states to look at the potential for savings for national diplomatic services as we make progress in areas like shared reporting, co-location in ‘europe houses’ and similar arrangements, working together more generally in the field and on the ground. resources are also the key to any discussion on new areas of activity, including consular protection activities or more security experts in delegations – areas where at the moment we have limited expertise or competence. these changes will not happen overnight. in conclusion, can i welcome the report? you will see much in common, as i have said, with my review proposals. we have gone from not having a service to a service that is functioning. i am truly grateful for the supportive role of the european parliament and members of this european parliament in the creation of this service. i hope you will continue to make what is a very necessary and positive contribution to this collective challenge through to the end of my mandate and well beyond.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. - for the last two years we have been structuring the external action service. today it is time to look at its future development as a pillar of pan-european diplomacy. i therefore believe that the allocation and funding of the european delegations should depend on the strategic interests of the union. only clear priorities will allow for an optimal and efficient allocation of resources and experts, thus protecting european interests and making europe a key player in world politics. given the need for budget cuts, i believe it is essential that the external action service and the member states' foreign ministries cooperate more closely both in operational actions and through the exchange of experience. only in this way will the coherence of european action and the continuity of european priorities be ensured. in conclusion, i would like to urge the office's management to continue its efforts to achieve a geographical balance in the institution by hiring more staff from central and eastern europe, and to congratulate ms ashton on her strong support for gender equality. ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not just an inter-institutional exercise in rhetoric. it is an opportunity to reflect on the future of the european union on the international stage.
mr president, the annual report on human rights is always of the utmost importance. on the one hand, it gives us an annual assessment of the situation in the world, but on the other hand, it shows each time the deep, lasting and serious commitment of our union to defending universal values. the syrian case, the congolese case and other cases of concern to us highlight at least two priorities. firstly, we need, together with the international community, to have functional early warning mechanisms and operational instruments to prevent human rights violations. we have a special representative of the union for human rights. it is necessary to continue to provide our special representative with financial, human and logistical resources to increase the visibility of his work and thus meet the expectations of society, that is, consistency and political strength in our work for human rights. secondly, we must strengthen the fight against impunity. on this point, what is the european union's position on states which refuse to cooperate with the international criminal court? we must encourage those who are working to strengthen the sense of justice among the victims of human rights violations. but we should also not hesitate to send clear messages when this is not the case.
the creation of guidelines to promote freedom of religion or belief is an important initiative of the european union. their fields of application are intersected by different aspects and interests. the most important thing is to ensure freedom of religious belief. the implementation of the guidelines should also take into account national human rights mechanisms which, while maintaining the map of religious diversity, should allow for tolerance of religious beliefs. sometimes it is the diversity, especially the different newly formed religious movements, that can create social discomfort for certain groups of the population. citizens must be sufficiently informed and educated to avoid any speculation, deliberate violation of their rights by religious structures. parents can pass on their religious beliefs to their children. they are responsible to some extent for religious education, but not a few in this regard can make various organizations and structures, not all of which are well-intentioned. there are a number of examples of religious beliefs being passed on in the family that are not favourable to children, as well as examples of different religious structures having a negative influence and violating citizens' rights.
madam president, i repeat that the situation in mali remains complex and the negotiations in ouagadougou, with the help of the president of burkina faso, are at a decisive turning point. first of all, i too would like to draw attention to the elections scheduled for 28 july. the first step towards the reconstruction of mali is above all to avoid making them counterproductive. the security of the ballot is a central issue. on the one hand, it is the need for the european union training mission to work more actively to build trust between soldiers and their senior officers. lesson to be learned from march 2012 on the other hand, the signing of a possible agreement for the peaceful return of malian forces from the state administration and basic social services to northern mali will be an extremely positive signal, because it is the army's job to guarantee the integrity of the malian territory on which the elections will take place. as you have said, commissioner, the international community, the french army, the european union and minusma can only help to secure the territory, but we cannot take the place of the malian state. secondly, if we want a lasting solution to be found, all the problems of today cannot be postponed until after the elections. among the urgent issues, all violence against civilians must be properly investigated and prosecuted. the continuation of the malian military training mission, an election observation mission, technical assistance and expertise in the implementation of the road map are all concrete steps that consolidate our commitment to mali. the monitoring and support offered by the union in the post-election period will be decisive and we must be aware of the commitment we are making. i would like to end by referring to the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel and calling for its strengthening, which could really contribute to the stability of the whole region.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, it is rather a pity that it is definitely the epa question which splits this house. i will just try, maybe not to bridge this divide, but to take the emotion out of it. indeed the trade rules are decided by the wto. the wto system may be good or bad but it is acceptable to all partners, and they are part of the wto. the best thing for development would definitely be to agree on the doha development round; it is quite clear that this would be the best way forward. unfortunately the negotiations have stalled, and then we have a situation where the agreement on epas which was agreed with our partners cannot be tolerated any more because it is not wto-compatible. but we need to move forward to make the situation clear and legally sound, because we always say that we are under the rule of law, so we need a situation of legal certainty. on top of this, if we look for investments, investments come when the legal situation is clear, also for trade matters. so having said this, i would say that in my opinion it is a pragmatic way forward. it would definitely be better if it were regional. there is no question about it; it is quite clear that it would be stronger if endorsed by our partners, and definitely it would be good if they could see that trade with the union is a way to bring them out of poverty. because nothing stands still. china’s trade with cameroon has definitely increased enormously; it is very clear that there are trading partners which exist and will continue to exist in this world. so it is important also to see how our partners see epas. if you listen to what they say in public, they will be always negative. when you speak in private or in one-to-one negotiations – like in the recent eu-acp ministerial meeting, or commission-to-commission meetings or meetings with heads of state and government – the attitude is not so clearly negative. no one would enforce epas if our partners did not also support the process, but basically they do; it needs more time, more time really to evolve. as i said, the systems that we have today are not legally compatible with the wto system, so we need to move forward. i expect that we could conclude a regional epa in central africa in a couple of months because there is some movement of our partners towards a commission-to-commission meeting with the new trade commissioner for the african union. she spelt out very concretely areas where they have worries, and for the first time i heard where exactly the worries are. in my contacts with partner countries, i have always said: ‘say what you do not like; what you need for us to change, because i would not like any agreement that hampers your development’. but i honestly believe that this agreement definitely does not hamper cameroon’s development – actually it helps them. i think that it is a pity that epas are demonised to such an extent, and that people immediately on hearing ‘epa’ believe that we are trying to impose something on our partner countries. it is not true: we are really trying to support their development as much as we can in the international trade system which exists today.
the rapporteur. − i am pleased that we have reached the point, after more than a year of work, where the house will be considering the directive and hopefully voting on the directive on the re-use of public information. it wasn't an easy journey. there were a great many issues that we discussed, negotiated and resolved with the member states, and i am pleased that the directive that we are putting to the vote today will indeed allow for a significant and visible development in the field of public information and public administration in general. the public sector is the largest source of information. so everything that is decided in relation to this information and the public sector has an impact on the transparency of the administration, on the one hand, it allows citizens to see what the motives are when one or another decision is taken, but on the other hand this information has a certain, and a strong market influence. this information makes it possible to oppose monopolies, abuse of market position, gives citizens much more democratic access to information and decision-making opportunities. what does this directive change? firstly, the information provided to citizens is much larger than before. the goal when we worked on this directive was to change the attitude of public administrations -- not to decide what to put on the internet and what to make available, but to put everything they have on the internet and to only retain information that may be related to personal data or classified information or copyright or any other restrictions they may have. but in general, information should be put on the internet and available to everyone. it was not an easy decision on the part of the states. administrations normally have a resistance to full transparency. the scope of information, internal documents, etc. will be decided by the member countries. but what's important is the rule that there should be clear explanations for why some information is not made public and available. secondly, this information must be free or at a very low cost. the society has already paid for the collection, it's not new. anyway, the public administration has it assembled. so the revenue that's coming in from different administrations related to this information should be offset by other sources. and a study by the european commission shows that if you take the overall balance of the business opportunities of such information in different areas, different phone applications - whether it's urban transport, weather forecasting, financial services, etc. - and the direct revenue losses in the administration, the balance is obviously in favour of this market opening up and creating new jobs. eur 140 billion is the potential impact that the commission estimates per year if this directive enters into force. secondly, in each country, an institution is being set up that can make decisions very quickly and, if information is denied somewhere, help citizens get it. it is very important that in this directive we introduce for the first time the principle of the open format. the data format that is used should allow different technologies, different search engines to use it, so that there is no monopoly, no preference for certain technologies. and this definition is very similar to the definition that we have in the united states, which opens up even more the market that we're creating in europe. finally, this directive also covers some cultural institutions for the first time, such as archives, museums and libraries. but i want to say that it does not in any way infringe their intellectual property rights. it does not override any of the existing rules, so moving in this direction will only allow for greater access to cultural information. i thank everyone we have worked with, the irish presidency and colleagues salvador sedo and amelia andersdotter of the epp group and the greens, who worked with us on this report.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will be very short. i will just repeat what i have said already at the opening. the commission welcomes the compromise found on the revised directive on the re-use of public sector information and looks forward to its adoption by parliament. again, many thanks to the rapporteur, mr kalfin, and also to all the shadow rapporteurs, for their tremendous work. i believe the compromise is really a good basis on which to go forward.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank all colleagues for taking part in this debate. i am also very happy to hear that the general mood in the house is to support the vote on this directive. it marks a huge step forward. of course when we speak about new technologies, and about the internet, we have different opinions. i can understand the colleagues who would like to see something much further-reaching, but i am absolutely convinced that, if we do not have an agreement now, then we will not have a directive any time soon. if we want to change public information, the digital market, the digital economy in europe and the tools of democracy, then we have to adopt this now. it is a huge step forwards. we also have to understand the member states. very often it will mean changing administrative procedures and administrative and judicial structures. i think we have to be realistic when we speak about the possible outreach of this directive. this was something which was not only possible, but very ambitious. i want to thank the commission for their very forward-looking proposal for a directive, and thank the irish presidency for doing a very good job, including moving us towards compromise on very sensitive issues where member states had a number of concerns. finally, if this directive is implemented soon, it is going to have very visible results. i would therefore strongly encourage the member states not to wait the 18 months, but to go ahead with implementing the provisions of this directive in national legislation. then the european citizens will see that this is an instrument which is a game-changer for their lives, for democracy and for the digital economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr cashman on his excellent report and i should like to congratulate him on the fact that this second revision of the cotonou agreement retains the main objectives of our development policy. nevertheless, i would like to stress the need to maintain the coherence of a multidimensional approach, particularly in view of the next steps ahead for the 2015 and post-2020 review. the second revision reaffirms the role of economic partnership agreements in promoting economic development, but on the one hand we have seen that there has been little progress so far in concluding epas because negotiations are difficult, and on the other hand it seems that these agreements are not sufficient to meet all the challenges facing the acp countries. political dialogue remains a central element in our relations with this group and, as we know, economic growth is not enough for development. that is why i believe it is urgent, even though the deadline may seem distant, that the european union should define a clear position on what it wants for the future of the acp-eu partnership. in this context, i would like to ask two questions. in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i proposed the creation of a working group on the future of cotonou. the acp-eu jpa, with its experience, could be very useful in defining the future of the cotonou agreement and i ask that its position be taken into account. secondly, each revision is based on a balance sheet and the last revision showed us that the national parliaments were rather left out of the process. can you assure us, commissioner, that the views of the national parliaments of the acp countries will be taken into account in the next steps?
mr president, i would like to support the motion of my colleague manfred weber. for 18 days, thousands of citizens in bulgaria have been protesting against the policies of the government of the bsp, dps and ataka. what we're seeing in bulgaria right now is this: on the one hand, the instability of the parliamentary majority, which can only function with the support of attack. second, an unprecedented suggestion by the speaker of the national assembly to restrict the freedom of the media in the country. third, lack of transparency in the overall decision-making process and appointments in the executive and legislative branches. a debate on these issues is necessary to show first of all the bulgarian citizens that their voice is heard, and here, as the european parliament, to send the message that we do not apply double standards to different countries and different ruling parties.
in bulgaria, people are on the streets. parliament has again failed to change the electoral code so that even the most ardent skeptics have faith in the election. international observers found serious violations in the most unfair and rigged elections, and the 350,000 ballots discovered were only part of the rigging that was being prepared. less than 50% voted, and 25% of them have no representation in parliament. fake elections create a fake parliament and a fake government, which lead to hunger, misery and despair. the biggest losers from the falsifications were from the national front for the salvation of bulgaria, who took 3.8% and barely got enough to enter parliament. they asked the court to annul the election, providing indisputable evidence of hundreds of violations in all the polling stations. therefore, the european parliament must intervene on the side of the suffering bulgarian parties, otherwise it will undermine democracy in bulgaria.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr marinescu for an excellent report and mr bach and mr sturdy for their contributions as rapporteurs for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on international trade. aviation is a strategically important sector, as the rapporteur has already mentioned. the aviation industry supports over 5 million jobs and contributes more than eur[nbsp ]350 billion to european gdp. europe is a world leader in manufacturing and in aviation-linked research and development. but the european aviation sector is going through tough times. international competition, especially in air transport, is becoming fiercer and fiercer. the commission believes that the eu’s external aviation policy needs to change to meet these challenges. europe must maintain a strong and competitive aviation industry. over the past 10 years, we have shown that europe can make a difference. we have achieved results that never would have been possible without coordinated eu-wide action. but we can, and must, do much better. this is where the external aviation policy has an important role to play. so i am very pleased that this report strongly supports a more ambitious and better coordinated policy. it is time for the eu to act with one voice. this is a key issue. i would like to, if i may, single out one particular aspect: we need to be able to normalise our – difficult – aviation relations with russia, including on the famous question of siberian over-flights. i will therefore soon request a mandate from the council to open negotiations on a comprehensive eu-russia air transport agreement. your support for this would be helpful. russia seems to have been left out of paragraph[nbsp ]39 of the motion for a resolution which lists the countries with which the commission should negotiate a comprehensive agreement. i encourage you to include russia in that list.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the extensive and very substantive report that brings together the maritime sector policies. i would like to stress that blue growth could not be achieved unless a marine culture was first developed, which has a leading role in its implementation. it's a process that involves many institutions and organizations, education as well. however, there are no maritime subjects in the curricula, vocational schools related to maritime affairs are not particularly interesting, maritime professions are not considered attractive in higher education. to change this, maritime states need to have clearly defined priorities and strategies and to have a highly integrated maritime policy. its fragmentation across different institutions and an out-of-sync legislative framework have doomed it to failure. it is important to respect the model of the european union's integrated maritime policy. and i cannot help mentioning here, of course, that we have to go back to the issue of the black sea strategy and its future, which is extremely important.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the agreement reached on the 2014-2020 mff, which shows that the european institutions need to work together and not turn the eu budget into an interinstitutional hostage. the achievement of a compromise is key to ensuring a stable and predictable environment for investors as well as for member states when programming their budgets and preparing large long-term investment projects. in my view, the main shortcoming in the planning of the framework was not the volume of the resources committed, but the lack of a fundamental restructuring of its logic with a view to turning it into a long-term investment instrument - that is, to eliminate inefficient budget lines rather than simply adding new priorities in a systematic way. the challenges of today require that the mff is spent wisely, with a view to impact and 'added value' for our citizens and the eu as a whole. the european budget should not be the only means of achieving 'europe 2020', but it has the main role of driving and guaranteeing the achievement of the common objectives. in this context, i welcome the provision of greater flexibility to the budgetary framework, which will allow funds to be directed towards priority areas such as promoting youth employment, education and increasing the competitiveness of the european economy through investment in research and development. thank you, thank you!
mr president, mr prime minister, commissioners, the compromise reached on the multiannual financial framework was very difficult, not least because parliament had new functions, and i would like to ask the european council to get used to the new functions of parliament. the procedures that are required require co-decision on most issues and therefore the european parliament has not adopted and will not adopt presumed decisions that are taken by one side only, the council, without the european parliament being involved. as regards the content of the compromise reached, we cannot be satisfied with the budgetary levels that were envisaged. we are not satisfied because we continue to believe that they will not be able to finance the political objectives that the same prime ministers, heads of government and heads of state have set for the european union. at the same time, we are pleased that some of our main priorities, related to youth unemployment, related to competitiveness, related to the fund for the support of the poorest, were included in the last compromise that was made. i believe that important steps have also been taken in the area of budget reform. i would particularly like to stress the agreements for more flexibility and parliament will insist that every single euro that is included in the relevant budget ceilings be used for european policies. in addition, the mid-term budgetary review and own resources are also important issues on which parliament will press for concrete results. finally, i would like to stress that there are still a few conditions to complete the negotiations. the first condition is that the negotiations on the legal bases are completed and i would like to ask the council to open those topics which it has not yet opened in the field of agricultural policy and in the field of cohesion development, which were decided by the february council but on which parliament has the right to take joint decisions. and secondly, we will await the final decision on the budget update and the payment of all the payments that have to be made this year.
blue-card question. – where did you get the information that the gerb government in bulgaria was supported by the ataka party and do you know – you stated this lie, mr verhofstadt, which has been repeated many times here in the parliament, also by the left – that mr borisov’s government in bulgaria was at no time only supported by this extremist, anti-european party, ataka? in those days we had the support of other parties – two parties which voted for the government – and there is a big difference between the situation now, with a socialist-led government, and the government of mr borisov. on the contrary, in april 2012 the socialists and ataka voted against the government of that time and called for a vote. because you are stating these untruths i would like to ask you where you got your information from.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr weber, as the main spokesman of the gerb party in the european parliament, let me first tell you that in fact your group's presence here is much less than that of the socialists. ask yourself the question, "why?" they're probably evaluating the situation from both sides. but i just want to say one thing because you've been talking a lot. let me ask you one thing... since when is registering for parliamentary attendance considered a political act of support because attacca has never voted for us? unlike the two years when your party gerb was in power and they supported the government and voted for all the laws. can you tell the difference between the two? because we're supposed to be working together. we've worked together in albania and macedonia to convince the socialists to return to parliament. it's been a month since gerb was in this parliament. answer me: can we work together? because we need opposition.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. weber, the more i listen to you, the more i understand that you suffer from some kind of special kind of split. a moment ago in the debate on hungary you defended certain principles, now in the debate on bulgaria you are on the opposite position. apparently, you write about hungary in the morning, bulgaria in the afternoon, or whatever they're so helpful to you. but my question is this: by what right exactly will you declare against the legally elected bulgarian government and the will of the bulgarian people in these elections and will you want early elections in bulgaria? do i want early elections in germany because your government has led your own country to certain results that are obviously not accepted by everyone?
a question asked by raising a blue card. i'm taking issue with something you said, mr. morais, about the combination of powers in the bulgarian national security agency. do you think that what i have gathered from your words confirms or denies that in fact this agency has been turned into a new stasi?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis has caused political turmoil in almost half of the european countries. the political situation in bulgaria is no exception, but unlike the previous debate, our laws are being applied and our institutions are functioning normally. in bulgaria, we chose the rule of law and democracy. elections were held and a government was formed according to constitutional rules. we have a national assembly that is actively working, even though the former rulers are not going to work and are not fulfilling their duties. some of the citizens are protesting, and that's legal and democratic. the government has complied with their initial demands and continues to work under the pressure of the citizens, which is its constant corrective. the attack party, which mr. weber is targeting, does not support this government. it's not in coalition with the incumbent party or the aclu. the first bulgarian politician who counted on the support of ataka was boyko borisov and then the epp did not express its disapproval. gerb remained isolated due to its anti-democratic governance and political incorrectness. the current government is an alternative and it should be given a chance because it is in the public interest to negotiate the new programming period, draft a new electoral code and then hold elections. let's respect the rule of law and democracy, gentlemen! we're here on their behalf. (the president agreed to answer one question in the form of a blue card (rule 149 (9))
a question asked by raising a blue card. mrs. hussmanova, two questions to which you can only answer with a "yes" or "no". do you think that without the parliamentary behavior of ataka, whatever it is, there would be this government of mr. oresharski? - yes or no? and do you think that the election campaign in bulgaria was, as you said, democratic, tolerant and by european standards? would you also answer me, if you could, with a yes or a no?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. kovachev, if your party had been in parliament, if it had worked, and had not let its voters expect anything from it, this government would have worked even more successfully. and during the elections in bulgaria, what your party did, all bulgarian and european citizens saw.
on behalf of the efd group. people are on the streets right now because they have this freedom. for the last four years, they've been arrested only if they say something against the government. why is europe only now paying attention to bulgaria, when it has ignored previous numerous signals of dictatorship, censorship and misery? the epp, your behaviour is a hypocrisy that repels people and increases euroscepticism. i'm the last person to defend the rule of the socialists. they created and appointed the pseudo-democrats in my country as the opposition. but how is it that four years, under much worse circumstances - business failure, hunger and misery, totalitarianism, people setting themselves on fire in despair - you did nothing? answer me why you tolerated gaddafi in the face of borisov? why did you put up with the bulgarian kgb or stasi in the person of tsvetanov? why did you tolerate the wiretapping of everyone in the country, crushing political and economic opponents? why do you tolerate a president elected after rigged elections, and why do you tolerate a head of the financial watchdog who is under investigation by the prosecutor's office and the police?
madam president, the situation in my country is absolutely unique and i am extremely proud to see for the first time hundreds of thousands of young people who day after day, for the twentieth day now, consistently defend their civic position. but let me explain to you a little bit more simply what the main problem for me is that brought these people to the street, and it's not that complicated either. the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not the qualifications you now throw at the parties that bulgaria's government is based on. the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that four years ago these parties were blood enemies, they were against each other in the most cruel way, and now in a completely unnatural, frankenstein-like unprincipled way they are uniting with each other. this is what annoys the bulgarian citizens this lack of principle, which also leads to corrupt governance and therefore the democratic way out is new elections that give a clear majority.
madam president, i want to say right away, for the sake of clarity, that attack is an anti-european, xenophobic nationalist party that is far from european values. i say it now, i say it then, when the borisov government was holding on to the ataka votes in the confidence votes it wanted in parliament. today the situation is the same, except that the key to not being decisive in the attack in parliament is in gerb, in borisov's party. we can't blame them for going to work in parliament. then, when borisov's party enters parliament, then attack will not be decisive. and mr. weber, i want to tell you that the president of the european parliament, as well as the chairman of the parliamentary group of the socialists, spoke to the president of bulgaria and to borisov personally last week, urging him to enter parliament. he refused. when did your leaders do this thing? or can you just criticize the socialists in macedonia and albania for this, and not look at your own group?
madam president, every debate in this parliament and in this chamber is extremely important and i want to thank those who asked for it yesterday, although we will be stumbling a bit today because we will not have enough time. it's important because it's going to dispel a lot of myths and legends here in the house. first, the political party gerb, which is the subject of this whole debate, won the most votes in the last election, but was unable to form a government, and fell into severe isolation because no political party wanted to support such a government. instead of constructive opposition, they left parliament and didn't go to work. bulgaria has a legitimate government that is not backed by the political party attack. she votes against any law, against any decision. the only mistake this party has made is that it goes to work. the government in bulgaria is only a month old and should be given a chance to continue and prove its program.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, twice in the last six months political events in my country have been the subject of debate in this chamber. between the previous and the current discussion in bulgaria, there were mass protests, the resignation of the government, early elections, a new government of the socialists, new protests, and there will probably be new early elections. trust in political parties is at an all-time low. in such a situation, a large part of the bulgarian citizens really listen to what the european politicians and institutions have to say. unfortunately, they hear a complete coincidence of the european voices with the voices of the political parties and politicians they have no confidence in. the end result of all this is that to the bulgarian's disappointment with their own political parties will be added a lasting disappointment with european parties, and what better ground than this for the development of euroscepticism and extreme nationalism? i want the bulgarian people to see that the european parties and politicians in this room defend their principles with more persistence than their members. i want, even at the price of direct conflict with close politicians in bulgaria, to defend their values. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, we respect the will of the majority today to have such a debate in parliament because we respect democratic principles, but this debate needs much more truth than is offered by the representatives of gerb and the party that supports them. the gerb government has taken the people to the streets because of the disastrous results of its rule. there was no debate in the european parliament then. now that the government is not on gerb, such a debate is being provoked. moreover, mr. weber has determined that borisov should be prime minister of bulgaria. but neither party wants to work with them. i'd like to give a little more truth. let's not forget that the situation in bulgaria is extraordinary for the following reasons: the people demanded the resignation of the gerb government after three and a half years of patience; a caretaker government that failed to prepare fair elections; an attempt to rig the elections with thousands of fake votes; revelations of total wiretapping of politicians, businessmen and others. how do you explain this, ladies and gentlemen, to the supporting parties in the european parliament? (the president agreed to answer one question in the form of a blue card (rule 149 (9))
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, unfortunately mrs. lyubcheva, she may not have been here before, she does not know that we have had debates very often, which were initiated by the bsp and the dps in this plenary hall against the gerb government, but more importantly, do not speak in the name of the people, the people did this, the people did that. the people in bulgaria fortunately don't want you and didn't vote for a bsp government with the dps, which is supported by the parliamentary behavior of the attack party. i would like to ask you again: would there have been a government of mr. oresharski without the parliamentary behaviour of the attack party?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. the bulgarian people have spoken in the elections and there are parliamentary represented parties that work in the parliament, except for the gerb party, which boycotts and humiliates a national institution. the parliamentary representation of the attack party does not support the government and everyone knows that very well, including you, mr. kovachev.
madam president, since there is so much talk about double standards, the fact that for two years the government of boyko borisov enjoyed the official and unconditional support of ataka, and then the epp had no problem with that, is that not double standards? the fact that when the gerb government made illegal wiretapping of politicians, businessmen and journalists a permanent practice, the epp was deaf and blind, and now when the new government is trying to introduce order and accountability, the epp sees danger, isn't that a double standard? the fact that gerb imposed a racket on businessmen and the media with mafia methods and blackmail, which is why bulgaria is still not in schengen, the epp finds it acceptable, and now when the dialogue with civil society organizations and businesses is promoted, the epp does not like it, is it not again a double standard? double standards, mr. weber, is a whole mandate to support the populism and authoritarianism of gerb, and now to stand as a judge of a government that is only one month old and is trying to return bulgaria to the path of democratic development. now that's a double standard.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first of all like to warmly congratulate ms o’reilly on being elected european ombudsman. i believe that she is with us in the gallery and i extend to her my warm congratulations. (applause)i particularly welcome, of course, the fact that for the first time a woman has become european ombudsman. (applause)i could say that we need to change the title as she will be an ‘ombudswoman’, but this is not new to ms o’reilly because in 2003 she became the first female ombudsman in ireland. ms o’reilly, you will have an extremely challenging and demanding job. the commission will be one of your main partners since the commission is the main eu institution that adopts decisions which have a direct impact on citizens. as in the past, the commission will make its best effort to find a positive outcome to the issues raised, through settlements, friendly solutions or recommendations. it is important that together we get the message across the european union that its institutions care about people’s needs and problems and do everything in their power to address them in a concrete way. it is also important that the people of europe understand their rights as eu citizens, including the right to complain to the ombudsman. this is also what the european year of the citizens is about. i wish you all the best in your forthcoming challenging job and the tasks that lie ahead. the commission will be on your side and will continue to build on the excellent relations that already exist between the european ombudsman and the commission. congratulations. we look forward to our mutual cooperation.
mr president, i would suggest making a very small amendment to paragraph 12, which is to clarify what is intended without changing the meaning. it goes: ‘welcomes the fact that provision has been made for an additional increase of up to eur 1 billion for the food distribution scheme for those member states wishing to use this increase to assist the most deprived persons in the union’. the word ‘it’ is changed to ‘this increase’.
i thank you, mr president, and i thank mr duff for the humility that we see in his report, and for finally understanding, mr duff, that what you have been trying to do all these years - to turn the european parliament into a federal congress - is not going to happen. but at the same time, don't be fooled that we, the healthy nationalist forces, are blind to your apparent humility. as you yourself have pointed out, voter turnout is falling more and more, in some member states it is negligible, reaching even 11% in one member state in 2004. what makes you think you can fool the european citizens? why do you think that if you hold a few public debates with people that most citizens think of no more than once a year, putting on the ballot a few logos that most citizens have never seen in their lives, you'll get them to vote more? why do you think these actions give democratic legitimacy to a supranational bureaucracy? european citizens do not participate in european elections not because they do not know who will be president of the commission, but because all they see is a constant barrage of regulations, a constant restriction, a constant regulation that prevents them from living their free, sovereign and normal lives.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes the solution found by parliament and the council at the conciliation committee meeting of 28 may. this compromise will not only enable a decision on the macro-financial assistance to georgia, which has been blocked for two years, but will also unblock union macro-financial assistance (mfa) for other strategic partners. in the commission’s view, macro-financial assistance will remain a crucial instrument in our relations with neighbouring and candidate countries. the achievement of its objective – economically to stabilise countries which are close to the eu – is more crucial than ever, given the negative impact of the euro debt crisis on our neighbourhood. the commission also welcomes the efforts by parliament and the council to set out guidelines and practical arrangements for future mfa operations in their joint declaration which is to be adopted together with the decision. the commission, acting in accordance with its right of initiative, will refer to these provisions both as overall guidelines and in relation to the specific situation of each beneficiary country. the commission hopes that, with an agreement on the mfa for georgia in place, the co-legislators can now swiftly respond to current mfa requests from the kyrgyz republic and jordan, as well as forthcoming ones, for instance from armenia and possibly tunisia.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the worsening economic situation following the armed conflict between georgia and the russian federation, and the serious consequences of the global economic crisis, which is directly reflected in the georgian economy, the european union committed itself to providing macro-financial assistance to the country in 2008. as a liberal, i support the compromise reached between the institutions for georgia, on the principles laid down in the joint declaration on the establishment of common provisions for macro-financial assistance to third countries. the consultation procedure for aid up to the threshold of eur 90 million and the application of the commission review procedure for funds exceeding the threshold of eur 90 million, as well as the more stringent measures when the conditions for the management of the aid are not met, represent a good achievement from the point of view of interinstitutional balance. although, unfortunately, as our committee chairman mr. moreira mentioned, the framework regulation on macro-financial assistance to third countries was withdrawn by the commission at the last moment, even though a virtual agreement was reached between the two co-legislators on these issues. in the cases of ukraine and moldova, the european union's macro-financial assistance has proved to be an effective tool for economic stabilisation and has become a driver for structural reforms to pave the way for the development of an area of common security and prosperity. in the case of georgia, it is necessary for the country to take appropriate steps to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and other irregularities in relation to this assistance, and to take more decisive measures to respect human rights, the rule of law and the establishment of a multi-party system, which are essential preconditions for the granting of macro-financial assistance. in these circumstances, we urge the commission to improve the efficiency, transparency and accountability of macro-financial assistance. we must not forget that georgia is of strategic importance to the european union and we must help its economic and financial stabilisation.
madam president, commissioner, today it is extremely important to talk and do more about the european union's social policy, not just because of the crisis, but to provide a perspective for european citizens, to fight poverty. the report addresses many problems, many problem groups, and i would like to highlight two of the most important. first, low pay in education, health and social services. it is illogical to speak of intelligent growth, inclusive growth, when those on whom the educational and health status of the population depends are themselves of low standard. secondly, one group that needs special attention is that of women in rural areas. they are often isolated and marginalised, deprived of the opportunity to participate in the formulation of agricultural policies, isolated from social and health care systems, and denied real access to vocational training programmes and entrepreneurship. the depopulation of the villages and the encirclement of agriculture have reduced the rural woman to poverty and hopelessness.
mr president, for the first time in a long time, i am taking part in a debate which is under the consultation procedure. the reason why this part of the law is not in the co-decision procedure (the ordinary legislative procedure) is the concern of the member states that the european parliament, the european institutions can interfere with their sovereign rights, especially as was pointed out by many speakers - issues that are very ideologically charged and have very long traditions in the member states. but with these two reports before us, the european parliament is setting an example of not only being able to respect national traditions, but also to protect them to a large extent with the amendments that are being proposed. however, i would like to remind colleagues who speak on the subject of equality that these questions are beyond the scope of the reports under discussion, since we are talking about procedural law, the choice of the court of justice, the choice of legislation. so we cannot pass legislation on material matters. i would like to conclude by urging my colleagues to support these reports and, accordingly, to take our recommendations and amend the commission's proposal accordingly.
mr president, this amendment is an important step towards bringing the biofuels issue to a regulatory and very sensible measure. and this is not just about carbon emissions, but it's about a particularly pressing issue, particularly global food shortages. production of biofuels from energy feedstocks grown on food-producing land. in the debate last term, we insisted that the situation with agricultural land for biofuel production be thoroughly analysed. today it's clear that it wasn't done in the best way. it is important, however, to support the compromise today, because despite the differences that exist in the member states in terms of indirect land use, we must protect both biofuel production and the investments that have been made so far. biofuels, of course, are an important tool in the energy mix, and we need to maintain a balance between the three areas: environment, agriculture and economy.
in writing. − in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions i have already had the opportunity to express my position on mrs lepage's report, which is that the current level of scientific knowledge in this area cannot produce sufficiently solid results on which we could base legislation. economic models used to estimate the amount of indirect land-use change emissions give different results depending on the assumptions made, highlighting the need for a more precise methodology to measure these negative effects. it is particularly important to take into account, when amending the current directives, that the development of the biofuels sector has been driven to a large extent by eu policies in this area. we must be consistent in our actions, and that is why i am strongly against including a factor for npps in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions. in addition to confirming the need to stimulate the wider uptake of next generation biofuels, we need to provide appropriate safeguards for investments already made in production capacity. the commission considers that the objective of the measure is to reduce the environmental impact of the use of biofuels by reducing the environmental impact of the use of biofuels.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs buzek on her comprehensive report, which realistically addresses the problems and proposes measures to achieve a truly functioning internal european energy market. two circumstances are particularly important for this energy market: the existence of sufficient technical connectivity between the parties and the operation of common rules for the functioning of the market. however, the necessary links for the bidirectional transmission of energy between the countries have not yet been established, nor have the documents of the third energy package been fully implemented. a serious problem is the lack of sufficient funding opportunities. therefore, i support the view that infrastructure projects for the construction of transmission capacity need public funding and i support the idea of allowing investment in such projects by pension funds and institutional investors in accordance with market principles. a study on the possibility of creating a special fund for investments in energy networks on the basis of a european consumption tax is also mandatory. i welcome the texts which require: - an urgent analysis of energy price formation in individual countries to clarify anti-competitive practices and the implications for consumer bills; - the abolition of the principle of indexing gas to oil prices and the renegotiation of old contracts based on outdated pricing mechanisms.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i just wish to underline that we do have european legislation and that, in the european semester, the commission has utilised this argument in the country-specific recommendations, so this work has been done. now let us come to the gender pay gap, which is a very complex problem with multiple causes. there are legal, social and economic factors which go far beyond the numbers in relation to equal pay for equal work. for instance, there is the under-valuation of women’s skills and competences, the difficulty for women of reaching higher positions, the unequal burden of family and domestic responsibilities, the fact of different workplace practices, and the issue of access to career development and training, as well as the actual structure of pay and job evaluation and job classification systems. there is also the fact of insufficiently strong action by the social partners and the very small number of cases being brought to court. my view – and we can discuss this when the commission puts its evaluation on the table – is that the gender pay gap is not an indicator of the overall inequality between men and women, because it concerns only earnings differences. it is interesting to see, for instance, that in countries where female employment is very low, the gender pay gap is much lower than average. why? because there is only a small proportion of low-skilled or unskilled women in the workforce. so we have to look at all this and we have to see how we can help the law to be better applied in the member states. that is what the commission will try to do, because we need to correct the ineffective implementation of the principle of equal pay at national level – a non-application, in fact, of the law – and to address the lack of a corrective system in society, with workers’ unions or courts having to come in unsolicited. this is something we need to discuss, and i am willing to do so together with parliament: to look at the facts and figures, because they are really interesting. if you go into the figures in depth, you will see that it is sometimes societies with the highest level of equality which have the widest gender pay gap. so there is something else which we should do, and i know that the austrian government, among others, has introduced transparency rules in the application of the directive in relation to the gender pay gap, in order to allow the social partners to participate and help to renegotiate structures within companies. i will put all this on the table and then we should decide how to proceed, because i absolutely agree with some of the speakers, who have been very clear here, that law alone does not solve the problem. it is a problem too multifaceted to be solved by two or three legal articles in a european directive. the facts have shown that the law may be written down, but it is not being applied. what are the reasons for this? that is the question we need to work on together in the coming months.
in writing. - women make up about 52% of the population and at least half of them are affected by the problem of unequal pay. unfortunately, the search for a solution is becoming more talk and less action. there are laws in the member states which do not imply such a distinction, but it does exist. this year, the pes women are running a targeted campaign to find a way out of the status quo, targeting the root causes of this inequality: the first. women hold lower-paid jobs - teachers, social workers, medical staff. these professions should be reassessed and whether they deserve such low financial status; 2. young women and women over 55 have limited access to employment in the labour market; 3. the majority of women continue to work without contracts and without full insurance, and even in these unfavourable conditions they are paid less than men. in the context of women's family care responsibilities, the problem of unequal pay should be treated as discrimination and sanctioned as such. attention should also be paid to the setting of standards for each type of work. once that's accomplished, we'll be able to limit the scale of the problem.
mr. president, according to the united nations, two million people have already fled syria. many more have left their homes and are potential emigrants. every day, about a hundred people try to enter the european union through the bulgarian-turkish border. most of them are syrians, mostly women and children. the capacity to accommodate immigrants in bulgaria is already fully filled. the expected deepening of the syrian conflict will inevitably lead to even greater immigration pressure. there are few options for action, as turkey has not yet ratified the readmission agreement with the european union and there is no way for the migrants to be returned. this situation can't go on much longer. the european union's position on the syrian crisis must include a solution for migrants. the union must increase its assistance to countries guarding the union's external border. the commitment to the arrival of migrants is the responsibility of the entire european union, not just the border countries. in the case of bulgaria, it is paradoxical that our country benefits from not being in schengen, because otherwise the pressure would increase significantly, which does not mean that we are not fulfilling all our commitments as a member of the european union. i want to appeal and ensure that the necessary funding for humanitarian aid is provided to keep the refugees close to the syrian border.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank and especially congratulate our colleague agustin díaz de mera garcía consuegra for his excellent work, but also for his commitment from the very beginning of this long process. this regulation has been the subject of debate for a long time, but it is thanks to its report that we have - i believe - succeeded in focusing on the very essence of our principles as a european union, an area of freedom and justice. the european parliament must also have a say in this. we now have a definition which helps to give us a solid basis for the future, because - we do not hesitate to say this - beyond the technical terms, we are sending a message of political importance as regards our relations with third countries. and to this must be added the neutral and objective criteria. it is thanks to these clarifications that any misuse could be prevented. on the technical side, any triggering of the suspension mechanism must be done in accordance with the criteria we have defined, but above all by a case-by-case analysis. this is the only way to respond adequately to an increase in migration, but above all to the danger of excessive exploitation. finally, the reciprocity mechanism should be strengthened to match our objective, namely the principle of efficiency. because unity of action and solidarity between the member states must remain the two main threads we must not lose sight of. the debate today proves this: we need a common visa policy with clearly defined instruments. that is how we can achieve our goals. i thank the rapporteur again for having enabled us to make important progress on this subject.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam chairman, mrs bauer told you how to get a job if you can't read or write. i want to ask her why she didn't learn to read and write? why did i, you, the rest of us learn to read and write and get an education? and why should those who have not learned to read and write, who have not made the elementary effort to educate themselves, be given priority? (the president interrupted the speaker for lack of translation) (the president resumed his speech) since mrs. bauer has told you how to find a job for a man who can't read or write, my question is: why didn't this man make the elementary effort to get an education and learn to read and write? and why should those people who haven't proven they can make an effort to develop as individuals be a priority for the program? isn't it better to develop people who have proven that they can, who can develop businesses and create jobs for others?
madam president, i am a practical man and i think that ideas and intentions are a good thing, but the most important thing is the results. we are debating the same problems again in this european parliament, and, commissioner, there is no result. and what's my opinion on why there's no results. because i think that the courses and training, which have become a formality and in my country bulgaria absolutely no one has felt them in any way, cannot create jobs. jobs are created by business. and young, capable, enterprising people need two things to grow their businesses. the first is financing, because at the moment the stagnation does not allow banks, or at least banks do not allocate the necessary funds for this business. and second, to provide them with a competitive environment in which to operate. because large corporations or already established firms in the market crush any new competition in any way. you provide those two things, you'll have jobs for the young.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, today, on the one hand, we have an imbalance between a progressively ageing population and low population growth in europe. on the other hand, 23.3% of young people in the eu are unemployed, about 29% of them have a real chance of finding a job, and there is a lack of staff for some 2 million vacancies in information technology, engineering, mathematics and science. this shows that youth unemployment is rooted in structural problems requiring adequate solutions and clear commitments from member states, the education system and business. member states should ensure a more flexible labour market, reduced administrative burden, potential tax breaks for companies employing young people, more opportunities for european, national and private funding, including risk capital for start-up companies and young entrepreneurs. educational institutions should reform educational programmes to include innovative teaching methods, a dual system, increased mobility and non-formal education, with the aim of building functionally literate young people with practical skills and an entrepreneurial spirit. businesses should be in direct contact with educational institutions, exercise corporate social responsibility policies and invest in human resources through training and apprenticeships. all of this can only be sustainable if young people are involved in the formulation of these decisions. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commission and in particular vice-president kroes for having the vision and the courage to address this important issue of cybersecurity. this issue has been undervalued for a long time. it is not necessary for us to speak about it, about the digital agenda, about cloud computing, about 4g, 5g, without having a resilient infrastructure. we should be clear that the mere strategy will not guarantee the safety of the internet by itself. but the strategy will change the mindset, create a sensitivity and public knowledge and create an appropriate context for the legislation and the measures to stimulate further it development. i would like to see a more ambitious strategy, better coordination and even a new coordinator and more links to privacy, but we have to express our congratulations on the fact that the commission has moved from reaction to action and to impact on this important issue. security does not come with our regulation. security is about the ability to react and to be resilient. now, with the strategy, the commission should put pressure on the national governments and on the european institutions to enforce all the provisions that are in the strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because linguistic diversity is a treasure of europe's heritage which must be preserved. the report has the merit of proposing a number of concrete measures to protect endangered languages, including the potential of new media, the digitisation of documents, and giving priority to younger generations. linguistic diversity is a treasure for all european citizens, and it is also a commitment to defend these symbolic treasures because the european union is not just a large market. linguistic diversity must be used as a lever to assert europe's identity vis-à-vis the rest of the world, while ensuring that it is not divided within itself. it is a matter of respect for each other but also respect for our common european culture.
in writing - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposal to amend the fuel quality and renewable energy directives is to avoid the negative effects of biofuel production linked to greenhouse gas emissions and indirect land use change. i regret to note that both the commission proposal and the report of the parliament's environment committee are based on questionable data on adverse effects and therefore propose inadequate measures. that's why i voted against the report. i consider it unacceptable at this stage of knowledge and experience to proceed with a substantial modification of the targets for first-generation biofuels and the introduction of mandatory reporting and calculation of emission factors and indirect land use effects, including penalties. this is far from an effective tool for addressing the negative effects. the proposal to introduce schemes and measures to prevent risks and adverse effects, including improper land use, to support the development of sustainable, risk-reduced practices for biofuel production was much more acceptable. i welcome the vote on a higher ceiling for first generation biofuels, as well as the setting of specific targets for second generation biofuels, which will preserve sustainable planning and investment in the development of new technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde on the issue of short-stay visas. this agreement and the readmission agreement are the first agreements between an acp country and the eu on short-stay visas and the readmission of irregular residents. i have supported both reports because the agreements reached are of both political and procedural importance. the conclusion of these agreements is therefore an encouraging step forward and a strong signal from the eu. finally, i supported this report because an agreement to facilitate the issuing of visas is of great importance in the lives of citizens. visa liberalisation will reduce the time and costs of preparing for travel within the schengen area. the agreement also facilitates contacts between citizens, which is a key condition for the development of economic, cultural, scientific and other relations. the visa system also strengthens contacts between people and gives substance to the principle of free movement, which is one of the eu's fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving the conclusion of two agreements which have already been negotiated between cape verde and the european commission. the readmission agreement covers cape verde's readmission obligations applicable to national nationals as well as to third-country nationals and stateless persons. i have supported both of these agreements because they represent a very important step forward in the relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde. there is indeed a very clear desire for cape verde to be closer to the eu: in the early years of the 21st century, the cape verdean government and civil society have repeatedly expressed the desire to deepen and broaden their relations with the eu. finally, i voted in favour of both agreements, because the process of deepening relations between the eu and cape verde will certainly help to improve the administration of justice and the level of respect for freedoms. in addition, these two agreements are also of regional interest and will contribute to the eu's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other acp countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it makes the right findings and proposes concrete measures to improve european policy in favour of young professionals. it emphasises the need to rethink education in a more practical way, in line with the skills and knowledge sought in the labour market. there is a need for closer contacts between the labour market and the world of education. this is an important way forward and the exchange of good practice between member states should be encouraged. the report also stresses the need to encourage the professional mobility of young europeans: this is also an important solution, and we must find the means to implement it. this also means that restrictions on access to the labour market in other member states for all young europeans must be lifted. there should be no second-class citizens.
in writing − the large majority support for the report 'measures to tackle youth unemployment - possible solutions' shows the importance of the problem. the tone of concern was common to all the speeches, and the figures quoted were shocking: youth unemployment stands at 23% and in the countries most affected by the crisis, one in two young people is out of work. at the same time, there is a mismatch between the needs of the union labour market and the qualifications of jobseekers. actions to tackle high levels of youth unemployment cover the measures set out in the youth employment package (including youth opportunities and the youth employment initiative), the use of the structural funds, the promotion of eures, the development of a quality framework for vocational training. much remains to be done in the areas of prevention of early school leaving, improving labour mobility, promoting entrepreneurship (including through business start-up loans), encouraging businesses to hire young people. the system of traineeships must be structured in such a way as to ensure adequate remuneration for work. better coordination between the education sector on the one hand and the administration and business on the other is needed to overcome the existing mismatches.
mr president, madam high representative, we are aware that the european union has a role to play in this conflict. we have already proven our commitment to the syrians through humanitarian aid and our commitment is a long-term commitment. we need a comprehensive political solution that does not distract from what happened on 21 august. the european union must play its diplomatic card and remind all those who are considering rapid or targeted action that it will not be enough. you are, mrs. ashton, and i commend you. two other things. firstly, on the question of putting chemical weapons under international control, do we have a reliable list of the weapons in question and do we know their location? secondly, on the timing of such action, how can we guarantee the safety of the international experts in charge of this mission in a country in civil war? the european union should also send signals to the member states and to the countries bordering it. it will have to ensure a dignified reception of syrian refugees. i believe that the union knows how to ask the right questions, but we must have the courage to give the right answers.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, there is no question that the proposal which has been put forward to remove, destroy or put under observation the chemical weapons needs first of all to be verified, in the sense of ensuring that the assad regime is determined that it will be implemented and, as honourable members have said, that needs to be both in the meeting which will take place tomorrow and in our discussions: verified and ensured, in order that this is not a delaying tactic or anything other than an opportunity to help protect the people in syria. secondly, it is important that the un inspectors complete their work. their report, we believe, will be available in the coming days, and that will be an opportunity for everyone to see what happened and for greater verification to take place about the event. it will be an important moment when that report is put before the un security council. i have been talking with many countries, including iran, on the issues of chemical weapons and of how we can move forward in a diplomatic process to a conference that will bring together all those who are able to stop the fighting and move forward to a resolution that can be peaceful. the honourable members have just had the debate that i have seen so many times in so many places about military action: the questions about humanitarian corridors and no-fly zones, and how to enforce and achieve that. i have to tell you that, in all the conversations with the military experts that i have spoken to in many countries, we know that this is not something which is passive but active, or something that could be done easily. most importantly, we do not see that this is going to be on the agenda any time soon, as it has not been on the agenda over these past two years. but i do not want any misinterpretation that says that not to have military action is somehow to be passive. there is a huge amount of work going on all the time: meetings with so many different groups from syria, efforts being made to bring together the international community in a common position that can exert the kind of political pressure necessary to be able to bring people together in order to try and resolve this. the reason to do that, as so many honourable members have said, is for the sake of the millions of syrians who are suffering every single day – who see their lives shattered, their families destroyed, and their homes in ruins. that is why it is very difficult for anyone to imagine that a government that fails to be able to protect its people and indeed is complicit in murdering its people can continue. this does not suggest that there are not challenges for the future about building a peace process that will allow all communities to be part of the future of syria and to ensure that the values that originally brought the people out in demonstrations against the government two years ago must be the values upon which the new syria rises from the ashes. without that we will have failed the people of syria, the vast majority of whom want this war to end and want to find a peaceful way forward and to live in the kind of free societies that we enjoy. this is also important when you think about the context of refugees. honourable members have spoken about the need for member states to think about their responsibilities. we think all the time about the two million people – which is a huge number of people – who are now outside their country. frankly, the best way we can help them is to help them to be able to go home, and that means finding a way to end this war, to support the rebuilding of their country and to support the refugees. i am pleased and proud, that between us all, we are the biggest donor of humanitarian aid. i do not honestly think anybody here disagrees that this is fundamentally important – but we need to do more. this becomes very obvious when you, like me, have visited the refugee camps and seen people’s plight and the importance of getting schools to function for children, and the real importance of ensuring that people have the opportunity to do things and to feel that they will have a future where they can engage, in their own country, in the political process. it also means that we think about the misplaced people whose lives are miserable within the country and, again, who need to be helped and supported as much as possible. i have referred to the challenges of trying to get aid into the country: challenges that we have to face but which we have to overcome for their sake. any process is going to have to be led and developed through the united nations, but it is going to have to have within it the people who can bring this war to an end. that means it is about trying to put the right kind of programme together to build support from all the nations which have a stake in this and have a way in which they can ensure that peace comes and lasts. we do play our part and we will play our part. this does not mean that i am naive about what that role is, but it does mean that it is an important one. it is important because day after day we get messages from so many countries, organisations and people to ask us to help to do the things that we do well and that we will commit to do. finally, honourable members, i want to respond about camp ashraf, because vice-president vidal-quadras and mr salafranca raised that, and it is very important. this morning i left the chamber because i was talking to the iraqi foreign minister about two issues: firstly, the importance of ensuring that people are protected properly; the inquiry into the terrible massacre that we saw on 1 september, in which 52 people died, is under way, but i have urged that it be a properly-conducted inquiry. secondly, and just as importantly, the responsibility of the government to protect the people, and the seven people who are missing and who are being tracked down as we speak. we have offered our support through the new representative to the united nations, whom i have already met and indeed know well, but also of course to support the un process in any way that we can.
in writing there's no doubt that when the world looks at the middle east today, the first thing that comes to mind is the conflict in syria. the tragedy of a dictator waging war on his own people and even using chemical weapons against completely innocent citizens naturally grabs everyone's attention. similar criminal acts, though on a smaller scale, have occurred in another country in the region, which is now in the shadow of the conflict in syria. it is iraq and the executions carried out at camp ashraf, which sheltered iranian dissidents on iraqi soil. there, in the early hours of september 1st, an attack was carried out on a completely defenseless and unarmed people who are under the protection of the geneva convention. 52 people were killed and seven were abducted. an attack like this could not have been carried out without the knowledge of the iraqi government. and the timing is not random. its organizers apparently thought that in the midst of the syrian crisis, their barbaric act would not generate the outrage it deserved. we call on baroness ashton and the european leaders to demand an independent investigation of the iraqi state and to demonstrate in a strong way their determination to punish the perpetrators. if we do nothing, our inaction will make us silent accomplices in these heinous murders.
madam president, the partnership between the eu and russia is of strategic importance, as it can create stability in the common neighbourhood. however, consecutive acts of applying unjustified trade measures and threats against countries which also aim to deepen relations with the eu contradict the principles of this strategic partnership. the transformation agenda we offer to our european neighbourhood partners aims at the stability and prosperity of their countries’ citizens and societies and we stay firmly committed to this. after all, the process of modernisation, good governance, development and the rule of law should be of mutual interest to both the eu and russia. the eu offers partnership agreemeents which are consistent with their pursuit of good neighbourly relations with russia. however, we also need to look critically at our policy towards the eastern neighbourhood. let me point out just one aspect of it. we were not active enough in contributing to the settlement of frozen conflicts like nagorno-karabakh and transnistria. this is now used to put serious pressure on some of the eastern partnership countries. looking critically, we should push from both sides. we should really help this process to reach a successful conclusion.
madam president, first of all, i want to wish you success in vilnius. unfortunately, that success has been put to the test. the eastern partnership has been dealt a serious blow by a strategic partner. if we didn't expect this, it means we didn't do our analysis right. and that's the kind of analysis we need to decide what to do and how to react in this situation. the pressure on our partners is unacceptable. but by denying the methods russia is using, we have no right to react in the same way. we should not allow eastern partnership countries to be put in a situation where they have to choose between two 'either/or' options. we can do something else -- be stronger, be more specific, support our partners so they can make the right choice. because if they choose the eurasian course, it means that we have not done our european policy well. now is the time to support them and to strengthen our relations with russia in a constructive spirit, because this will be good for the european union.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr diamantouros, i too join in thanking you for your achievements as a guardian of transparency and for the promotion of the principles of good governance in the european union, and for the establishment and development of the institution of the ombudsman in the candidate countries for membership of the european union, including my own country, bulgaria. of course, the fact that 67% of complaints were lodged online in 2012 shows the success of the ombudsman's interactive guide, which is available on his website. however, the still high number of complaints relating to openness and transparency cannot but raise concerns about the public image of europeans towards the european union. so i urge your successor, mrs. o'reilly, to continue the principles you laid down: transparency, openness and the enforcement of good ethical standards. thank you and good luck.
in writing − i voted in favour of this report because it is a step forward towards greater transparency in the work of the european institutions and cooperation between them, which guarantees an improvement in the quality of the services that public administration provides to citizens. i believe that the development of the five principles of public service commitment to the union and its citizens, integrity, objectivity, respect for others and transparency, is the basis for establishing and maintaining a dialogue between citizens, on the one hand, and the eu institutions, on the other. i also welcome the new edition this year of the european code of good administrative behaviour, which takes account of the principles of european administrative law contained in the case law of the european courts. the publicity of the code and the periodic review of the institutions' activities in implementing it provide the basis for feedback, accountability of public authorities and bilateral cooperation between them and the ombudsman. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr diamantouros on his ten years of service as an 'independent internal critic' and his efforts to find more clarity and transparency. that is why i voted for this report - because it is the embodiment of that transparency, which contributes to the rule of law, to the strengthening of democracy in the eu, and above all to winning the trust of citizens by protecting their rights every day. citizens' trust is the first factor to be addressed in the current, challenging period that europe is going through.
in writing − for three years, the european parliament has been pushing for concrete steps towards establishing a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) for banks in europe. today, after reaching a consensus, we have opened the way to the creation of an integrated european banking union to restore confidence in banks and to give both banks and the eu a sense of common strategic direction. the eu's internal market will become much stronger and safer. the european central bank is given new powers and at the same time becomes directly accountable to the european parliament in the name of greater democratic legitimacy. the eu is deepening its integration even further. the emu naturally affects euro area members directly and without delay, although the ep has introduced amendments relating to non-euro area countries. bulgaria would only be affected once it had achieved such membership. the council recommendations on bulgaria's convergence programme make it clear that the euro area will not open up to us with low economic growth or with the dogmatic fiscal policies that have been applied in recent years. to join the eurozone today, bulgaria needs deep reforms; only then will its voice be heard in the common european banking union. but it is worth the effort, and i am confident that it will be achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because european women cannot wait any longer to see their rights enforced. we have long since seen the ineffectiveness of existing eu legislation, in particular directive 2006/54/ec, in reducing the pay gap between male and female workers. the directive needs to be revised to ensure that this time it is sufficiently convincing to be properly implemented by all member states. the resolution also rightly points out that this is an investment which the eu cannot afford to lose in these times of economic crisis: these persistent inequalities represent a great loss for european citizens, both economically and socially. the commission must take the necessary measures in the general interest, because this is not just a matter for women.
author. - mr president, first of all i welcome this resolution, because it is further evidence of the commitment of the european union and, in particular, of the european parliament to the drc. at the same time, this new emergency resolution shows that, unfortunately, progress is slow and difficult and that violence continues to plague congolese society. i would like to stress a few points. we should move faster in establishing a credible justice system. the perpetrators of crimes, including sexual crimes, must be brought to justice. i urge the implementation of the addis ababa agreements so that the drc and the neighbouring states can honour their commitments and find a comprehensive but also sincere political solution quickly. without these elements, the violence in eastern congo will not stop. the political will to end this violence must remain at stake. at the same time, there is a need to ensure a good coordination of international, regional and national efforts, in particular in the reform of the security sector in the drc. this concerns the european union, monusco, the neighbouring states, but, above all, we must ensure that the congolese state takes ownership of these reforms and that it is society ... (the president cuts off the speaker's microphone)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in june, at the acp-eu joint assembly, we welcomed the signs of improvement in the political situation in the central african republic. we have also stressed, however, that the humanitarian and security situation in particular remains very fragile. unfortunately, once again, we were right. the process of stabilisation and reconstruction of the country is now being called into question. there are several priorities. the humanitarian crisis in central africa affects 1.6 million people. first, basic services for displaced persons should be restored. secondly, the problem of child soldiers must be tackled with determination. thirdly, the military aspect is paramount: the collection of arms throughout the country must be carried out. this brings me to my final point. the implementation of the libreville agreements remains the reference framework for a way out of the crisis. we therefore call on all regional and international partners to strengthen their missions in order to improve joint actions.
i take the floor on the occasion of the lack of listening on the part of the new bulgarian government to the almost four months of peaceful civil protests, protests for principles and values in politics, for which the bulgarian socialists and liberals remain deaf, but i hope for a show of concern from their european colleagues. first, we have a radical anti-european and xenophobic party that has been allowed to become a decisive factor for the ruling class. secondly, we have a lack of transparency and expertise in the appointment of key management positions, together with the unjustified change of established expert teams in the administration, which creates a feeling of 'political purge' and blocks the absorption of european funds and their planning until 2020. third, targeted actions have been taken to discredit a number of ngos providing objective analysis of the situation in the country. the apparent diversity of media, with a strong concentration of media ownership, leads to pressure, self-censorship and dismissal of critical journalists. it is our duty, colleagues, to make the voice of protesting citizens heard at least in europe!
in bulgaria we are witnessing an unending protest for more than 110 days in the streets and squares, whether in the hearts and souls of a large part of the bulgarian citizens, against an unnatural coalition, which came to power in an immoral way between unreformed communists, called "socialists" by the public in the european union, a party that presents itself as a builder of ethnic peace, with economic benefits from it, and the anti-european "ataka". extremely important changes are being adopted without any public debate, such as the changes in the security sector, and now the desire to restrict access to the archives of the communist state security and the appointment of key positions, such as regional governors, in diplomacy and in many other places in the state administration of people connected to these former structures. in fact, a scandal for a country that's a member of the european union. now the majority wants to bring back smoking in enclosed public places, with the populist argument of fighting unemployment and giving a breath of air, i would say smoke, to small and medium-sized businesses. i would like to address my colleagues in the european socialists in particular and ask them if they are proud of their party leader, who is being held hostage in bulgaria by an anti-european party, without which the current government cannot exist. trust is hard to earn, but it's very easy to lose. bulgaria and the european union need a bulgarian parliament and government that has the trust of its citizens and the european institutions. this is not a fact to be made a fact. there should be early parliamentary elections in bulgaria.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to address the honourable members on behalf of the health council. let me start by recalling the wider public interest in this proposal. tobacco use is the largest single avoidable health threat in the european union. statistics demonstrate clearly that the vast majority of smokers – more than 90% – start to smoke before they are 25 years old, and 70% even before the age of 18 years. half of these smokers – around 700 000 people per year – die prematurely. can we imagine what these figures mean? they call for live-saving health measures; they call for our democratic responsibility. if we diminish life-saving health measures in the interests of the tobacco industry, what will europeans think of our reputation? my personal experience as a physician allows me to tell you how painful death from tobacco-related diseases is. two of my brothers died from tobacco-related diseases and i still cannot forget their suffering and pain before they died. i am speaking now on behalf of millions of europeans who have already died and cannot speak, as well as on behalf of those who have started to smoke but have not yet recognised that they are responsible for their own suffering and possible premature deaths. each early death as a result of tobacco is a personal tragedy and a scourge on our society, but there is also a very direct economic consequence. these premature deaths cost the european union more than eur 500 billion every year. generations of our children are becoming dependent on tobacco, creating a range of health problems. this huge social cost could be avoided and future generations of our children be protected if we were ready to take the necessary actions at european level. it is our collective responsibility to respond to this challenge now and to ensure that the public health interest prevails over the narrow interests of the tobacco industry. growing europe is impossible without better and modern public health. this is the principal objective of the proposal for the revision of this directive – something that both the european parliament and the council have regularly called for. the proposal before us now provides for measures such as increasing the size of combined health warnings for smoking tobacco, the prohibition of tobacco products with particular flavours or with increased toxicity or addictiveness, and better tracking and tracing of tobacco products to combat illicit trade. we very much hope that these life-saving health measures will alert young people in particular to the dangers of smoking and will discourage them from adopting the habit. i therefore very much welcome this proposal and i am grateful to commissioner borg for the way in which he has devoted himself to tackling the tobacco problem. the council was able to agree on a general approach to the proposal in june under the irish presidency. the fact that it was able to do so very quickly shows its determination to take action at eu level. the debate this morning and parliament’s decision on a mandate to start negotiations with the council represents another key step in moving this legislation forward. the presidency is fully committed to entering into negotiations as soon as parliament has adopted its amendments. our objective is to reach a first reading agreement as soon as possible and i look forward to working with the rapporteur, linda mcavan, to that end. i am sure that the council can count on your support and cooperation. this is an opportunity that we should not miss. we must shoulder our responsibility towards european citizens and help protect our children from smoking. we must ensure that active smokers and potential future smokers are not misled but are better informed about the negative consequences of smoking. the european union has a good track record in this area. we have been the driving force behind the adoption of the who framework convention on tobacco control. this convention has been signed and ratified by the eu and its member states. it is a pity that the european union has lost leadership in the prevention of tobacco smoking. i am convinced that the european union, acting in the light of the who framework convention on tobacco control, especially article 5(3) which recognises the fundamental and irreconcilable conflict of interests between the tobacco industry and public health policy-making, should lead the global campaign against smoking and set an example to the rest of the world. the revision of this directive would send an important signal that europe is ready to take the lead in tackling the problem of smoking which is such blight on our societies.
member of the commission. − madam president, will today be the moment of truth or the moment of decision? i hope it will be both. usually governments are criticised for being too conservative because they have the responsibility to govern, while parliamentarians are much more adventurous. so i hope that parliament will live up to its trait of being adventurous on this directive and, hopefully, give a mandate to the rapporteur so that negotiations can start with the council. may i start by thanking the rapporteur, linda mcavan, and all the shadow rapporteurs across parties for their personal commitment. i can assure mrs mcavan that her verve and enthusiasm were contagious, and her commitment remarkable. during my hearing, i promised to launch the directive by the end of january. in fact, the commission launched it a month earlier than that. i took office on 28 november and by 19 december we had launched the directive. by 21 june, with compromises which were sponsored by the irish presidency, the council took a common approach on this tobacco directive. so i have kept my promise and the council has kept its promise too. so i look forward to a good debate today. certainly the time has come to take decisions and to deliver together on our commitment to strengthen european law on tobacco products. perhaps this will become a mantra, but the scope of the directive is that tobacco products should look like tobacco products and taste like tobacco products. this morning someone in my cabinet bought this packet of cigarettes in this building. now does this look like a tobacco product? it looks like perfume. this is from parliament’s own building. so this is what we are trying to do. we are not trying to ban tobacco. everyone is free to smoke as much as they like but the tobacco product should at least look like tobacco and should taste like tobacco as well. this is why we are introducing the pictorial health warnings, prohibiting this attractive appearance and why we are also prohibiting the lure of characterising flavours. the commission’s aim is clear. we would like to reduce the number of smokers by 2 % over the next five years, that is to say reduce the number of smokers in the european union by 2.4 million. this is in line, as the presidency has said, with our obligations – and by our obligations under the who convention i refer not only to governments, but also to lawmakers, including the institutions represented here. they are all bound by the who convention – which was ratified by all the member states and by the european union as an institution – and which obliges us to reduce the number of smokers and the use of tobacco. the aim of the convention, and i quote, is ‘to protect present and future generations from the devastating ... consequences of tobacco consumption (…)’ and to ‘reduce continually and substantially ... tobacco use’. this is at least one of the aims of this directive. just in case we think that we are in the forefront of tobacco control, may i remind you that, while our rate of smokers in the european union is still 28 %, in the united states it is 18 % and in canada is as low as 16 %. they have reached these objectives through picture warnings and also limitations on flavours. so, first, the commission is proposing a large mandatory picture and text warnings covering 75% of the front and the back of cigarette packs and placed on the top of the pack. for those who think that there is no difference between top and bottom, i would like to show you a leaflet which has just been passed to me by the smoke free partnership, where it is evident that, if you put the health warning lower down, then when it is displayed in those shops selling tobacco it will also be covered up and what you will see will be the trade name itself. and why insist on having it down below and not at the top? the only purpose is that someone must have persuaded someone else that it is good for the industry. but is it good for our citizens, for their lives and for their health? i know that some of you feel that 75 % is perhaps a bit too large for a health warning. well it is not as big as in many other countries worldwide which already use larger warnings: just think of mexico and brazil, which use 100 % size warnings on one side of the pack; or uruguay, which uses 80 % warnings on both sides, not to mention australia with 90 % on one side and 75 % on the other. the 75 % which the commission is proposing is only slightly larger than what is already in use in some member states, for instance in belgium, and big enough to be fully visible, effective – and i stress – legally sound. the commission proposal also includes rules on package shape and appearance to ensure that packages display the health warnings properly. secondly, the commission proposes to prohibit tobacco products with characterising flavours. there will no longer be any vanilla, chocolate or menthol flavoured cigarettes and, by the way, the commission did not prohibit additives essential for the production of tobacco products, such as sugar. characterising flavours just serve to make tobacco more palatable, less harsh and more attractive, in particular to young people. do not forget that 90 % of those who smoke start smoking under the age of 25. europe does not need tobacco products targeted at children and new recruits. that is why i believe there is no place for characterising flavours in tobacco products. another much-debated issue has been electronic cigarettes. today an electronic cigarette is less strictly regulated than a shower gel or a bar of soap, despite being a product designed to inhale nicotine and other substances directly into the lungs. in this legislative vacuum, member states are taking different regulatory approaches which will hinder the smooth functioning of the internal market. this is not acceptable. so i await parliament’s position to assess how to make progress on this issue, also in the light of the council position. finally, on illicit trade, i welcome the fact that the proposed measures against illicit products – including a tracking and tracing system and a security feature – have been largely accepted both by parliament’s committee on the environment and by the council. this sends a clear signal that the legislators are determined to take strong and effective action to protect people and the internal market from illicit products. the commission will be examining all the amendments that will be adopted here today very carefully, and will consider what position to take. i count on parliament to successfully pave the way for negotiations to proceed so that we can deliver this important law to our citizens during the current parliamentary mandate. we need to hear the voice of the people who are most affected by tobacco. these are the 700 000 people – which the presidency mentioned – in the eu alone who die prematurely every year as a result of tobacco. that is like the entire population of the city of kraków in poland or palermo in italy being wiped out every single year. these are the families which see their parents or children die of smoking-related diseases. so our decisions today will affect millions of people throughout the european union. we should approve this directive because it is the right thing to do, but it is also what the citizens of the european union are expecting us to do. politicians usually examine polls, because popularity is important in politics. so let me remind parliamentarians that the vast majority of european citizens strongly support the measures we are proposing. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, for instance, 76 % of eu citizens support large mandatory picture warnings, 75 % ask us to take measures against illicit trade, and 63 % want us to prohibit flavours that make tobacco products attractive. i appeal to parliament to give a strong mandate to your rapporteur, linda mcavan, so that trilogues can start as soon as possible. the commission has delivered. the council has delivered. the time has come for parliament to deliver as well. (applause)
rapporteur on the opinion of inta − i am convinced that reducing the number of smokers and rationally restricting the consumption of tobacco products because of their harmful effects is an important objective from the point of view of public health, but i would also like to express the concerns of the committee on international trade regarding the proportionality of the measures presented in the directive, which would have a negative impact on tobacco producers in the european union. any decision on the ingredients of tobacco products should take into account the accompanying socio-economic consequences for the population dependent on tobacco growing, as this contributes to the economic stability of european regions lacking alternatives to production. the standardisation and over-standardisation of packaging is contrary to the fundamental principles of free competition, the free market and the protection of intellectual and industrial property. in addition, i would also like to express my reservations about the wide scope of the envisaged delegated acts, which give the european commission full regulatory powers in almost all areas. finally, i would like to call for economic and social factors to be taken into account, because they are no less important than the health aspects of the proposed legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank linda mcavan and my colleagues for the amazing work accomplished on this file supporting an ambitious line towards effective public health policy. we must recognise that this is not an easy task, especially with all the cynical tobacco industry lobbying going on. public health will continue to be our main guiding principle and the free choice of consumers does not mean supporting anti-public health behaviour or practices. electronic cigarettes, the debate on which unfortunately has been hijacked by the core elements of this directive, should be as available as other tobacco products and they are a healthier alternative to smoking, but this does not justify a lighter regulatory framework for these products or a double standard compared to other nicotine-containing products aimed at quitting tobacco, such as gums and patches. let us not forget that the fight against tobacco is a fight against addiction, not only against one type of product, real or electronic, so let us be consistent and keep in mind our public health objective and not play the devil’s advocate.
in writing ms mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of public health is undoubtedly the most important objective of the proposed directive. however, the question must be asked whether the measures in question are proportionate. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tobacco industry is not left behind. consumers will continue to seek them out, but this time they will be purchased through the black market, where they will be exposed to counterfeit and even more harmful products. the restriction on smoking in public places is a sufficient measure and has already shown its positive result. i hope it continues to operate in bulgaria. i am fully in favour of reducing the attractiveness of cigarette packaging, but not excessive regulation which would infringe other rights enshrined in european law such as trademark rights. in my view, a combined 65% warning is quite sufficient to inform consumers about the dangers of smoking and we need to look for a more balanced approach. the proposed directive would also have a very negative impact on the whole industry, and especially on small and medium-sized enterprises, causing job losses, especially at a time when we are all making huge efforts to tackle unemployment. the time for such radical changes is not now.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the stated aims of the tobacco products directive is to protect young people from touching cigarettes. i believe that stronger warnings on cigarette packs and the removal of some 'flavourings' can play a positive role, and i therefore support increasing the size of these warnings and limiting flavourings in cigarettes. but i don't see how the 'restrictive role' is also assigned to the standardization of the boxes, to the depersonalization of the brand. i fear that this will lead to the use of cheaper and poorer quality tobacco with greater health damage. that is why i do not support measures which may have a negative effect. i also do not support the argument that slim cigarettes can be classified as an attractive tobacco product and therefore banned. removing them would direct smokers of these cigarettes to regular cigarettes, but it would not stop them from smoking. we all have an internal conflict with regard to e-cigarettes, whether to regulate them more strictly, and therefore to make them safer, or to keep them on the market as a nicotine product. however, given the fact that e-cigarettes are safer for health than regular cigarettes, i advocate their continued presence on the market on an equal footing with other cigarettes.
in writing. i voted for this report because it addresses a specific dimension of gender discrimination, one of the most serious, since it results in the loss of life and produces serious and lasting imbalances for society as a whole. it is a balanced report that has been adopted, over and above divisions on ethical issues, to highlight the human rights violation of gendercide. the report also highlights the deep-rooted, cultural and social causes of gendercide, which only confirm the need to fight in a general way against inequalities between men and women, against gender stereotypes. the holistic approach is rightly emphasised. the adoption of this report by the european parliament is a strong and clear signal of the union's commitment to gender equality, both in europe and in the rest of the world, through external action and in particular in development policy. as such, i believe that the adoption of this own-initiative report by the european parliament should also serve as a basis for the development of the post-2015 development objectives.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the debate in which the council is participating this afternoon is only taking place because of the continuing disagreement between parliament and the council on how to handle the budget discharge procedure, as was rightly pointed out by the honourable rapporteur, ms češková. i regret the situation very much. it should have been sorted out long ago. this is the third year in succession in which we find ourselves in this situation. two weeks ago the committee on budgetary control voted yet again against granting the council discharge. i would like to begin by underlining that the annual report of the court of auditors shows that no errors were found in relation to the council’s and european council’s expenditure in section ii of the 2011 eu budget. this discrepancy between the draft report from the committee on budgetary control and the finding of the court of auditors is not easy to understand for anybody outside the eu institutions. i would like to state that as in previous years the council has a sincere wish to find a lasting solution which would be acceptable to both parliament and the council. you are aware that the council has made concrete proposals in the past. these remain on the table. we have even invited parliament in the past to appoint a formal delegation to discuss how we can resolve this issue. so far parliament has chosen not to respond and yet the proposal, let me stress once again, remains on the table. i would like to be very clear that the council does of course not contest that parliament is the discharge authority acting on a recommendation from the council, but it really is clear that the commission is the only legitimate institution to which discharge is granted in relation to the entire eu budget. of course, all relevant information on the financial management of the institutions has to be available for scrutiny. neither council nor parliament can be exempt from this. that is why the council, in its proposal to which i have just referred, considers that there should be a mutual exchange of information between parliament and the council. our view is that any permanent solution must be based on the principles of accountability, transparency and reciprocity and the term ‘reciprocity’ has perhaps been misunderstood by those who are concerned that the council is somehow seeking to deny the institutions their proper roles under the treaty. i can assure you that this is not the case. i would underline that the presidency is ready, in constructive discussions, as soon as parliament is ready, to commit itself seriously to resolving this issue. in this context, i would encourage all members of this parliament to vote on this report in the spirit of cooperation and common sense.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like on behalf of the group of socialists and democrats to support the opinion by mrs češková to refuse to grant discharge to the council. i am very sorry to hear again and again the same position coming from the council. the council is not a unique institution exempt from providing information. i do not want to enter into the legal debate about who should grant discharge to whom. parliament is the only elected institution in the european union. it is about providing information. there is absolutely no reason that the council should not provide information on human resources, on staff, on payment for buildings and on any issues that have to do with taxpayers’ money. there is no excuse and no legal argument to refuse that. i wonder who we are going to impress when, for a third consecutive year, a refusal is made to grant discharge to the council. i see that the council is not changing position. it is a pity for the electorate and the voters that an important institution in the european union is refusing transparency, is refusing to provide information about its administrative costs. that is something which is not bearable. i do not know whether we might address the court in order to ask for this information, or should we rather follow a proposal that came from the irish presidency – and we are waiting for the lithuanian presidency to take this over – to make a working group, but without preconditions, and to decide and agree what information is going to be exchanged. instead of that we hear the same position from the council, which is leading to a refusal to grant discharge. this is a very bad signal for the voters.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, we all agree on the urgent need to tackle the scourge of violence against women. the council of europe and its members have done excellent work in this field. but within the eu, there has also been excellent cooperation between the commission, parliament and the council. we have established the daphne programme, the directive on trafficking, the european protection order and the directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. last year, the council addressed the issue of domestic violence and called for more to be done to support victims and to bring perpetrators to justice. it asked the commission and the member states to consider designating 2015 the european year on zero tolerance for violence against women. it is important to remember that, in this field, the member states are responsible for many of the key policy areas where action needs to be taken. and of course at eu level, the commission has the right of initiative. for too long, violence has remained a hidden phenomenon. but the european institute for gender equality (eige), a body jointly created by the council and parliament, has included ‘violence’ as one of the focus areas in its recently launched gender equality index. i welcome the opportunity this afternoon to respond to the issues raised in your question. allow me to begin by underlining that the adoption of the istanbul convention was a major step forward in our efforts to eradicate all domestic violence, including violence against women. as far as ratification of the convention is concerned, the council has already called upon the member states to ‘[c]onsider signing, ratifying and implementing’ this crucial instrument. to date, 17 member states have already signed it and two have ratified it. as regards the possibility of eu accession to this convention, it would be up to the commission to propose such a step. the council would then examine this in accordance with the treaty rules. on the issue of implementation, the council has already called for action on a number of occasions. last year, the council asked the member states and the commission to develop action plans, programmes and strategies to combat violence against women and girls. the council explicitly called for measures aimed at the prevention and elimination of violence, the provision of protection and support to victims, and the prosecution of perpetrators. the council also called for appropriate and sustainable funding. as for networks, communication and support for member states, the council has repeatedly invited the commission to consider developing a european strategy in this area. here, we must of course respect the commission’s right of initiative, as well as the member states’ competences in key areas, including justice and home affairs. but no one, i believe, questions the value of european cooperation and mutual learning in this difficult field. violence against women has to be tackled. it is a complex and broad-ranging issue. the council has therefore also called on the member states and the commission to strengthen and support multi-agency and multidisciplinary cooperation involving all relevant stakeholders. these include women’s organisations and ngos, which play an important role in combating violence against women and providing services to victims of such violence and their children. the council has also called for the registration and handling of complaints to be improved. here, too, we can benefit from cooperation, mutual learning and shared practices. in addition, the council has stressed the importance of improving the collection and dissemination of data. cooperation in this area is vital. the member states and the commission have the key competences and resources. national and european statistical offices will all have a role to play. so will eige, with its newly launched gender equality index. mr president, domestic violence has no place in a civilised society. to rid europe of this scourge, we need data. we need cooperation. and we need an unflinching political commitment and will. it is pleasing to note that this is an area where the council and parliament share the same values, the same goals. we have long pursued the same goals. let us continue along the same path.
member of the commission. − mr president, violence against women constitutes a violation of human rights and must stop. since 2011 the council of europe convention has set legally binding standards to prevent violence against women and domestic violence in order to protect the victims and punish the perpetrators. the approach taken by this convention is similar to ours. references to the council of europe convention now appear in a growing number of eu instruments and initiatives, including in the recently adopted directive on victim support. this is a first step in its successful promotion. the commission has already stressed in previous debates before this house the importance of the ratification of the convention by all member states. let me assure you that the commission continues to use all relevant opportunities to call on member states to progress with ratification. recent examples include the lunch debate on femicide and gender violence with the g6 ministers of the interior on 12 september in rome, or the meeting of the european network of eu ministers for gender equality organised on 30 september in brussels by the french and belgian ministers for gender equality. eu accession to the convention will be possible only in the areas where the eu has competence. the eu is not competent for provisions of the convention requiring harmonisation of definitions and criminal sanctions relating to the forms of violence. it is up to the member states to implement these specific provisions. so far only two member states – portugal and italy – have ratified the convention, so let us continue encouraging the others to complete their ratification processes. at eu level we address violence against women in a solid and comprehensive framework of concrete actions. we are achieving tangible results and making full use of eu competences to support member states in eliminating all forms of violence against women. we have made significant progress in adopting concrete legislative proposals to support women against violence. we worked well together on the directive for victim support, as well as on a civil and criminal european protection order. it will make a difference on the ground. it is now up to the member states to implement these measures effectively and in a timely manner. the commission is assisting member states in this respect and will monitor the effective implementation of these important tools, which will particularly protect women victims of gender-based violence. the commission is also committed to continuing to support projects at grass roots level to combat violence against women. this is currently done by the daphne iii programme and should continue with the future rights, equality and citizenship programme. in the field of prevention and awareness-raising, the commission launched this year a restricted call for proposals for eur 3.7 million in funding to support member states’ activities. a further eur 11.4 million will be awarded for ngos to put in place actions to be adapted to national contexts, tailored to the specific needs of the targeted groups. improving eu-wide data collection, based on reliable national data on all forms of violence against women, is a must and is still a challenge. this work requires strong involvement and close cooperation with the member states. a systematic registration and common recording of complaints need to be assured. the commission is participating in the work of the fundamental rights agency and the european institute for gender equality to get more reliable eu figures. the commission is actively involved in the campaign to eliminate female genital mutilation. a round table was hosted earlier this year which gave input in a possible initiative. all these measures, be they legislative, awareness-raising campaigns, work on reliable data or support for grass roots projects, complement each other in order to bring about real change on the important matter of violence against women. the commission thanks this house for the support it gives in continuing on this path. i am doing this in the name of vice-president viviane reding who could not be present in this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs angelilli and thank all the members who supported this oral question, because it was high time to put it. i would like to stress three aspects. first of all, ratification confronts us with ourselves, because the question we are asking here is the question of the commitment of the european union and the member states to the defence of women's rights, to the protection of women who are victims of violence. ratification of the istanbul convention should be a mere formality for the member states of the european union, which themselves fully adhere to the principle of equality between men and women. however, gender-based violence is an obstacle to this achievement of gender equality. member states must show that they are prepared to break the taboo on violence against women. how did you do that ? by ratifying the istanbul convention. secondly, ratification makes it possible to tackle forms of violence, for example domestic violence. it's often a hidden dimension. we must show that we are capable of breaking taboos. thirdly, i would like to stress the principle of coherence between the union's internal affairs and our external action. in its external action, the european union puts forward a number of priorities and values, including women's rights and the fight against violence. for reasons of consistency and credibility, the european union and the member states cannot leave the ratification of the istanbul convention any longer in abeyance. this would leave the door open to the criticism of the lecturer that european countries often face. i believe that by supporting this oral question the european parliament is sending a strong message to the commission and the council on the priority of ratification, because after all, it is both a concrete step and a response at the internal level of the european union, but also at the external level in the world, that women expect from us.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as a rapporteur on the legislative initiative report on violence against women and one of the main advocates for the adoption and implementation of the istanbul convention, i am pleased that we are having a discussion on this oral question. violence against women is a violation of human rights and a major impediment to achieving gender equality. it affects women and girls in all parts of the world, irrespective of factors such as age, class or economic background. today’s debate is of great importance in addressing not only the rights and health of eu citizens, but also regarding the values and principles on which the union is based and the actual financial cost of violence to eu economies. the estimated annual cost of violence against women in europe alone is about eur 34 billion. an eu vision is still lacking. we are still waiting for the commission to develop and adopt a comprehensive strategy on violence against women. today in the eu there is still no directive on violence against women. indeed, the european parliament has been insisting for years that the commission propose a directive on combating violence against women. in 2009 we had already called for a directive. in 2010 the international women’s day event in the european parliament was dedicated to it. the svensson report, adopted on 5 april 2011, called for ‘a new comprehensive policy approach against gender-based violence, including a criminal law instrument in the form of a directive against gender-based violence’. in 2012 we once again called for action in the in ’t veld report. we said that there was a need for the commission to present an eu-wide strategy to end violence against women, including a legislative criminal law instrument to combat gender-based violence as requested by parliament in several resolutions. we also called on the commission to establish 2015 as the eu year to end violence against women. since the lisbon treaty, the european parliament can adopt what is known as a legislative initiative report, in which we request the commission to propose a piece of legislation. now the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) has prepared a legislative initiative report on this topic. decisive action is needed in terms of signing and ratifying and, most importantly, implementing, the council of europe convention on violence against women and domestic violence by individual states and on behalf of the union. the istanbul convention is the most far-reaching legal instrument on violence against women and has the potential to effectively prevent and combat violence against women in europe and beyond. the european union should therefore become the leading international actor in preventing gender-based violence and serve as a successful example for those who are legislatively, culturally and politically-speaking fighting violence against women.
mr president, before the commission and council feedback on this debate, i would like to thank the presidency, on behalf of all of us sitting here, for scheduling – at least once in this parliamentary term – a debate on violence against women for before midnight.
member of the commission. − mr president, just two years ago, the european commission responded to an oral question on eu-taiwan relations. although much of what was said then remains valid today, taiwan has gone down in the ranking of our largest trading partners: from 15th in 2011 to 23rd today. however, the eu remains the largest foreign investor in taiwan. if you look at the figures for the past twenty years, the eu-taiwan trade relationship has followed an upward trend that is similar to us-taiwan or japan-taiwan relations, despite a more recent decline due to the financial and economic crisis since 2008. the eu and taiwan already enjoy comprehensive dialogue. senior officials meet at least once a year, sometimes more, while frequent expert meetings cover a wide range of issues including sanitary and phytosanitary matters, technical barriers to trade, intellectual property rights and geographical indications, public procurement, customs matters, information and communications technology and pharmaceutical issues. our dialogue focuses in particular on non-tariff barriers – a key component of any trade relationship nowadays – and is delivering results on both sides. the mutual understanding we build in these meetings, and the concrete solutions we find to issues that would otherwise become barriers to trade and investment, help to create a stable trade and investment environment that is protective of intellectual property and conducive to better trade and investment flows. this commission has been engaging actively with asia, with the support of this parliament. we have negotiated, or are negotiating, free trade agreements with south korea, singapore, malaysia, thailand, vietnam, and japan. in addition, we are getting ready to start investment negotiations with mainland china, which we have just discussed in plenary. we have to focus on our current trade agenda first. the time will come later on to assess possible ways to improve our trade relations with taiwan, provided that a shared level of ambition can be found. an investment agreement that fully covers market access could be worth exploring in due course.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would not like to repeat the figures already quoted on the particular situation of our trade relations with taiwan. it is clear that these trade relations are below their potential, despite the existing opportunities for further deepening. the already well-integrated economic relations between the european union and taiwan need to be extended. with the development of industry and information technology, as well as green energy - sectors with high added value and a source of growth in both the eu and taiwan - new jobs will also be created. the constructive approach taken by taiwan has led to the conclusion of 31 bilateral investment agreements with third countries such as japan, new zealand, including china. these agreements demonstrate taiwan's determination to liberalise its trade and are evidence that the country is willing to seek similar deals with other partners, citing the multilateral trading system established by the world trade organisation. i am convinced that a future trade agreement could increase european union exports to taiwan to 12 billion euros per year. i therefore call on the commission to be creative and to seize the opportunity to find a basis for raising the level of our trade and economic relations with china, by resorting to an agreement on investment protection and market access. the commission should not downplay the mutual benefits of a future agreement with taiwan and taiwan should not be a permanent hostage to its delicate international position vis-à-vis mainland china. i am convinced that this will also be a strong signal of the consistency of the european union's support for the development of democracy and social pluralism in a country like taiwan.
madam president, commissioner, in view of the intensification of trade relations between the european union and taiwan in recent decades, it seems appropriate that the union should respond positively to the willingness of this asian country to open negotiations for a trade agreement. this future agreement would allow for the consolidation of european support for the democratic institutions of south korea, following the example of other agreements with other countries in the region, such as south korea, and for the deepening of a mutually beneficial relationship for both economies, especially in terms of investment protection and market access. in this sense, a greater boost to trade in the ict industry could represent an important source of growth for our economies, all of this, of course, by ensuring trade practices in line with the rules of the multilateral system and by establishing binding clauses in such sensitive areas as social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility.
question no 7 by mr pimenta (h-0026/97) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo as an expert on china, what do you think china's reaction would be if the european union really found the most appropriate solution to raise the level of our trade relations? should we fear the reaction of mainland china?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the key word in this room today is 'solidarity'. the humanitarian tragedy of the syrian refugees has put european solidarity to a severe test. first, as has been said, solidarity with regard to the willingness to accept refugees from all eu member states, not just those under direct pressure to emigrate. under the current dublin 1, 2 and 3 framework, only the countries from which asylum is sought are expected to take care of refugees. we changed the legislation after long negotiations, but nothing has changed in practice. at this stage, only through bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries can these refugees be partially relocated. however, the integration capacity of countries varies. for countries like bulgaria, it is particularly low. this poses a serious risk of radicalization of society and calls for even closing borders. secondly, solidarity in providing funds to countries that are most affected by the refugee pressure. these funds are needed not only to build new refugee centres, but also to provide a whole system of national instruments to protect the border and keep refugees close to their homes. according to frontex, the most important land border in the european union is currently the bulgarian-turkish border. bulgaria's declared willingness to join schengen has made it an attractive destination for refugees, but at the same time the failure to achieve this goal is the reason why they remain permanently on our territory. this poses potential risks to our national security. today, it is important to know what signal the european parliament will send. europe must be united in taking responsibility.
madam speaker, the subject of this debate is "refugee policy". colleagues, did you hear any mention of any measures here in this room? i didn't hear any specific measures mentioned. and don't forget that while we're here talking common language, hundreds of refugees are crossing the european union border between bulgaria and turkey. you can't even break your tongue to mention that bulgaria is the country in the european union that has taken in the most refugees ever, and the pressure is increasing every day. if you have forgotten, colleagues, i will remind you that bulgaria was the last member state of the european union to become the object and target of islamic terrorism. there was an attack in bulgaria. and this problem should not be left out either. while you are preparing conferences to speak at in the future, in a conditional slant, 600 euros is the cost of living for 1 refugee in bulgaria, 80 euros is the pension, 300 euros is the average salary. it's not helping, the tension is building and i don't want to get to a minute of silence here again on this occasion.
member of the commission. - madam president, i thank each and every one of you for your questions, your speeches and your proposals, with the seriousness which is obviously necessary in such a debate. i would like to add a few comments or replies to what i have said earlier in response to this call for a european conference on humanitarian action and refugees, and to mark the commission's agreement. firstly, mr weber and mrs sargentini have just referred to the figures. i can quote those from the most competent international institution, the united nations high commissioner for refugees, and repeat that this is a request to the european countries collectively for 2 000 resettlements and 10 000 applications for admission. it is to this request, to these figures, that several countries, whom i have mentioned to thank them, have responded positively. we are calling on the other european countries, which have not yet done so, to respond to this request as well. these are the figures as they come from the institution which is, on the ground, the most efficient and most appropriate for measuring needs. in addition to this, there is the point raised earlier by mr lópez aguilar concerning humanitarian visas. we have called for the most open and generous use of this possibility offered by the so-called humanitarian visas. but i would remind mr lópez aguilar that this is a sovereign decision of each member state, which has the right to decide whether or not to use such a humanitarian visa. this is a sensitive subject. that is also why i think the idea of this conference on humanitarian action and refugees would be useful. these sensitive issues should no longer be just, as is the sovereign rule of each state, the affair of each country, with a political debate in each country that is extremely difficult - we can see it clearly, at the moment, with the rise of all the calls for national withdrawal and populism. i believe that, politically, there would also be an interest, beyond humanitarian action, in sharing this debate, in talking about it together, in exchanging good practice. i believe that issues like these would be less difficult to deal with if we dealt with them together, rather than each one in his own home and each one for himself. mr engel and mrs neynsky have just mentioned the special case of countries - i said they are in the front line - such as cyprus, greece, italy, of course, but also bulgaria. we have deployed special missions - i said that - including last week to assess with these countries on the ground the additional technical and financial needs they might need. this is particularly true of a point raised by mrs giannakou and mr salavrakos concerning greece, concerning the asylum system which greece must build or consolidate and for which it must, perhaps going further, receive technical, in particular, and financial assistance from the other european countries. mrs guillaume mentioned the need for more money. i said it myself, congresswoman. as far as echo is concerned, the truth leads me to say, on behalf of the commissioner responsible for this matter, that there is no more money available for 2013. there's no more money available: so we have reached the limits of what can be considered possible in 2013. for what will be possible and necessary in 2014, we will have to find more resources within the framework of the budgetary constraints that you know better than anyone else - but i know them too. that is why i repeat that i think this conference, which you have suggested, is important. in conclusion, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, i would like to echo what mrs de keyser said earlier. i thanked the mayor of lampedusa and the people of this island who are facing the problems with great dignity and solidarity. they're not the only ones. many people are doing great work behind the scenes, discreetly and with great courage. you have done well, madam member, in saying what officials of the european union are doing, what officials of the united nations are doing in beirut, in damascus, and what ngos are doing - i have quoted ngos. why did i pay any attention to what you said? that is because i myself have indicated that of the two billion euros of humanitarian aid that we have already deployed on the ground in the region syria and around syria , 44 percent of the aid goes to syria. how is it deployed? by ngos, by administrations that are still here. but the work of all these people must be emphasized because their lives are often threatened as well. i would like to conclude by recalling that there are many reasons for facing such a tragedy - not only from syria but, today, mainly from this country - to face it together. the answer cannot be - i repeat - a 'every man for himself' or 'every man for himself'. the answer must be european because the problem is at least european. there are therefore reasons for bringing together all these dimensions and all the tools at our disposal - i mentioned them earlier - humanitarian action, support for countries on the front line, the sharing of civil protection resources, the fight against traffickers and terrorism, development aid, and other issues, such as, of course, and in the first place, the question of the reception and reception conditions of refugees - and to put them at the right level, which must be that of european leaders. there is also a political dimension behind all this, which is extremely serious in the debate in each of our countries. i think that, again - i said it again - it would be better to have a european political debate on this issue rather than separate, juxtaposed and sometimes competing debates. in any case, i thank you very much for this debate and for this proposal.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful for the exchange of views we were able to have today. the eu and its member states are doing much in the given circumstances to alleviate the suffering facing the refugees from syria, but of course we should not and cannot be complacent, because more than 2.1 million syrians have already gone through the traumatic experience of becoming a refugee. yet another 1.4 million people are predicted to flee the country by the end of the year and we do not know how many will follow in 2014. the best way of preventing the suffering of those people would be to help address the reasons why they are fleeing the country. the best solution, of course, would be a lasting peace deal. let me say at this point that the lithuanian presidency, from the very start, from day one of our presidency, has been very actively engaged with the issue of the syrian crisis and the joint vilnius statement that was adopted last month at the gymnich meeting was a good example of a common european action seeking a lasting solution. the lithuanian presidency continues in active cooperation with the vice-president/high representative of the commission and the eeas and other stakeholders to bring back peace and stability to syria and the whole region. failing that, as the fighting goes on, we must use all channels at our disposal and make sure that international humanitarian law is respected and the civilians are protected. there must be zero tolerance regarding the killing, maiming, abduction and recruitment to armed groups of children, and zero tolerance regarding sexual and gender-based violence, whose most frequent and most vulnerable victims are of course women and children. all parties must ensure the safety and protection of all humanitarian workers and medical personnel. they should facilitate free passage of medical supplies to all areas and safeguard all health facilities and ambulances. syria should provide the necessary authorisation to scale up humanitarian operations within the country, while all parties must facilitate unimpeded access by humanitarian workers to people in need throughout syria, through all possible channels, including cross-border assistance, as required by operational necessity. on the eu side, we need to support and reinforce unhcr’s central role in coordinating humanitarian assistance in order to strengthen efforts and ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of aid. this is key, given the urgency of the situation and the severe financial constraints. if we can achieve at least these objectives, it is my sincere hope that we will see refugee numbers rise more slowly than predicted and hopefully they might even start to decrease again at some point in the not too distant future. concerning the very concrete proposal by mr verhofstadt for a humanitarian conference as was set out in parliament’s resolution, i certainly welcome the proposal. furthermore, i welcome the positive response given by commissioner barnier. the presidency is ready to work closely on this issue with the commission, which has the main responsibility for this issue. but a conference is not enough. the eu must keep russia and other global players involved on the syrian issue. they should also share the responsibility in solving urgent humanitarian problems in syria. let me use this opportunity to express my gratitude to mr lópez aguilar and to the whole european parliament for your very much needed and timely resolution. i believe that with our joint efforts and a common stance we will be able to help the syrian people with a timely action bringing long-term solutions.
in writing madam president, commissioner, apart from the 2 million syrian refugees and the 4.5 million syrians who have fled their homes, the potential refugees are much more. the pace of the increase in the number of refugees is particularly disturbing. between 60 and 100 new refugees enter bulgaria every day. my country is already exceeding its capacity to take in refugees, which is over 5,000 people, but there is a danger that this number will double by the end of the year. this situation requires common european action. i fully support the initiative to hold an international conference on refugees, with the eu not only forming a common position that distributes the burdens fairly, but also seeking cooperation with the other international actors. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to two important initiatives. first, the european council and parliament are to adopt the traditional end-of-year decision on the reallocation of funds from the budget. the amount this year exceeds 500 million euros. a significant part of this should go to boosting humanitarian aid to syria's neighbouring countries that host refugees close to the border. that's why commissioner georgieva is insisting. secondly, the eu should put the issue of signing the readmission agreement to turkey much more forcefully. it must become a priority of bilateral relations.
in writing one of the european countries that is taking on a significant burden of the syrian refugee flow is bulgaria. in this context, i would note that bulgaria ensures the security and protection of the eu's external borders, a fact repeatedly confirmed by the reports of the european commission and parliament on its accession to schengen. with effective border controls, assistance to refugees, and not allowing our country to become a transit target to central and western europe, i believe we are adding geopolitical value to security in the region. given that bulgaria has fulfilled all the technical requirements since 2011, the refugee crisis further strengthens the case for its accession to schengen. being outside the schengen area, our country will have an increasingly difficult time dealing with uncontrolled migration, due to the lack of sufficient resources and access to them at eu level. our refugee capacity is 2,500 people, but it's doubled and is expected to reach 11,000 by the end of the year. the balance between the humanitarian objective of maximum integration of refugees and the guarantee of european security is possible only through a collective response. this is a european problem and requires eu expertise and financial support, making the most of the dedicated funds beyond 2014.
in writing - mr mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in voting on the amendments to the environmental impact assessment directive for specific public and private projects, my group lost some key votes. perhaps my 'abstention' from including shale gas and coal gas exploration in the mandatory eia activities contributed to this. because it's clear that these studies should be done to know what we have and whether there's a commercial extraction that we can rely on to solve our energy problems. therefore, studies should not be burdened with too many preliminary assessments and authorisations, especially at a time when europe has not accumulated enough of its own representative data for a reliable assessment. however, the vote showed that the majority in parliament is in favour of strict risk controls at all stages of shale gas operations, despite the burdens and delays in the implementation of such projects and the associated cost increases and fewer jobs in the current economic crisis. the conclusion for all of us is that shale gas in the eu is too complex a problem and all the risks associated with it need to be adequately addressed, regardless of the considerations of less energy independence, lower energy prices and economic competitiveness.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal because i am firmly convinced that professional mobility within the community is one of the fundamental rights of the european union, which must be guaranteed and facilitated to the maximum extent by the european institutions. the introduction of the european professional card is a step in the right direction and can play a key role in encouraging citizens from bulgaria and other member states to practise their profession anywhere within the eu. such a mechanism is particularly important in times of economic crisis and given the increasing need for skilled personnel in a number of professional fields. the european professional card will make it possible to carry out a large number of procedures electronically, which will lead to shorter deadlines and less administrative burdens. the proposed texts also offer the necessary balanced approach in this area by introducing requirements for the knowledge of the relevant foreign language, which is of particular importance in the exercise of certain professions, especially in the field of medicine. the protection of european citizens will also be further ensured by the introduction of an alert system which obliges each eu country to inform the other member states of the misconduct of health professionals who have been found guilty of misconduct or have been subject to disciplinary action in their own country.
mr. chairman, i voted for the resolution because i think it's an important step in our participation in solving the refugee problem. we regret to adopt the resolution following the tragedy at lampedusa. i hope this makes everyone more responsible, even those who doubted that the refugee problem was a european problem. the crisis in syria is yet to test european solidarity and, in particular, existing support mechanisms and legislation. efforts are focused on ending the conflict, supporting the neighboring countries that are taking in the most refugees. but now it is important to address both the humanitarian and the political dimensions of the refugee flow. the crisis will end, but syria will be a ruined country and refugees will not be able to return there safely. this requires long-term measures at community level and solidarity between the parties. most countries do not have the capacity and do not have the serious financial means to accommodate the refugee flow, including bulgaria. bulgaria has experienced many waves of refugees and is currently doing its best to help resolve the problem. we must be careful and adopt these measures to ensure the safety and security of our borders.
mr president, i voted against this resolution not because i deny that there is a problem, but for the opposite reason - because the problem is actually much bigger than what is described in this resolution. the resolution we voted today is completely inadequate, mainly because it does not say a word about the country that is suffering the worst consequences of the refugee flow - my country, bulgaria, where hundreds of refugees continue to pour in every day. it says for sweden and germany how many applications were submitted there. excuse me, but have you forgotten that bulgaria is the poorest country in the entire european union? it's one thing to have refugees in other big member states or rich member states, it's another to have them come to bulgaria. and that tension continues. i am outraged by the way bulgaria has been turned away and i want to remind you that you have forgotten very quickly what happens when you turn your back on the balkans. don't do that again.
in writing. − the situation in syria is undoubtedly one of the most serious international humanitarian crises, and a long-term political solution is a priority. however, the lack of prospects for a quick exit from the crisis requires a review of the measures taken by the european union and the member states to deal with the resulting consequences. that is why i supported the proposed text of the resolution. the facts which have been set out in this chamber today by the representatives of the council and the commission clearly indicate that the countries of the european union should take all possible steps to deal with the growing flow of refugees. of course, the countries most affected are those neighbouring syria, which account for more than half of the humanitarian aid allocated by the union and the member states. we must not forget, however, that the flow of refugees to the countries on the external borders of the union, including bulgaria (and this was mentioned in commissioner barnier's speech), is increasing every day. i welcome the call for a more holistic approach and more solidarity between member states in view of the realities of the refugee pressure. only in this way will it be possible to ensure the optimal use of funds and the application of best practices. the full range of union instruments available should be used to this end.
question by raising a blue card mr president, it is clear that most of you colleagues have never seen another roma in your life except the much-respected mrs jaroka and i think that makes you a little incompetent at the moment to debate this issue. but specifically to mrs. flotter: you, mrs. floater, said that you had to do on-site inspections. you know, there was a deputy from your green group - els de groen - she did such an inspection in bulgaria and during the walk in the gypsy neighborhood her purse was stolen. what do you think about that?
mr president, since i can see that the commissioner is reluctant to name the originators of this debate, i will do it for her. what happened, ladies and gentlemen on the left of the room, especially the french among you? you have a problem, right? but when we've spent years telling you that this problem isn't as simple as you think, you've looked down on us and pointed out to us in anger that we should make more effort. you're the experts on integration! integrate the gypsies into your countries! no, instead you chose the easy way out. you chose the path of deportation. do you remember who was deporting people to europe? you know very well, i don't need to name him. so please, in the future, listen to what you're told, because it turns out that the things that are said are smart, and they're not -- as you think in your complex mind -- something different.
mr president, i think that those of us who live in some of the five countries with the highest roma concentration, namely bulgaria, romania, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary, should be heard more often, and that in a calm and non-judgmental manner. by the way, the colleague who said that roma have been persecuted for centuries is only partially right. apparently, the roma were less persecuted in these countries, so they still prefer to live there today. but we are unanimous in saying that we have a growing problem - despite the programmes adopted, despite the funds allocated and despite the efforts that are systematic and ongoing. i'm going to try to give a very modest, very partial answer as to why that is. i think we should look for answers to other, new questions from now on and not bother to discuss the most delicate of them. for example: the demographic growth of roma communities is it a problem, can it be regulated? how can we change their attitudes towards education? ; the role of roma leaders, how to increase the responsibility of roma leaders? ; the border between integration and assimilation what is the output of this thin border between integration and assimilation?
in writing. we have to comment once again on the issue of roma integration, despite the existence of an eu strategy, the decade of roma inclusion and the various discussions on this topic. the reason is the warnings to return the roma of bulgaria and romania, who have allowed themselves to go to other european countries to seek other living conditions. they have a right to do so as full european citizens. the task and effort of integrating into society is therefore common to all member states and the responsibility of all european citizens. each of the member states with a more compact roma population is experiencing problems. but just as the countries of their national citizenship have no right to renounce them, so the countries in which they move as free citizens have no right to deny them that right. instead of threats by some european ministers and public figures to return the roma to where they came from because they are not integrating, it is time to show european solidarity and achieve this integration together, starting with children and their education, through specific measures for young people and finally support for the elderly, under the existing rules. double standards on any of the eu's problems are incompatible with european values.
madam president, many questions have come up in this debate, many times i have even changed the subject of what i wanted to say, but this is simply absurd. mr. murphy, the representatives of the ira, of shin fein, were sitting there in your part of the room, if you want examples of left-wing extremism in europe. let's keep in mind that every single terrorist movement in the second half of the 20th century in europe had an anarchist-humanist vision behind it. but there's something else, there's something more important, because blaming each other solves absolutely no problem. i want to join in with what many other colleagues have said from many different groups - which was very interesting to me - that you should bear in mind that as long as you don't allow people to talk about the problems they really have, that as long as you tighten your grip around them and explain to them that there is only one way forward for a federal europe, the more people you will bring into the field of extremism. you can't imagine the comments i get from my constituents on facebook, and even i can't explain how to curb these processes. and i blame you for that.
question asked by raising a blue card what you say, mrs. harms, is of course very disturbing. i'd like to ask you the following two questions: are you trying to tell us that we actually have a moral obligation to take in absolutely all the people who have a problem in the world, to take in all those 50 million who are currently in refugee camps in europe, and if the answer to that question is "yes", do you think that's actually realistic and possible?
commissioner, because you said it's virtually impossible to enter europe legally right now, and if you don't know why, i'll explain. it is because our house here in europe, which our peoples have built by putting in enormous effort to overcome conflicts and problems over many decades, and thanks to all of that effort we have put in place, is now splashing at the seams. it's completely overcrowded. and you have now given living proof of what i said in the previous debate on extremism. how do you expect our young people not to become radicalized and extreme when they live with the feeling that they are just being talked about? we did 20 debates on youth unemployment. how do you say, mr. watson, that we need immigrants? over 20% average youth unemployment in the european union, while at the same time everything possible is being done for those 'outsiders' who are not citizens of the union. that's how people get radicalized in europe.
question asked by raising a blue card i have a question for mr. diaz de mera. how did we know, mr. diaz de mera, that there was no breach of the swift agreement? because the commissioner had spoken to an american official and he had assured her that it had not been violated. what did you expect? he's going to come out and confess and say, "well, yes, we broke the agreement. we are guilty. - you did?
madam president, in the light of right-wing extremism, i think we all understand that there is not much to look for in europe. we only have to look at the other side of the ocean, where for 10 years a gestapo system has been operating to monitor citizens. when this system is applied to american citizens, that's not a problem for me, because in the end it's imposed by their democratically elected government, but when these gestapo methods are directed against european citizens, that's no longer acceptable. i was born and lived for a time in a totalitarian state. in this totalitarian state, there was a lot of security, but very little freedom. there was almost no crime. and i can most responsibly tell you that i don't need any security - give me my freedom. therefore, the swift agreement should be terminated.
rapporteur. − mr president, after long negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission, we finally agreed on an ambitious but realistic compromise on the batteries directive regarding batteries and accumulators containing cadmium intended for use in cordless power tools. i would like to underline two very important things in relation to the final agreement that was reached. at the trialogue negotiations we agreed on a line acceptable for all, a compromise for the exemption for cadmium-containing batteries in cordless power tools to expire on 31 december 2016. i am confident that the measures in this first-reading agreement on which the european parliament will vote today will improve the current legislation by closing any possible gaps in the directive. the goal of these provisions is to enable a less costly transition for all in the value chain and to ensure the protection of the environment and human health. i believe that the final agreement that we reach is sending a strong and clear message to everyone about the cadmium ban. the second very important aspect of the european parliament proposal was the introduction of mercury into the current debate on batteries, regarding button cell batteries containing mercury. i am happy that my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety welcomed my proposal and fully supported it. mercury-containing button cell batteries would be banned from the market from the autumn of 2015. this is a great step which will prevent about five tonnes of mercury per year from escaping into the environment in the european union. in conclusion, i believe that we managed to reach a very ambitious and positive agreement on the batteries directive. this change will push europe to innovate in the field of modern technologies, materials and recycling. it will give a strong positive signal regarding cadmium and mercury, and will eliminate these toxic metals from the environment. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs without whose great work this job would never have been done: zofija mazej kukovič, carl schlyter, dan jørgensen, miroslav ouzký and jiří maštálka. i thank them for the fruitful cooperation that we had. i ask all colleagues to support the agreement which was reached between parliament, the council and the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, you are invited to approve an update of the eu directives on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators. the revised legislation should contribute to better protection of the environment and human health by clarifying some key provisions in a directive which will also help to improve enforcement. as ms mcguinness said, this is good for the health of citizens, it is good for the environment, and i think that it gives the necessary clarity to entrepreneurs and businesses. i would like to thank you for giving the proposed directive your support. to respond to mr schlyter’s question, i would like to reassure him that the commission is working on this issue and that we face technical difficulties with uniform labelling, especially for non-rechargeable batteries. we are working very closely with various standardisation organisations including the european standardisation organisation, which is also helping us to find the most appropriate way forward. so far, it seems that the best way to proceed would be to take a case-by-case approach to labelling, but we are working on it and will keep you informed of the progress in the area.
the rapporteur. - since i'm excited, i'll speak in my native bulgarian. this directive and the statements made in it demonstrate the very happy fact that at certain moments we can all come together and adopt common solutions that are beneficial for the whole of europe. for almost ten years this directive has not been adopted for various reasons and now we have found the compromise balance between all the political forces in the european parliament, the european commission and the council. there is a solution that will be good for the environment and good for people, and it will enable poorer countries in this really difficult social period to get the supply they need to buy these batteries. i am confident that this directive will serve as the basis for a very big technological and social leap for europe. of course, without the enormous work - and i would like to thank mrs kukovich, mr schlueter and the other shadow rapporteurs - we would not have been able to reach this agreement. this is a unique achievement for all of us.
in writing − i voted in favour of this report because it is a step forward towards a better functioning of the committee on petitions and its consolidation as one of the main institutional instruments for the development of democratic principles and the enhanced participation of citizens in the eu decision-making process. 2012 was also a particularly important year, as the commission put a lot of effort into discussing the importance of european citizenship and the rights it gives. as a result, we were able to highlight our common european values and principles and to look for ways to remove obstacles for eu citizens, as well as concrete ideas for bringing them closer to the european institutions. i welcome the attention the report gives to the european citizens' initiative. it is very important to see whether this powerful tool that we have put in the hands of european citizens to bring them closer to eu decision-making is finally working. i therefore thank my colleagues for agreeing with me on the need for a regular review of the state of play of european citizens' initiatives, in order to improve the procedure and to allow effective solutions to the accompanying obstacles to be found as quickly as possible at each stage of the procedure. as a shadow rapporteur on the file in the committee on petitions, i am pleased that it has an important role as a legislative committee responsible for organising public hearings to develop successful initiatives, and i am convinced that this report is a step in the right direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, allow me to make one point very clear from the outset: the development of our trade relations with our eastern partners is not promoted to the detriment of any other country. these deep and comprehensive free trade areas, which are at the heart of our association agreements, will help bring down trade barriers and promote regulatory convergence. this is not to the detriment of economic operators in russia or elsewhere. indeed, russia also stands to gain from the integration of its traditional trading partners into the wider european economy. our agreement with ukraine will mutually open our markets for goods and services. it will be a catalyst for political, economic and social reforms and modernisation and will contribute to economic growth. the commission clearly considers the artificial trade obstacles and cumbersome customs procedures recently adopted by russia towards ukraine as unacceptable. they constitute undue pressure of dubious wto compatibility. given the current advanced stage of the process related to the association agreement, the best support we could bring would be by implementing it speedily once it is signed. the eu has repeatedly confirmed its firm commitment to the signing of the association agreement with ukraine, possibly at the time of the eastern partnership summit in november, provided there is determined action and tangible progress by ukraine on the benchmarks set by the foreign affairs council in december 2012. the foreign affairs council debated this issue again today and reinforced the benchmarks. in addition, the commission has repeatedly called on ukraine to do its utmost to solve current trade issues with the european union. our assistance to ukraine has accompanied the preparation of the agreement and will contribute to the shared goal of its implementation. for example, eur 40 million from the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is specifically earmarked for institutional reforms linked to the implementation of new agreements with the eu, the so-called comprehensive institution building programme. as regards our agreements with georgia and moldova, the commission will put all its efforts, including legal revision, into enabling their signature before the end of this commission’s term. once signed, we will propose that the agreements with georgia and moldova be provisionally applied. to help the implementation of these agreements, we also set transition periods for the approximation of legislation by the partner countries, coupled with technical and financial assistance to support capacity-building and infrastructure. support for the implementation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas will remain a core objective under the new european neighbourhood instrument. as regards armenia, we are in a difficult situation now. joining the customs union with russia is incompatible with the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area with the european union. in spite of this, we remain committed to continue deepening relations with armenia, and we are pursuing our internal reflection and consultations with armenia on the best practical way forward. however, it should be clear that enhanced cooperation will be possible only in areas which do not contravene armenia’s new commitments resulting from its intended membership of the customs union. now that it has made a choice between the customs union and the deep and comprehensive free trade area with the european union, the onus is on armenia itself to propose a new way forward with the european union. finally, let me also say a word on azerbaijan and belarus. the eu is currently negotiating an association agreement with azerbaijan. however, unlike georgia or moldova, azerbaijan is not yet a member of the world trade organisation. hence the trade chapter of the association agreement would be limited to an upgrade of the trade chapter of the existing partnership and cooperation agreement, in order to ensure that fundamental wto rules and principles apply in our bilateral trade relations. contrary to the association agreements with georgia, moldova or ukraine, this will not lead to the introduction of any preferential trade treatment, be it in the form of lower tariffs or otherwise, for azerbaijan. belarus is not yet a member of the world trade organisation. its accession process has just resumed after a long pause, and it will not be an easy one, since important economic reforms are still pending. moreover, belarus is in a customs union with russia and another aspiring wto member, kazakhstan. we will support this process, but it will require constructive cooperation by all the members of the customs union. the eu is working hard on developing its trade relations as part of an overall strategy towards its eastern partnership and neighbours. this is being done in a very complex political environment, which, as we have seen in the last few weeks, is rapidly evolving. but our objective is clear: solidly anchoring our eastern neighbours to the european union, through shared political values and deep economic integration.
on behalf of the alde group. following the collapse of the soviet union, events in the countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus have had a direct impact on the european union. i am therefore convinced that we have a strong interest in strengthening our relations with the countries of the region in view of the union's role as a global political and economic player. although the path towards convergence with the european union has proved to be a successful strategy, each country is pursuing political and economic reforms to varying degrees. some of the leaders in the region are still tempted to follow alternative development models that are not compatible with the principles of liberal democracy. i therefore believe that the european union's policy towards its eastern neighbours must be strong, active and unambiguous, providing concrete, comprehensive support for democratic and market-oriented reforms in these countries and thus contributing to the political and economic stability of the region. the union's growing influence on the eastern partnership countries will be concretised by the decisions of the upcoming vilnius summit in november 2013, where the association agreement with ukraine is expected to be signed, the establishment of a comprehensive and deep free trade area with ukraine and the initialisation of the association agreements with georgia and moldova. provided that the ukrainian authorities make tangible progress on the political indicators, i am convinced that the vilnius meeting would become a cornerstone in the european union's relations with that country. ukraine should do everything possible and urgently to improve the deteriorating business climate in the country. but we must not forget that the association agreement will not be signed unless an effective solution to the tymoshenko case is found. the liberals are pushing for a workable compromise on this case. it would be extremely wrong to assume that in light of the ongoing pressure on ukraine to join the customs union with the cis countries applied by russia, geopolitical interests will prevail in the decision-making process, ignoring the issue of electoral justice. i am convinced that a key factor in this regard will be the forthcoming opinion of the european parliament on the future association agreement, which should be presented before the end of the current legislative term, which seems for the moment entirely possible. i call on the commission to substantially reconsider its position on armenia in the context of that country's decision to join the russian-dominated customs union. the european commission must not encourage the liberalisation of trade and economic relations which are incompatible with the principles of an association treaty. as regards azerbaijan, i believe that negotiations on a non-preferential trade and investment agreement should be accelerated in support of that country's membership of the world trade organisation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, illegal trade practices in drug precursors must never be underestimated. they damage the health and ruin the lives of individuals. the costs to society are enormous. tackling drug trafficking is a challenge both worldwide and at the local community level, because it is a complex problem that requires integrated solutions, a new codecision procedure and coordinated delivery of services involving education, health, social care and economic policy. it is clear that we need to stem the flow of dangerous medicinal products containing substances that can be used for manufacturing drugs, as it is becoming increasingly evident that traffickers are using those licit channels as a source and are smuggling large quantities of chemicals for the illicit manufacture of drugs. the liberals are concerned that, despite the efforts made by the commission, trafficking in substances used as precursors in the manufacture of narcotic drugs continues to be a problem that the eu must deal with as a matter of priority. addressing these medicinal products where law enforcement and regulatory capacity is limited requires not only the political will and recognition that precursors control is a shared responsibility, but also a long-term commitment to eliminating or significantly reducing the diversion of precursors. given the rapidly changing methods employed by organised criminal groups to divert such substances from licit trade channels, the eu should start acting as of today, before the drug makers find another way. therefore, current ways of dealing with this problem – such as adding medicinal products to the regulation – are not a forward-looking approach. the commission should also include these products in the definitions of scheduled substances. by doing so, the eu will gain a more vigilant approach towards those that can be used as dangerous drug precursors. i also would like to emphasise the importance of further strengthening existing european cooperation mechanisms for the control of substances used in illicit drug manufacture. in this respect, a european database for registered operators holding a licence of registration for the legal trade in drug precursors and medicinal products should be regularly updated, and the information provided should be used by the commission and by the member states’ competent authorities for the purpose of preventing the diversion of those products onto the illegal market. as a result of this, information provided in a timely manner on the identification of any new substances replacing precursors commonly used in the manufacture of illicit drugs and on the manufacture of such new substances will help the eu to counter the diversion of, and trafficking in, such substances.
the hopes for a democratic bulgaria have evaporated. the political monopoly has only changed the names in the administration, it's just that gerb and bsp are the same thing. people are out on the streets, and i'm back here in front of you. the mistakes of rulers are not frightening, they are disastrous. censorship in the state media, absurd electoral code, unfair judicial system, poverty - all the same. the nfsb alliance is as much in the state media as the number of government measures to deal with refugees is zero. but here's the problem: the official of the european institutions cut my interview short, choosing only phrases that were convenient for the suggestions they wanted to make. this is not the european voice. i ask the judiciary, the government, the sem, the european commission to remain silent. and the problems are screaming. today i am not asking, but warning: if europe does not deal with the problems of its member states, if it does not stop acting hypocritically, running away from problems, then it will face its greatest fear: the rise of euroscepticism.
the most important external border for europe is the land border between bulgaria and turkey this is what frontex's special statement said, made a few days ago in the context of the deepening crisis with refugees coming from syria. the situation requires an immediate summit conference involving all the european institutions. not only is a full analysis needed, but firm action and clear responsibilities, including from all member states. the issue must be brought up urgently at the next summit. we like to talk about solidarity, but it cannot be obligatory only for bulgaria, greece, malta and cyprus. lampedusa's dark glory will be followed by other european cities. are we going to make resolutions every time, and are they enough? illegal traffic is increasing. the early warning system obviously didn't work. we are facing a humanitarian crisis, xenophobia is on the rise. in bulgaria, there are now about 7,000 refugees. more are expected, and this is on the eve of the winter months. this crisis cannot be solved by mattresses, blankets or alms.
i would like to draw attention to a matter of particular importance to the european union, which concerns the crossborder transmission of animal diseases. in accordance with directive 85/2003, when an outbreak is detected, sick and infected animals are killed. and the animals that come in contact with them die with them. the compensation paid to the farmers does not cover the losses. in bulgaria, in the southeastern plain region, such events are a frequent occurrence due to its border nature and the passage of infected animals from turkey. in the territory of malko tarnovo municipality in the last two years hundreds of animals have died. the killing of animals and low compensation practically lead to the elimination of livestock the main livelihood of the population. the bulgarian authorities are implementing the directive not applying vaccination, which is banned in the european union. i think it is imperative to have a discussion and consultation with the european commission, to develop a clear joint strategy to limit the economic damage to the livestock farmers in the area. the european union's support for appropriate preventive measures is also needed.
we're discussing the 2014 budget today because we're following procedure. and we must make it clear from the outset that we will not adopt the 2014 budget in this form unless we complete the adoption of the multiannual financial framework before then. in order for this to happen in november, we expect the council to take a number of clear steps, which we agreed on back in july. each time a budget is established, two principles are observed: one is a principle of 'going concern' and the other is a principle of precaution. i'm afraid with the budget we're discussing today, both principles are violated. as regards the long-term approach, what the council is proposing in its opinion to the commission is to reduce commitments by eur 9 billion compared to this year. and notice that the reduction is in the areas that would be most beneficial to the european union and the member states: research, innovation, youth mobility and erasmus, smes, information and communication technologies. it's in them that the budget is being cut. this is absurd and will lead to more problems. second, the precautionary principle. the budget proposal for next year - especially in the 'payments' part - is extremely dangerous, because as of this year we will have about 20 billion payments carried over to the next year, which is three times more than three years ago. this means that next year the european union is in real danger of suspending payments. who's gonna be affected by this? it will affect the regions, it will affect the member states, it will affect the economies. that's why we can't accept what the council is offering.
i wanted to speak against voting on procedural questions by roll call because citizens are confused and when they see our votes they think that this is the real vote on the substance of the report itself. i vote against this practice all the time, which i think is opaque, but the citizens get confused and think that i am essentially voting against the very thing that is put to the vote. it is against the rules to put such matters to a roll call vote, so i'm going to ask you not to do that again.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i supported the proposal of my political group to terminate the procedure for granting macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic, as it is proposed that the eu provide assistance to kyrgyzstan of eur 30 million in order to support the economic stabilisation of the country. i believe that the eu should first invest in the prosperity of member states that need support, such as bulgaria, and only then help countries outside the union.
in writing. − i supported the report by peter liese on in vitro diagnostic medical devices because this directive does not guarantee that low-quality in vitro diagnostic medical devices are not placed on the eu market. i believe that the eu should regulate these issues in a timely manner and offer a higher level of safety, given that these products are moving on the eu's free market, including in bulgaria, which i represent as an mep. the amendment to the directive will strengthen the market surveillance system and significantly improve the notified bodies. i support the proposal for mandatory company snapshots and the establishment of a network of european reference laboratories to play an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices. i am also in favour of a completely new classification system which is appropriate and based on an international consensus.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a new regulation on the revision of the existing regulatory framework for medical devices, as a revision of the regulation, which has been in force for twenty years, was particularly necessary and many improvements were introduced in the existing legislation. however, i was against the dagmar roth-behrendt report because the proposed voluntary regulation at this stage is not viable in the light of the market for devices in the individual member states. it is further complicated by the fact that there are no or very few common assessment methods (normative guidelines) in this area for manufacturers and notified bodies. as regards the authorisation, distribution and traceability of medicinal products, i believe that each member state should continue to apply its own national legislation, in accordance with its legal tradition and established practice.
in writing. - the report by karl schlitter on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on ship recycling is appropriate and comprehensive, and i therefore support it fully. i approve the amendments concerning the mechanism for financing environmentally sound ship recycling, the changes concerning the inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports, the recycling plan for eu ships going for recycling or older than 20 years, the explicit requirements for ship recycling facilities, in particular with a view to excluding the 'onshore' method, as well as the audits and regular inspections of these facilities and the proposed criminal sanctions for certain infringements. i consider it extremely important to add additional provisions which should be established in order to ensure that recycling and treatment of waste is carried out in an environmentally sound manner.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mrs sjögohr on european demographic statistics because in the current situation of increasing and complex demographic challenges, there is a need for a consolidated european effort. it is time for europe to start applying the same standards to its member states, rather than being the womb for some and the mother for others.
in writing. − i supported mrs estrela's report because sexual and reproductive health and rights affect every human being at every stage of life and are therefore important throughout life for both women and men. it is important to note that the high quality of family planning services and the availability of various contraceptives leads to both a low abortion rate and a higher birth rate.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support the report drawn up by mrs tannock, as it draws attention to human rights issues. the rapporteur notes that the human rights situation in the sahel has gained greater international importance as a result of the armed conflict in mali. the increasing focus on human rights in eu policy is also welcomed. it is important, however, that the eu starts to pay attention to and monitor as a priority the human rights situation in some of its member states, such as bulgaria.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to the sahel region. the emergency situation in mali has attracted the eu's attention in particular, but there are substantive and recurring problems in the region. strengthening states is a priority for stabilisation and for the protection of civilians. the fight against impunity, including sexual violence, is a second priority in the region, without which these countries will not be able to break out of the cycle of violence that is a major obstacle to development. finally, democratization will be a prerequisite for the lasting stabilization of the region. these three priorities will help to improve the human rights situation in the sahel. the report also has the merit of also recognising the important role that women play in the stabilisation and development of the sahel, which i think is paramount. finally, the need for coordination of external action, including between the eu special representatives for the sahel and human rights, was recalled, also to guarantee women's rights in the region. this is an important element.
in writing. − i voted against the corina kreţu report because i think the issues it touches on, on local authorities and civil society and europe's commitment to support sustainable development, are rather general and vague. i think the style of the report needs to be revised because it's losing its meaning. i would like to add that i support the idea of more democratic societies, and to achieve this it is necessary to encourage the eu to work more and more towards creating accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities.
i supported the report because i share its ideas. i think that this debate should take place in all national parliaments, because education is basically a national policy, but at the same time we all know that without quality education, the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved. in the interaction between education and business, we need to find the balance that does not change the fundamental mission of education: to create creative individuals who can develop the economy and change the world, but at the same time to give skills and qualifications to young people, because without this we cannot solve the problems of unemployment. serious attention should be paid to the interest of young people in technical and technological specialties, which is currently lacking. we should make these specialties more attractive, no matter how difficult they are, by supporting them financially. last but not least, we need to motivate young people to enter the teaching profession. not just to talk about how important the role of teachers and educators is in universities and schools, but to make the teaching profession more promising and better paid.
in writing. − for me, education is the key to human development and i believe that to get out of the current economic crisis, we need to focus on education and investment in this area. however, i voted against the report on education reform because i believe that the regulations concerning the education systems of each country should remain under the jurisdiction of national governments and parliaments. today the european commission is making recommendations, but tomorrow it could be legislation to standardize education systems, which would be the first step towards the loss of national culture and identity.
in writing. − the long-term development potential of the european union. in view of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we need to make efforts to ensure that more children finish school and enter the labour market. to do this, education needs to be accessible and provide equal opportunities for all, including from early childhood. the most vulnerable in this regard are a few groups. these include children and adults from local ethnic minorities who are socially disadvantaged, as well as those in education and those from immigrant families who wish to be educated. the ever-increasing flow of people seeking asylum in the european union adds refugees to these vulnerable groups. educational programmes should be adapted to the unique cultural and social context of their environment and fully respond to their needs for integration and a decent life, as well as to the economic development of the country of residence. i deliberately detail the vulnerable groups, which in the report are referred to more generally as people from 'lower socioeconomic strata'. i think that's what the current political climate requires. i support the report on education reform on these grounds.
in writing. − i supported this european parliament resolution because i am convinced that the necessary measures must be taken at national level to ensure better targeting of education and its overall improvement through new forms of training and development opportunities. the youth unemployment rate in the european union has risen alarmingly and, according to official figures, exceeded 23% in 2013. the situation in bulgaria is worsening significantly with one in four young people aged 15-29 not working, studying or training in any form. at the same time, hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe remain unfilled each year because of the gap between labour market needs and the real skills of young people. the resolution on education reform put the need to improve the educational process on the agenda by recognising the role of non-formal education, as well as internships and volunteering among young people. the call for the introduction of appropriate ways of financing education should be supported, with the aim of leading to new models of learning and providing easy access to new technologies in educational institutions. it is an innovative approach and targeted practical training in education that can provide the necessary skills for young people entering the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the orestes rossi report because i represent an eu member state with a small population and a relatively high population of patients with diseases. i therefore welcome any encouragement from the commission and the european institutions to step up efforts to implement effective programmes and policies across europe to improve the quality of healthcare, and to build a national and crossborder strategy. furthermore, as regards patients affected by adverse healthcare events, i support the proposal to encourage the commission to establish collective redress mechanisms in cross-border cases, despite the inability of the eu to interfere in the exercise of member states' competences in the field of healthcare. in support of my argument, i would add that, in addition to the benefits for patients, investments in patient safety are a potential source of savings for europe.
in writing. − i believe that the report on misleading commercial practices is extremely important, the resolution aims to better protect the rights of consumers and smes in the eu and should therefore be supported. i supported her. i support the commission's intention to explore the possibility of introducing an eu-wide blacklist of misleading commercial practices and, if possible, of companies that have been repeatedly convicted of such practices. i agree that europol should be more actively involved in tackling these forms of fraud by collecting information on cross-border forms of misleading commercial practices and analysing the structures behind the companies that are perpetrators, and by providing mechanisms for rapid exchange of up-to-date information on these practices and structures between national law enforcement authorities. the investigation and prosecution of misleading commercial practices should be improved; the commission should draw up guidelines for the attention of national law enforcement authorities on best practices in investigation and prosecution in order to seek international cooperation in this area with both third countries and competent international organisations; the commission should strengthen its participation in the international working group on mass marketing, which is composed of law enforcement and regulatory agencies and consumer agencies.
organised crime, corruption and money laundering have reached enormous proportions in the european union and have become a threat to the normal functioning of the democratic world. to most of you, my fellow citizens, this may sound far-fetched, but i speak from the position of a man who comes from a country where the mafia and power have merged. crime has a country, and unfortunately, that's bulgaria. state media confirms it. their bosses behave like owners and do not reflect impartially, but take sides, serving only narrow political and economic interests. there is no independent and objective judicial system that can serve as the ultimate protection for the rights and freedoms of the people of our country. the inability to tackle this huge problem at national level is obvious, which is why i am calling for a common approach at european level to combat these basic diseases of democracy. i therefore support the report and its proposals in general, but i would urge more serious action against the political mafia, as is the case in bulgaria.
i want to address mr. zeilstra first, because you didn't see my blue card, and say that it is absolutely unacceptable to throw accusations at bulgarian banks and other nationalities in this way. this is not how we fight crime. this is how it is created. and now i want to congratulate all the colleagues who worked on the crim commission and the report that we produced is really a huge step forward in the fight against crime. our report, mrs malmström, is not a handshake to the european commission, but rather a hand outstretched. as vice-chairman of the crim committee, i want to put a special emphasis on this. european citizens are the big losers from tax fraud and tax evasion. we are waiting for the commission's proposals for legislation against tax havens. we are aware that offshore zones enjoy the patronage of high-level politicians in europe and in the member states, who are often associated with them and use their services. our firm attitude toward them must be spoken aloud. there's another problem. the development of high technology has raised the issue of unregulated eavesdropping, both for political purposes and by transnational criminal networks. the eppo should be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure that the eppo is able to fulfil its tasks.
i was hoping today we could talk about the real numbers and facts of the study, away from the slogans and the populism. an attempt was made to displace the debate on the citizens' movement by anti-european parties and their political games, such as mr farage's party. it's a rhetorical question. i know. which is the larger amount? the social benefits for bulgarians or the amount that bulgarian doctors and nurses contribute to the british economy. populism in some member states has gone so far as to devise absurd rules and policies to deprive romanians and bulgarians of the labour market, even at the cost of breaching the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the motive for labor migration in most cases is to find better jobs and better pay, not social benefits. at the same time, strong measures are needed to combat the black labour market, which hires migrant workers who come cheap, without insurance, without social guarantees and with lower wages.
in writing. colleagues, the economic and financial crisis has presented european labour markets with major challenges. but overcoming them should not be expressed in negative campaigns against the abolition of restrictions on bulgarian and romanian citizens' access to the labour market. let us not forget that these are european citizens whose rights to daily life and freedom of movement must be guaranteed equally without any discrimination on grounds of nationality. the latest ec survey shows that inactive mobile european citizens represent a very small share of the total population in each member state and between 0.7% and 1.0% of the total eu population, generating low pressure on national social policy budgets. the challenges today are generated by crisis, globalisation and the combined impact of low population growth and an ageing population. overcoming them is linked to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy by creating more flexible markets, a modern social security system and greater mobility. mobility is the solution, not the source of the problem. mobility improves the quality of young people's education, their professional skills and increases their tolerance for cultural differences and communication. the mobility of workers in the eu has added value for the host economy and, consequently, for a more integrated and competitive european market. thank you, thank you!
mr tanak said it was very unfortunate that armenia went into the customs union with russia and that's indeed true. but do we ask ourselves why this is so? that armenia is a country that has been under a blockade by its neighbors for a decade now -- blockaded by turkey, blockaded by azerbaijan, blockaded by georgia. and how many times has that been said here in this room clearly and has a document been passed on that issue? i've heard very few people besides myself bring up this very serious issue. and naturally, after we didn't extend a hand to armenia, it went where it sees its interests better protected. the same is true of ukraine. as long as we present some ridiculous and unrealistic demands and conditions to this country, it will naturally pull towards russia, with which it has religious, cultural, historical ties that go back much further in time than those in the west. i just want to say that i don't see how long we're going to treat countries in africa and asia any better than we treat those closest to us, the european, christian countries. if this double standard continues, naturally they will run away from us.
i welcome the idea of cooperation between the european union and other countries. the report is on policy towards the arab world, the former eastern bloc and so on. fellow citizens, this is wonderful. but we're missing a small detail: the problems of all these countries can be seen in one member state of the european union. we want to help these countries, to cooperate with them, to help them get out of the difficult situation they are in, but we do not care about the european union member countries that are not in a better situation. bulgaria has not made a democratic transition, government after government has ruined the country. we have no government, including the judiciary, that is free from corruption and oligarchy. state media is under tremendous pressure to work for the benefit of any administration. europe has not taken care of the problems in its own backyard, but has rushed to help its neighbours and teach them democracy. it is hypocritical and it strongly discredits the union in the eyes of the thinking world. i'm all for neighborly cooperation, but only after we've solved our internal problems.
madam president, the union needs to send a stronger message of openness towards those of our eastern neighbours who wish to be closer to us. while the eu has always respected the desire of our partners to determine their degree of integration with the union, we cannot afford to passively observe some provocative trends in our immediate neighbourhood. recent developments have shown that the eu’s attractiveness can be questioned. at the vilnius summit it is time for the union to remain true to its commitments towards its partner countries, provided they meet the criteria. the eu’s policy towards our neighbours is a dynamic one. it is based on the eu’s values and norms and adapts to the needs and ambitions of its partner countries. the ‘more for more’ principle is the correct approach, as it enables those countries wanting to be closer to eu standards to do so. in certain cases, by establishing direct links between specific cases and the future of the countries in question, we should be aware of the risk of neglecting the efforts of these countries towards transposing these agendas and of pushing them and their societies back. strategic patience and consistency are therefore needed. reality checks are needed. the price which the union might need to pay if this reform movement is lost could affect the whole european neighbourhood policy, as well as the union’s image in the world. the eu’s commitments and programmes, such as the association agreements with its neighbours, are of mid- and long-term nature. the eu needs to provide benefits in the short term and to have a direct impact on the daily life of citizens, for example, by facilitating the visa procedures, or by engaging all the eastern partners in more of the union’s programmes at an accelerated rate. of course, more focus should be put on people-to-people contacts, as they are crucial for building stable societies, especially in conflict-riven regions and countries. the vilnius summit is a milestone, after which the promises and commitments need to be put into action. let us do our share and show our partners the value of their efforts. let me also commend you, commissioner, for your continuous efforts in this respect.
our eastern partnership policy is facing a huge challenge. on the one hand, moscow is more alive than ever with the cold war reflexes. the eastern partnership is seen as a threat and all possible instruments are used to sabotage it. on the other hand, the eastern partnership countries have a serious deficit in democracy. what should the european union do? i believe that at the vilnius meeting we should sign the association and free trade agreement with ukraine, subject of course to the conditions set by the council. ukraine must continue on the path of reform. georgia and moldova should do the same. a future strategic partnership with azerbaijan is in both our interests, but it should not bypass issues such as democracy and human rights. the doors of the european union must remain open to armenia. despite the complex geopolitical situation, we must find a new legal framework for cooperation with armenia that is in line with what was agreed during the association negotiations. in no case should we make this situation worse for armenia. the european union must be able to offer its partners not only association and trade but also guarantees of their security. but the question remains, what do we do with our cooperation with russia? how can we go forward with this country and how can we convince russia that the european union is not russia's enemy and the eastern partnership is not to its detriment?
the new fisheries fund will show how much we have made of the reform of the common policy. what we need are rules and more flexibility, because of the specificities of the member states and the sea basins. resources are limited, but opportunities are in several directions. they're not mutually exclusive, they're a matter of good governance. and the money for scrapping, and the money for renovation, for ports and exchanges, not a threat to fish stocks, but a bet on the development of the sector. and funds for young people to ensure the future of fishing. for the first time, the new fund is creating full conditions for the development of the black sea region, and i would like to thank you specifically for that, commissioner. the commission has also been active in the development of the black sea region, particularly following the establishment of the black sea regional advisory council, which will be a crucial step towards partnership in the region, for the conservation and development of fish stocks and the fisheries sector as a whole.
i come from the black sea region and i know that the people who live and work on the coast expect this fund to work for their support. and expectations are indeed high, disappointed to some extent by the not very high efficiency of the fund's operation in the current period. a large part of the funds was spent on the cessation of fishing activities. it is necessary, but far more necessary, to develop fishing activities to give people a perspective. fishing is a livelihood, jobs, employment. the fund should ensure entrepreneurship opportunities and support small and medium-sized businesses, small fishing vessels and especially where this involves the participation of young entrepreneurs would be of the utmost importance. training and qualification of fisheries personnel. however, there is no interest in secondary specialised schools for fisheries. we're already talking about safe schools, and maybe we should turn to the appropriate education authorities to make it a safe profession. the fund should really focus on education and science as well.
madam president, the agenda of the next european council looks very good: growth and jobs, youth unemployment, economic and monetary union, banking union, etc. the problem lies in the delivery because, when we say all these fine words, we have to look at what is happening in practice and what the council is doing in practice. let us take the digital economy. actually we should say ‘digital economies’, because there is no single digital economy in europe. we have 28 regulators, 28 rules and 28 markets for this. what the council is suggesting we do about this, as mr swoboda has just said, is to cut expenditure on enlarging the infrastructure and the broadband which would bring digital technologies to the people. it suggests cutting resources for innovation and research by eur 200 million next year. we agreed with the mff that they have to be increased, but now the council is suggesting that they will be increased post-2017. we have a number of files on the table: data protection, spectrum policy, connected europe and cloud computing. where is the council’s delivery? there is nothing on that. we have less than 10 % cross-border e-commerce in europe. only 3.5 % of research spending goes to the 13 new member states. do you know why? because there is a difference in researchers’ pay of up to seven or eight times. so this is what is not delivered by the council. a brief word on immigration: mr weber, whatever arguments you use about immigration, you cannot leave the burden of immigration to the border states. this is not sustainable or possible. you cannot ignore what is happening on the borders of europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, can i begin by thanking elmer brok for his comments and the rapporteurs for the reports that have been put before parliament today. i think it is very fitting, after the lisbon treaty in which we talk about a comprehensive approach, that we are using this opportunity to discuss cfsp and csdp together in one debate. our ability to use both actions at the same time and to link them with the work we do with development and with other commission policies is a key factor in the unique way in which the european union operates internationally. the honourable members have heard me say many times that over the course of my time in office i have had three broad priorities: to set up the service; to strengthen relations with, and effect a lasting change in, our neighbourhood; and to deepen and strengthen our relations with our strategic partners. all of these are covered in the reports. of course i cannot cover every aspect of the report, or indeed the whole world, in the time available in the way that mr brok’s report does. nor can i cover csdp in the same depth as ms koppa’s report, but i will focus, if i may, on a limited number of areas. but i would like to reassure this house that this does not mean that i do not consider all of the areas covered in the reports to be of enormous importance. i want to say a little bit about the external action service, because it was with the strong support of this house that we established a functioning 21st-century eu external action service. it represents and projects europe’s policies and values across the world. when i was writing the eeas review earlier this year, i was struck by just how much we had achieved – against the odds in many cases – and by the solid basis we have now laid for the future. the network of 141 delegations, the professional staff in brussels with global expertise: i want to pay tribute to all of them. i believe we have the best of the commission, council secretariat and member states combined. and soon we will also have the best from the european parliament. this allows us to be represented collectively and to show that, in today’s world, we are better when we operate together. i have said many times that this does not mean that we seek to detract from the role of national diplomacy, but rather – as has been acknowledged by all eu member states – there are things we can do together that we cannot do alone. we are particularly well placed to influence events and to promote stability and democracy in our own neighbourhood – both in the south and in the east. i have said many times before that we should be judged by the effectiveness of what we can achieve in our own neighbourhood. what we do and how we work with the people and countries around us is crucial for them, but it is also extremely important for our own economic and security interests. in the south we have seen dramatic changes, and our response to those events has been designed to strengthen the move towards positive change and to embed deep and lasting democracy. political and economic support has been targeted to incentivise reform, to promote inclusiveness – with particular reference to the role of women and young people – and to mobilise all forces in society, including civil society and the private sector. as recognised in the report, i developed the idea of task forces that bring together european institutions, international financial institutions and the private sector to develop tailor-made solutions for each country, not just in the area of economics but also to give support to civil society and human rights groups, to help them develop the institutions that will enable deep democracy to take root – democracy that goes beyond elections, that is based on institutions, the rule of law and a society that gives equal chances to everyone. that approach has been important in our cooperation with tunisia and jordan. of course, i would highlight how much more we need to do in libya. colleagues will know that i have been in contact with the prime minister of libya in new york and beyond, but there is much that our missions are currently engaged in aimed at bringing stability and security to that country. a lot of my time in recent months has also been spent in egypt, where i believe we have a unique role. we have built a strong reputation and we are a trusted interlocutor. i remain able to speak with all sides in egypt, and my message remains unchanged: an inclusive process is the best guarantee of future stability, and stability is required if we are to deal with the country’s political and economic problems. this is not only a message to take to political leaders. during my last visit i also met with the grand imam and the coptic pope to talk to them from a religious perspective. many honourable members have been concerned about what has happened to christians in egypt, so my meeting with the coptic pope was especially important as it allowed me to deliver those messages directly from you to him. i should also mention, whilst on the subject of our neighbourhood, the work that is currently going on with the middle east peace process, the close collaboration that i have established with us secretary john kerry, and the work that we are doing by engaging directly with both parties in support of these negotiations. we know that our objective is to find a lasting solution to this conflict that is based on two states. tomorrow, president abbas will visit me in brussels. he and i will discuss progress. we will also continue to engage with the team that is putting together the economic programme that can help to bring a long-term economic solution to the challenges in the west bank and beyond. honourable members will know that gaza and the issues and problems there are never far from my thoughts, and that they also represent a large part of the work in which we are engaged. we are, of course, looking now to support the process which will bring us to what we call geneva ii and the prospect of bringing together those from inside and outside syria in support of a process that will try to bring ceasefires and, eventually, a lasting peace. honourable members will know too that we continue to engage with syria. i recently sent a mission from brussels to damascus to meet with many of the groups with which we have continued to work. the reports from that mission were as alarming as they could be regarding what is happening in terms of malnutrition to people in the country and what needs to happen to help restore the city following the terrible destruction that has taken place there. we will continue to do all that we can to push forward, but i say now, honourable members, that we will need to engage in the long term with syria if we are to support the country into the future. that means remaining the largest donor in order to deal with this humanitarian emergency. eur 2 billion in humanitarian development and stabilisation assistance has gone both to syria and to its neighbours, and we still need to continue to do more. we are working with the syrian opposition coalition to try to improve their capacity to operate, and we are working – as i have already indicated – with a wide range of people engaged in trying to support the future directly on the ground in syria. we have worked too in helping to support opcw as it seeks to deal with the chemical weapons in syria. we have also provided logistical support and the vehicles that they are using. i have been in touch with the secretary-general to make it clear that we will continue to help in any way that we can. but i also want to talk about what is happening in our eastern neighbourhood. honourable members are very focused on the vilnius summit, which will take place next month. our aim is to have a common future that will ensure prosperity and security and guarantee long-term stability, and to bring our partners as close as possible to the european union. in new york, together with my colleague commissioner füle, we hosted a meeting with the six eastern partnership countries to take stock of progress towards the signing or initialling of agreements. it also gave us an opportunity to reiterate the need to implement all necessary reforms and to meet the benchmarks. in recent days, i have met with the foreign ministers of armenia and ukraine in order to make it clear once more what needs to happen. with ukraine, in particular, we have made it absolutely clear that we need to see delivery on three issues as crucial signals of ukraine’s determination: improved legislation on the electoral process, moving to adopt ambitious reform of the general prosecutor’s office, and, of course, dealing with the issue of selective justice. we need to see definitive progress in the case of yulia tymoshenko, and i want to welcome and fully support the efforts of mr cox and mr kwaśniewski and to pay tribute to them for the number of visits they have made and the work that they are doing. elsewhere, we have also continued to engage with serbia and kosovo. i met with the leaders for the 17th time in recent days as we prepare for the elections on 3 november. we continue to deal with the issues as they arise, working closely on the elections with the osce, which i want to thank for the work that it is doing. we have come an extremely long way in a very short time, and i hope that we will be able to sit down after the elections at our meeting, which will take place three days later, to work out the next stages of the agreements. but again, as i have done many times before, i want to pay tribute to the leadership in pristina and in belgrade for their courage in wanting to move forward in the way that they have. i have talked many times about what i call the comprehensive approach, and this is really fundamental to answering part at least of the question that mr brok raised when he opened this debate. this is about how, in the future, we will do things differently to how we have done them in the past and about what makes the european union unique, namely its ability to bring together all of the different elements that we have at our disposal, from our missions – be they military or civilian – through to the development work which we do, the political engagement at all levels, our security engagement, our work with civil society, the underpinnings of our values of the rule of law, human rights and justice. all of these are brought to bear on some of the greatest challenges that exist in the world. i think that these are important and significant ways in which we are distinct, unique and increasingly recognised across the world. i would argue that we are at the beginning of what can be, and what will be, in the years to come. we have thought about this in particular in the context of countries which are going through transition. it was a great joy to be here yesterday to see aung san suu kyi finally receive the sakharov prize, and in three weeks’ time i will meet her again as we go to the task force meeting which we have arranged in myanmar/burma. this country is on a journey of reform, but it needs to deal with a legacy of conflict, poverty, oppression and weak institutions, and it will take time. we are committed to demonstrating the eu’s long-term commitment to supporting that journey and to continuing to say to all those who hold positions of responsibility that there is much that they need to do. there can be no complacency if the country is to continue to move forward. good beginnings, but by no means enough. we are also, when we think about that region, significantly developing and strengthening our relations with asia. i am very pleased with the positive momentum we have had in eu-asean relations in the past 18 months. we have scaled up and re-directed this relationship from one focusing heavily on trade and development to a much more strategic partnership for the future. in the next few weeks, i will visit the region for the third time in seven months. when i co-chair the next eu–asean foreign ministers meeting, which will take place in march 2014, i want us to be able to demonstrate that both sides see the strategic case for investment in this real partnership for the future. i want to say something about the terrible events which took place in the westgate shopping centre in nairobi and to express again our horror at what happened there. what is happening in nearby somalia, which has a direct effect on this, is really significant as the country moves from failure towards being able to show the beginnings of regaining the capacity to operate as a state. i was really pleased to co-host the brussels conference with the president of somalia. this was a milestone in our efforts to reconstruct a peaceful, federal state, and in the willingness of the international community to support it. honourable members, this was not only about raising money – important though money is – it was about identifying, with somalia, the benchmarks, the milestones and the issues in which we can engage directly with them and our colleagues in countries across the world to try to help to ensure success at every level. we also have three csdp missions operating there, and the new deal compact that we made in brussels provides a framework to help with reconstruction, to really ensure that we are able to help them to develop and provide support. there is the eur 1.8 billion, as i have indicated, but much greater than this is the genuine long-term commitment. but of course, this is only one of the countries in africa in which we are active. we are supporting efforts to combat insecurity, terrorism and organised crime in western central africa; reducing tensions in the great lakes; and in mali we continue to work with many partners, including ecowas, in order to provide support for minusma. our efforts are part of our broader strategy for the sahel to ensure security and development across the region, and part of the broader concept that we have to help support peace-building in different parts of africa. this includes in sudan, in south sudan and in the central african republic, where we are working to support the transition process and the restoration of the rule of law. we will have the african union/eu summit in april, and this will be a real opportunity to set a stronger forward-looking agenda for our relations with the african union, something that madam zuma and i have discussed many times and which i hope we will turn into a reality in the months between now and april, in order to make this the most successful summit ever. this is also true of our relations with latin america and the caribbean. this is a region that is increasingly influential in world affairs. last january we had the successful eu-celac summit in santiago, which was an opportunity to reinforce the partnership and to get the agenda set for the coming years. in the caribbean, too, we have commissioned and put together a joint strategy that emphasises that our relations are about more than traditional development cooperation and trade, important though these are. again, it is important to develop strategic relations with regions across the world that move from traditional relationships to forward-looking strategic political partnerships. i fully agree with what mr brok has said: we need to operate in a world in which we forge strong partnerships with our strategic allies – the usa, of course; brazil, india, china and russia – and with international and regional organisations as well. i have invested, and will continue to invest, a lot of time in those key relationships with those strategic partners across the world. this is not just because they matter bilaterally, but because they matter in terms of what we are able to do in terms of influencing and dealing with some of the issues which face us – not just far away, but in our own neighbourhood too. i agree that the relationship with the united states is vital in this. that partnership is essential for us – and, i would say, for them – and i also believe that signing the ttip will make that even stronger. but i also want to welcome the strong emphasis in the report on universal values. these need to be always at the core of our work. they are central to helping achieve peace and prosperity, promoting deep democracy underpinned by human rights, and ensuring that the roots of democratic freedoms are well established and cannot be removed. our election observation missions play a vital part in doing that: seven on-going missions right now, and five completed already this year. our promotion and protection of human rights, too, is at the centre of our policies, developing the range of instruments that we have. the strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy are designed to be a guiding reference for our action. we have also established guidelines on the promotion and protection of the enjoyment of all human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people. let me once again stress that this is integral to our human rights efforts and a central aspect of our engagement with all our partners. but as the report says, we need to work together to improve our effectiveness. i was pleased to appoint the first ever special representative for human rights. he has made an outstanding contribution, and i want to thank him and this parliament for your pro-active role and support and cooperation. i would also like to say something about csdp in the context of what it brings in terms of its unique contribution. it is an important and integral part of our policy options. we have strong relationships with the un, nato and the african union. we have considerable operational expertise: 30 missions on three continents in the last 15 years, changing the fortunes of people and countries and protecting or promoting our values. we currently deploy more than 7 000 civilian and military personnel, and this is producing results: our eu maritime operation atalanta has drastically reduced the problem of piracy off the somali coast. security in somalia has greatly improved, thanks to the training provided by our mission to 3 000 somali recruits and the eu funding of amisom. in afghanistan, our police mission has trained 5 000 afghan police officers, and eulex kosovo plays a key role in the accompanying implementation of the recent belgrade-pristina agreement. honourable members will know that the european council last december asked me to develop proposals and actions to further strengthen csdp. in july 2013, i presented my interim report, and on the basis of discussions that took place from that, i issued a final report on 11 october 2013. this contains a range of proposals and actions in line with that mandate, and i have shared these reports with parliament. there is no question that the changing geostrategic context, rising security challenges and continuing squeeze on national defence budgets, seen in the light of increased spending in other parts of the world, make the strategic debate at the december european council a real priority. i believe that leaders must address the crucial question of the political will to develop and deploy capabilities. between 2005 and 2010, european defence spending declined by almost 10 %, and it is estimated to have declined by a similar amount over the last three years. global growth is predicted to rise by 6.8 % in the years 2011 to 2015 as we see accelerated defence spending in emerging markets, russia and china. in 2012, asian defence spending overtook europe’s for the first time. we know too that the us is also expected to make changes in the region of at least 10 %. this points, i would argue, to more european inter-dependence. we have to do more together and identify ways of using the eur 200 billion we spend on defence each year more effectively, developing and enhancing cooperation and common approaches. when i look at the work of the commission in its july document ‘towards a more competitive and efficient defence and security sector’, as vice-president of the commission, i would say that we tried to set out the importance of working together and of seeing a joined-up and coherent effort. i thank michel barnier and his team, and antonio tajani, for the work that they have done. we know the defence industry is a driver for jobs, growth and innovation: eur 96 billion in 2012. it brings major contributions to the wider economy, directly employs 400 000 highly-skilled people and generates nearly 960 000 indirect jobs. so the message of my report is clear: we need to be able to act, through the csdp, as a security provider in the neighbourhood and, at international level, to protect our interests and project our values. the member states’ commitment to this is required, so i hope that we will see a successful european council where leaders can come together and make the decisions that can drive this further forward for the future. honourable members, thank you for listening to what has been quite a long speech covering these reports. i would again like to thank the rapporteurs for the work that they have done and to thank you for listening to this report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, one minute is not really enough time to try to explain the significance of the financing of everything that the european union is doing in this context. i will change to bulgarian. целта на този дебат е да бъдат начертани действия, които максимално да защитят интересите на съюза и позиционирането му като важен международен играч. като докладчик за финансирането на външната политика в бюджетната комисия, няма как да не бъда обезпокоена от намаляващите средства за следващия програмен период. съкращенията неминуемо ще се отразят върху ангажиментите на европейския съюз към международната сигурност, особено в съседни страни като косово и грузия, и съответно върху авторитета на съюза. поради тази причина съм на мнение, че малкото пари за външна политика трябва да бъдат изразходвани изключително ефективно. приоритетно е разрешаването на отдавнашните проблеми с управлението, логистиката и финансирането на мисиите за сигурност и отбрана чрез създаването на механизъм, който да анализира дали и как целите на мисиите са постигнати. важно е чрез диалог и обмяна на идеи непрекъснато да бъдат търсени начини за подобряване изразходването на средства за външна политика в интерес, забележете, най-вече на европейските граждани.
the issues we are addressing in the debate on the common foreign policy relate both to the eastern partnership and to the good neighbour policy. these priorities are the subject of extremely important work in a complex geopolitical environment political and financial crises, complicated relations with our partners and third countries. we need to be more dynamic, decisive and responsible. we have made positive progress in relation to the eastern partnership countries legislative reforms, dialogue with civil society, strengthening of democratic processes. on the eve of vilnius, the report gives good prospects for the european integration of ukraine, moldova, georgia. it's important that we have a breakthrough on visa liberalization with moldova. with the pressure on these countries increasing, we must be responsible and not leave them alone. in the case of armenia, despite its reorientation, we must continue and consolidate our support. we should not question the need for dialogue with russia, which remains our strategic partner. i would also like to share my hope for european support for the democratic processes in turkey and the resolution of some outstanding issues with its neighbours, including bulgaria.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr brock, for trying to take account of the need for a balance of interests and values in a new european union foreign policy by building a new holistic approach, targeted and resource-based, so that the european union can take a leading role in a constantly changing world. in discussing the common foreign policy in the light of the treaty of lisbon, i would like to draw your attention to the common security and defence policy as an integral part of it. in the age of globalization, threats in geographically remote places can be just as serious as those in close proximity. what is characteristic is that no one is purely military, nor can they be removed by purely military means. the new threats require the integrated use of different tools and an integrated approach. to that end, it's time for a strategic rethink of the security environment. we need a new common strategic vision which, in addition to defining the challenges, must prioritise the objectives, optimise and consolidate the capacities according to the principle of pooling and sharing. the european union must ensure that its security and development policies are harmonized and assess its economic, technological, political and defence capabilities, taking into account resource shortages, the demographic "storm" in north africa, the middle east and asia, the redistribution of powers and the players on the world stage. europe must decide how it wants to position itself and be perceived from now on. more focus and priority.
mr president, i too thank the rapporteur for his work and congratulate him on the richness of his text. i would like to emphasize three points. firstly, the visibility of the union's external action is the top priority. in this context, i welcome the idea of strengthening coordination between heads of mission, eu special representatives and heads of delegation. this is how the union can speak with a strong voice and achieve its ambitions. i would then like to emphasize the partnership with africa. we must have the courage to pursue our ambitions, the courage to have a give-and-take partnership, the courage to strengthen our cooperation with the african union, but also with sadc, ecowas and ceeac, the courage to take stock of economic partnership agreements and to see how we approach economic issues in foreign policy. we must not forget the potential of the great lakes region, the sahel, the horn of africa and the centre of the african continent. thirdly, i would like to stress the role of the european union as mediator. mediation is an integral part of the union's preventive diplomacy. this is one of the components of the overall approach. it's our added value. as such, i would like to congratulate you, mrs ashton, on the work you are doing with the mediation support team. finally, i would also like to congratulate you on all the efforts you are making to promote women in the union's foreign policy. this is very encouraging for all european citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am here on behalf of mr günther oettinger, who, due to other obligations, could not attend the debate this evening. let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr thomas ulmer, for his positive and well-balanced report and the constructive approach taken by the committees towards this quite complex and technical proposal – as you, mr ulmer, rightly mentioned. let me also emphasise the importance of this proposal establishing basic safety standards in the area of radiation protection. there are many activities in our society which involve the use of ionising radiation, such as medical diagnosis and cancer treatment, various industrial applications, energy production and applications in security screening. these activities need to be performed whilst ensuring the highest possible protection for workers, members of the public and patients. in addition, we are all living in the presence of natural radiation sources such as cosmic radiation and radon, which also call for appropriate protection for members of the public and workers. in order to guarantee the highest level of protection, the commission has proposed revising the current basic safety standards: firstly, to take account of the scientific and technological progress since the last revision of the directive in 1996, and secondly, to consolidate the existing set of euratom radiation protection legislation into one single piece of legislation. the ulmer report brings some constructive amendments to this proposal, which aim to increase transparency in decision-making and improve the related public information. these aspects have also been raised and discussed during the negotiations in the council. further to this, the commission fully agrees that the proposal needs to clarify the relationship between the proposed euratom directive and legislation under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. however, several issues raised in the amendments cannot be supported by the commission. firstly, we cannot accept the suggestion to change the legal basis from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has based its proposal on the euratom treaty as lex specialis, considering that the establishment of basic safety standards for protection against dangers arising from ionising radiation is explicitly stipulated in its chapter dealing with health and safety. moreover, all the legal acts which will be repealed by this proposal are based on the euratom treaty, and therefore a change of the legal basis from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union is not justified. secondly, in the absence of proper scientific justification, the commission cannot agree with the amendments proposed which would involve extending lower-dose limits for the eye lens from workers to the broader public, as well as lower-dose limits for extremities and skin. the commission’s proposal concerning these limits is based on the most recent scientific findings. finally, the proposal to extend the application of occupational exposure requirements from air crew to frequent flyers cannot be supported, considering the administrative burden which would be created by such a measure. for instance, this would necessitate identification of the relevant employers and workplaces and the enforcement of an appropriate protection regime. in our view this would be very burdensome if not almost impossible to implement. however, it should be underlined that, while the proposal is meant to define uniform basic safety standards, it is the commission’s understanding that the proposal does not preclude a member state from providing more stringent measures of protection.
on behalf of the alde group. we have worked long and hard to reach agreement on mr ulmer's report on the proposal for a council directive laying down basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. now i think we can be satisfied with the final text. the parliament's proposal includes important improvements, with priority given to protecting the health of workers and patients as well as the public, to the emergency preparedness of member states and their ability to respond quickly and adequately when needed. as regards certain species exposed to ionising radiation and their maximum permitted levels, we in the environment committee went beyond what was originally proposed by the european commission to include more ambitious and stringent safety measures in order to reduce as much as possible the risks to public health. the revised directive will allow stakeholders and citizens to participate more actively in the decision-making process related to their safety and exposure to ionising radiation. to this end, we also asked for guarantees of a uniform minimum level of protection in the member states of the european union. this will send an important message to member states about how high our safety and radiation protection targets are not only at european level but also globally. the aim of this directive was to provide a more effective instrument for the protection of public health, workers and the environment against the dangers arising from ionising radiation. that goal, i believe, has been achieved. i congratulate mr. ulmer on a job well done.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i think that requires a separate topic and a separate consideration and a separate focus in the report. it is indeed worth paying special attention to, and we shall certainly do so in the committee on the environment. thank you for asking, it's very important.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the balanced and sensible approach he has taken to consider and supplement the commission's proposal. at present, radiation protection issues for the general public are the subject of five directives and a number of regulations adopted at different times, and it is quite natural that there are differences and even contradictions in the legal provisions. i therefore welcome the consolidation of the safety requirements for exposure to ionising radiation into a single new directive. the directive unconditionally reflects the latest scientific recommendations for changes to the existing system of protection against ionising radiation, based on the experience and scientific data accumulated to date. an important innovation is that, for the first time, the scope of legislation establishing safety standards will also include natural sources of radiation and cosmic radiation to which certain categories of people are exposed. that should be welcomed. as regards the legal basis of the directive, i think it is right to take account of the opinion of parliament's legal affairs committee and to retain euratom as the basis of the legislative proposal. the introduction of a separate chapter in the environmental protection directive would at present only have a general significance, since the effects of radiation on plant and animal species cannot yet be established on a scientific basis. proposals for drastically low standards for some of the doses, which are not based on a sound scientific basis, are also not acceptable. i believe that the adoption of the report will make a significant improvement in the protection of the general public against exposure to ionising radiation by establishing modern safety standards.
the environment is one of the pillars of sustainable development. the fact that people's well-being depends on environmental policies poses many challenges for the european union. on the one hand, because the european union is a leader in these policies, on the other hand, environmental problems know no borders. a common effort is needed, because the differences in responsibilities between the european union and other countries, on the other hand, challenge politicians, businesses, scientists, citizens. the seventh environmental programme is an ambitious and higher step with which we want to increase our contribution to the transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy. thank you to the committee, thank you to the rapporteur for the material we have presented. we need an integrated european policy and cooperation on a global scale. greening the economy requires a high level of synchrony in the transfer of environmental components, in the characteristics of goods and services in the market. today we talk about green technology, green growth, green jobs that this program will provide, but at the same time we have a hard time solving the problems of climate change, of the accumulation of tons of waste, of the pollution of water basins. our 2020 targets are ambitious, but we also need to talk about the competitiveness of the member states' economies. sometimes the environmental burden is hard to bear by national businesses, for example in carbon trading, or by citizens, for example in the case of renewable electricity. this makes some national economies difficult to compete with, due to the high prices of production compared to the prices of goods coming from outside countries. the european union's support to national economies is important and the implementation of this programme depends on that support.
in writing. dear mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'welfare within the framework of our planet' is the name of the new european environment action programme to 2020, which should also offer an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050. the name itself reflects the conflict between economic activity and environmental protection and the need to reconcile them in the context of sustainable development. in times of economic crisis and budgetary austerity, environmental protection policies could easily be seen as a constraint and a burden on economic growth and employment. but that's not far-sighted. environmental action requires considerable costs, but inaction would cost even more. environmental concerns should therefore no longer be a variable but should be integrated as an integral part of the various sectoral policies. because the idea of green growth is based on an economy that uses less or better energy and raw materials, that produces and consumes in a rational way, avoiding waste, that controls emissions and waste, ultimately reducing pressure on the environment. we have an obligation to create today's prosperity, but we also have an obligation to be stewards of the planet, so that it remains for our children.
in writing. − i welcome the report by mrs neves on improving seabed mapping for fisheries purposes, on the assumption that knowledge of the marine environment is essential to achieving the objectives of the 'europe 2020' strategy, and that the development of the 'blue economy' is a key factor in the implementation of the strategy. i believe that this ambitious and wide-ranging project can bring about a significant improvement in marine-related areas, while also combining a number of other priorities for the development of the 'blue economy', the benefits of which for the eu are indisputable.
in writing. − i support the report on the proposal for a regulation on the exercise of the union's rights to implement and enforce international trade law, as the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the proposed regulation aims to enable the union to establish a comprehensive and effective framework to allow immediate action to be taken for the effective exercise of the union's rights under international trade agreements in order to protect its economic interests. the main ideas in this report are mainly aimed at providing a structured and systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament without delay in the decision-making process.
in writing. − i consider the report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european maritime and fisheries fund to be clear and appropriate. the changes are good and include several key aspects that directly affect bulgaria. i voted in favour of guaranteeing a level playing field for producer organisations throughout the european union and of making direct funding available for the development of production and marketing plans. i also welcome the proposals for sustainable and cohesive territorial development of areas dependent on fishing. i agree that the emff should support the development, competitiveness and sustainability of fisheries.
in writing. − following the presentation in june of the interim report of the ep's special committee on combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim), we voted today on the final version of the document. all of us who supported the report are united in our understanding that the serious challenges posed by crossborder crime require a pan-european response. the commission has also made a number of recommendations to member states and the commission on the steps to be taken in the period 2014-2019. the objectives include measures to prevent trafficking in human beings and cybercrime and the introduction of best practices related to the confiscation of property acquired through criminal activity. in addition to recommendations to promote administrative, judicial and police cooperation at european and international level, the report explicitly emphasises the role of investigative journalism in uncovering cases of fraud, corruption and organised crime. i cannot help but emphasise the call for the criminalisation of vote buying during elections, as well as the measures relating to stricter controls on the financing and accountability of political parties. i am convinced that by improving the regulatory framework and enhancing cooperation between member states, as well as by introducing measures at european level, the fight against these negative phenomena will be more effective.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report because there is hardly anyone who doubts the urgent need to fight effectively against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. these phenomena have acquired global dimensions and require an adequate response, with appropriate legal instruments to be established at community level. along with violence and intimidation, corruption is a typical method of operation of organized crime. money laundering is closely linked to corruption, tax evasion, and tax evasion. although by their very nature they are separate phenomena, the existence of such interconnections requires common targeted actions. the report of the temporary committee proposes a single and coherent legislative framework to strike at the economic heart of organised crime, which operates across national borders and territories, and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. at the same time, i welcome a more responsible policy on the vulnerability of public administrations to corruption, a policy on swifter and more reliable criminal justice, a more stable entrepreneurship, a more transparent banking and professional system, and appropriate measures against money laundering to prevent crime from continuing to be a profitable activity that harms the legitimate economy, honest entrepreneurs and citizens.
in writing. - conscious of the economic motivation and without neglecting the environmental benefits, i voted against the gaston franco report. the reasons for this are that i think it is unreasonable in a country like bulgaria during an economic crisis to make decisions on such large-scale investments that do not meet the standards. in a member state where the need for a comprehensive change in established patterns of governance, behaviour, business, consumption, etc. is paramount, concrete measures are needed for the urgent agenda, and a similar programme, which consumes a huge resource, would rather cause harm. in addition, i would like to note that if environmental commitments are undertaken at european and international level, the likely lack of political will and the difference in implementation between member states could lead to additional administrative burdens.
in writing. − it is my personal view that the revision of the council directive laying down basic safety standards is the next necessary step to improve protection against exposure to ionising radiation. the text of the directive laying down basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation has been optimised in a meaningful way by including necessary additions, such as the recommendation to distinguish between existing exposure situations linked to natural radioactivity and existing exposure situations due to human activity, additions on a thorough study of the impact that ionising radiation has on both people and the environment, the effective management of nuclear accidents with cross-border consequences, etc.
in writing. - i welcome the brok report on the common foreign and security policy. this is a very important area for the eu in its development. the report also pays particular attention to the eu's relations with its strategic partners in the field of peace, security and socioeconomic development. as regards eu cooperation with the us, the report stresses that to build trust, the us needs to respect sensitive data protection legislation and change its data collection activities targeting the eu and its citizens. this is a very important point at a time like this, when serious problems and doubts are ripe.
in writing. i voted for this report because it is a rich report and it emphasises the priorities of the eu's foreign and security policy. the report highlights in particular the need for coordination between the various actors in eu foreign policy in third countries (special representatives, heads of delegation and heads of mission). this should give the eu greater visibility on the international stage. i would add that one of the eu's strategic partnerships is with africa, working with regional (au) and sub-regional organisations such as ecowas and eecsc. the cfsp must also focus on preventive diplomacy in a comprehensive approach, with the eu acting as mediator. i also voted in favour of this report because we must support the efforts of the high representative to secure a permanent seat on the un security council. this would be a great step forward for the cfsp. finally, i welcome the momentum created by catherine ashton for the inclusion of more women in eu foreign policy.
in writing. - i support the report. the security system the eu is seeking to build for itself is ambitious and unique. on the one hand, we are still building the european external action service, on the other hand, in the eu we are looking at foreign affairs, security and defence policy in an integrated way, parallel to nato's priorities for smart defence. from this perspective, i believe we are on the right track, and i want to congratulate lady catherine ashton and all those involved. as bulgaria is neighbour to some of the countries covered in mr brock's report and is affected by the situation in syria, i welcome the eeas' impressive work on kosovo-serbia relations; i am pleased to see a focus on the strategic partnership with turkey, as well as a reaffirmation of enlargement as a key eu instrument. but - and i share the view of mrs neynski - in the development of the particular way in which the eu conducts its foreign policy, budget cuts bring a particular uncertainty to our future actions. 'efficiency' should therefore be the keyword for the coming years, which also means increased coordination with the european parliament from the outset. if we succeed in this endeavor, we will see a united and active, rather than reactive, foreign policy.
in writing. − i supported this report because, on the one hand, i believe that the development of telecommunications in the eu is one of the main drivers of economic growth in the union, and on the other hand, because the report criticises the european commission for not yet having made a proper review of the telecommunications framework directive. this framework was adopted in 2007 and its only revision was in 2009. four years have passed since then and it is high time that the regulatory framework was revised again in order to identify problems and identify areas for improvement.
mr president, i take the opportunity to see commissioner vassiliou here because i want to introduce her to a problem which i think we can solve together here as european politicians. as a former athlete, i support the inclusion of sport in the erasmus programme. funding motivates young people to grow, but i know money isn't the main motivator. motivation comes when your efforts pay off in tournaments. whatever funding is there, if the young people don't show up, it's all gone. european artistic gymnastics is discriminated against for the youth olympic games, the work of the best european artistic gymnastics schools is destroyed. there will be six ensembles, with the continent hosting two. i believe there's been a technical error. i dare not think that it was done deliberately, avoiding the participation of some european countries. no country of the european union will participate in this allocation. countries on two continents or even outside europe, such as russia, kazakhstan, turkey and others, will benefit. we must do everything to correct this injustice by demanding that the number of ensembles in europe be three. i call for immediate action because we must show that we can protect the rights of european citizens.
mr president,the programming of 'erasmus for all' is the expected step towards improving cooperation mechanisms in the field of education and now also in sport, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 programme. this really shows that the european union is putting education first. i'll make three points: first, the inclusion of support for innovation, which will greatly improve the motivation of the young generation and the academic staff. secondly, the programme will be much more successful if certain specific procedures in its implementation are reconsidered, for example the harmonisation of the funding conditions for participation in the different activities. the difference in rates for both students and teachers puts some countries at a disadvantage and makes them an unattractive destination. the differences in the pay of participants create a precondition for inequality and by regulating the geography of the programme, we should reciprocally regulate the financial parameters in order to achieve good partnerships. thirdly, i welcome the simplification of procedures, and i hope that some of them will be revised to make the programme more successful.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as others have said before me, there are in fact no meps who know better than we, who are elected from eastern europe and have to travel several thousand kilometres each week from our countries to the european parliament's offices, how important the development of european transport networks is. so i am of course in favour of this initiative and this european project. we now understand that the new programming period is preparing for a greater development of rail transport, of railway infrastructure, but here i want to draw attention to something that in addition to the infrastructure itself, i think that investments should also be made, especially in the railways, in terms of what moves on this infrastructure. five years ago in bulgaria, a train, because of the old cars, because of the old composition, caught fire and burned and several dozen people died. however, a year and a half ago, the european commission refused to allow bulgaria to make what i would call vital, life-saving investments in its railways, to develop them and bring them up to a modern european level so that people would want to use them. because the bulgarian railways are collapsing right now, precisely because nobody wants to ride in murder cars. and that is why, commissioner, when you give with one hand and take with the other, it does not leave a good impression on european citizens. they mostly see the latter.
ladies and gentlemen, i know you've been following what's been happening in bulgaria in recent months, but i'm here today to tell you that there are actually two bulgarians - one of the obscure political and economic interests behind the oresharski cabinet, which has taken thousands of people out on the streets of bulgaria in recent months in an attempt to confront the mafia and corruption. in this bulgaria, the legal order is giving way to administrative arbitrariness, solidarity is giving way to racism and xenophobia, institutions are subordinated to corporate interests. but today i am here to ask you to support another bulgaria - the one that has been protesting for more than 150 days for morality and values, the bulgaria of bright and uncompromising minds, of people with the courage to defend principles in a time without principles, of those who are not afraid to say out loud that there are other things besides bread that are worth protesting for, a young bulgaria that is determined not to live in compromise like its parents. this bulgaria is not afraid of the shields of heavily armed police, of midnight inspections and interrogations. she wants change, not replacement. for this bulgaria, i ask your support here, in the heart of europe, as 15 years ago they supported our aspiration.
mr president, i would like to address the president of the european parliament, mr schulz, and mr freedom. i'm sure that as true european social democrats, they understand the difficult situation they have found themselves in with the election of their chairman sergei stanishev, who comes from the unreformed bulgarian communist party. the current bulgarian government came to power after heavy manipulation in the pre-election period and is supported by dubious oligarchic circles and outright anti-european forces. the scandalous enth-business-national-socialist government of bulgaria, which serves moscow's geopolitical interests, is a disgrace to european social democracy. the sooner you get rid of this burden, dear european social democrats, the better it is for your european election campaign and reputation. just two examples: the prime minister announced that he would fire civil servants who protest against the government and bulgaria would almost triple the budget for wiretaps, which is absolutely unjustified, together with the changes in the "security" sector, which led to the collapse of confidence in the national assembly to 11%. i hope for the necessary reaction from the european social democrats for a democratic solution to the political crisis in bulgaria.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am glad that we have reached this day and this moment when we are discussing for the last time and i hope that today we will adopt the multiannual financial framework. this has been a very long journey for parliament. we started three years ago with a special sure committee, in which we presented, before the commission's proposal, parliament's vision for the next seven years, after which we had very long, very difficult negotiations with the council. i am glad that they are over and i am pleased that europe will have its own budget from next year for the next seven years. we could have done more. and by we could, i mean all the institutions of the european union. we could have made the european budget a much more compelling growth instrument than it is today. we could have made the european budget help the countries in difficulty, the regions, and show that there is added value in it. we could, and the member states could, do this, to understand that every euro invested in the european budget is more efficient than the euro invested in the national investment budget, and that the european budget does what national budgets cannot do in a time of crisis - public investment - what our economies need. we couldn't do that. on the contrary, i think we've actually achieved results that are good and that provide a good foundation. first, despite the unprecedented reduction, never before in the history of the european union, of the union budget, we have agreed on a mechanism that will make the use of funds much more efficient and what is promised will be spent and paid for european projects. secondly, and i am glad that the socialist group has been extremely active in this respect, we have a new instrument to combat youth unemployment and the youth guarantee - with 6 billion euros for the first two years. something that is extremely important, but it's not enough. the problem is, with these tools, we can only signal, not solve the problem. we managed to agree on 400 million euros to be spent earlier to help the european economy get out of the crisis - for youth projects, for science and research, for the competitiveness of the economy. we have defended the fund for the poorest of our fellow citizens who need help - the fund for the poorest of europe's citizens. these are accomplishments that are real. we're very much about mid-term review. we are holding because i am convinced that in two years' time it will be clear that the european budget can be used much better, much more successfully and it can produce much better results. we will insist on continuing the talks on our own resources and on achieving a result on our own resources. the european budget is currently seen by national parliaments as a burden. it is not normal, it is not a burden, it helps the member states and therefore it should be sufficiently autonomous, not with new taxes, but with much more autonomy and guaranteeing its own resources. and finally, within this budget framework, we have agreed on a number of policies. one of them, which raises a lot of objections, including in my group of socialists and democrats, is the policy on macroeconomic conditions. it is not normal to punish countries and regions that have economic problems additionally, and i am convinced that this measure is not good. yes, we have improved it compared to the original proposal, but i am convinced that this is an area where we need to work further so that the european budget can help rather than hinder the national countries. with this result, i am confident that today we will be able to support the multiannual financial framework and parliament will be able to fulfil its commitment to the council.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, this morning’s debate on the multiannual financial framework (mff) is the culmination of a long process. first of all, after an enormous amount of work by all our institutions, we reached an agreement in june. i would like to thank warmly all those who were involved in the mff negotiation process. i know that, from the very start, this house, and president schulz personally, played a major role in securing a final deal. then we entered yet another round of codecision process on 70 related legislative proposals. we have rarely had tougher negotiations, even in the crisis years, but in the end we are on the right track for reaching agreement on all the proposals. so we can now look forward to releasing the funds that will provide a major boost to our economies in areas such as research, innovation, education, culture, cohesion and agriculture. this is an investment budget: a budget our economies need to grow. it is a budget that supports our policies in the area of justice and home affairs and a budget that strengthens the eu’s external action. in short, the multiannual financial framework is what it takes to translate great ideas into tangible action both within the union and globally. this multiannual financial framework is clearly a compromise solution, but it is also a solution that creates opportunities for our people. therefore, i consider it a success which we have achieved together. i turn now to you, honourable members, and i confirm that the european parliament played an unprecedented role in the negotiations. not only have you defended your positions with strength and conviction but you have also succeeded in making the framework more flexible and you have managed to convince others of the need for a review in the future. you have injected more transparency into the eu budget and you also ensured that the process will continue, since we are already preparing to set up a high-level group on own resources. today we can see the bigger picture, which consists not only of the mff itself – i.e. the regulation on the interinstitutional agreement and the declarations – but also of the draft amending budgets, the sectoral legislation and the preparatory work on the high-level group on own resources. the lithuanian presidency is fully committed to making this group operational before the end of this year. moreover, as we confirmed in our letter to mr lamassoure, we are ready to organise an inaugural meeting of the high-level group on 18 or 19 december at the latest. the vote on the mff is eagerly awaited by many, and first and foremost by our citizens. they will be able to use new roads, new infrastructure and new telecoms networks; they will reap the benefits of research, participate in erasmus exchanges and benefit from european funding, in one way or another, in their everyday lives. i would like to conclude by thanking all those who, on behalf of your institution, contributed to making it happen: to president schulz and the whole parliament negotiating team, headed by alain lamassoure. my thanks also go to president barroso and commissioner lewandowski and to president van rompuy and our heads of state and government, who paved the way for an agreement at their february meeting, and of course to my various predecessors in the council presidency, all of whom have put a huge amount of work and energy into this matter since the commission brought forward its proposal on the mff more than two years ago. it has taken the joint efforts of all of us to make this agreement possible. we look forward now to a positive vote later this morning which will enable us to submit the mff package for adoption by the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, todayʼs vote – and hopefully agreement – in this house will be, i am sure, one of the milestones of this parliamentʼs mandate because this is about the huge work on legislation and budgetary decisions. this is the final act in long and complex negotiations, not long and complex because this – i mean the multiannual budgets enshrined in the treaties – is happening for the first time but because of the exceptional context of europe in crisis. for the commission and myself this has really been a very long story. it started as early as 2009 with a budgetary review. this was followed by the draft in june 2011: still, i believe, responding better to the needs of europe, being built originally on the principle of financing more of europe with the same money. then came two rounds of intergovernmental wrangling, with herman van rompuy and josé manuel barroso doing their best to reconcile the positions of the member states, which were further apart than ever because of these exceptional circumstances. finally, parliament joined the action and i can understand the house’s frustration. it was not that easy under the treaty conditions to react to the unanimous decision of the member states and a deal made between 28 member states. therefore, i really acknowledge the intelligent, pragmatic and finally successful approach of parliament in the way it worked to improve the architecture of the financial framework for seven-year periods. it was not just about the mff, but also about the most pressing needs of 2013 and about the high-level group on own resources, to be set up this year in order to reflect on better, more transparent ways of financing the european budget in future. therefore, once more i acknowledge that intelligent, successful approach, the personal involvement of president schulz, and the role played by the committee on budgets and alain lamassoure and the negotiating team. i think this is a crowning moment also for the lithuanian presidency. once again, i acknowledge the personal involvement of minister rimkūnas in the final hours of our negotiations on all the issues – 2013, the mff and the budget for 2014, the first budgetary year of the new financial perspective – at the meeting in november, in a conciliation that was not that easy. our role was that of facilitator, providing solutions and overcoming bottlenecks. therefore, the role of hervé jouanjean and my creative chef de cabinet, marc lemaître, also needs to be acknowledged. indeed, a long list of personalities have paved the way towards todayʼs agreement. as to the shape and architecture of this financial perspective, we do perhaps need more for a europe with enlarged competences, but parliament in its priorities was absolutely right in finding answers to the lower volumes. we have eur 40 billion less for the future than we have now. this has never happened before in the history of the european union. the right answer is flexibility, and this goes beyond special instruments such as flexibility instruments, as it is about global margins and payments and commitments. it was due to the efforts by parliament that we have that unusual flexibility, which is the right answer to the lower volumes for the future. there are also clear novelties in the budget, and therefore there is decent modernisation of the budget. by this i mean the connecting europe facility, which is about a europe that is still badly connected, and the youth employment initiative as means of mass access to finance via the blending of various resources including the capacities of the european investment bank. despite the lower volumes, we have reinforced erasmus and reinforced research and development and some external policy instruments. above all, the multiannual framework is about predictability, and about stability of investment over seven years. this is a value in itself amidst the uncertainty of the europe of today. this is a real value delivered to europe. above all, our agreement – hopefully to be adopted today – is evidence that the european institutions are working, and that the consensus machine of the european union is functioning and delivering. i therefore think this is a good day for europe.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe 2020 has set us very ambitious and beautiful goals, many of them copied from the lisbon strategy, which we failed to achieve in 2010. will we be able to achieve these goals in 2020 with the proposed financial framework, or will we rewrite them for 2030? unfortunately, the budget was shaped by the mentality of the crisis in europe and by populists who took advantage of it to achieve their own political goals, but it is still better to have a reduced budget than no budget at all. the european budget is an investment instrument and as such must be able to be used in the best possible way in the european regions. national and local authorities in the member states are called upon to ensure this effective uptake. by 2020, all countries in the european union, and especially the backward ones, which unfortunately include my country bulgaria, must reach the current average living standard in europe. this budget is a breath of fresh air for local government, especially for the poorest regions, such as the north-west in the bulgarian regions. i am glad that certain conditions which parliament has insisted on have been accepted: mid-term review, flexibility in spending, own resources and unity and transparency of the budget. this will ensure a budget that is functional, consistent and more responsive to the needs of citizens and businesses in the european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, i know that the budget is a very good topic for discussing and defending the political positions of the groups. it is also a very good moment to take responsibilities. all the colleagues who claim – and i would support very much what the commissioner said – that there is no result from the negotiations between parliament and the council have simply missed the last nine months in parliament. we have achieved many more improvements and structural changes to the european budget. yes, it is true that we are not happy with the size of it. however, i am sure that this is the time to start working and looking ahead and i would like to inform the commission and the council of this. the margins are not enough and the council has to be prepared to react outside the budget, with additional resources, to new circumstances that may appear. these own resources are an absolute must – not only the establishment of the working group but also the result in 2016 – and parliament is going to insist on this. the payments have to be secured and we are going to keep insisting on that. the council and the commission have to make the european added value of the budget much more visible and we are going to make sure that at the mid-term review, the value of the european budget is much more visible than it is now. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues that i had the privilege to work with: alain lamassoure, jean-luc dehaene, reimer böge, anne e. jensen, the commission and several councils where we reached this agreement and, of course, i would thank my group very much for the support i have had during all that time.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i speak on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, eider gardiazábal, who is on the way to strasbourg right now. of course, we cannot be happy with the size of the budget, and i think we are going to have this conversation over the next seven years given the financial framework that we have agreed. but i think that, within this constraint, the positive fact is that parliament was able to restore commitment levels to the level proposed in the draft budget by the commission, and we did not allow a decrease. we have a slight increase in some important areas such as the digital agenda, the social dialogue, micro-finance and issues that help the recovery of the economy, as well as humanitarian aid and the palestine allocations, which are important to us. the big problem, though, in next year’s budget is in the level of payments. despite the fact that we have succeeded in increasing by eur 500 million the initial council position, we all know that the payments are not going to be enough next year. so when we insist on reflecting this, using the flexibility instrument or the contingency margin, we are absolutely sure that next year we will have to have recourse to it. as the presidency mentioned, we are going to stick very much to the declaration which has been adopted by the two institutions. the european union has to pay all the bills that are put on the table. that means that next year the council has to be ready to have recourse to all the instruments of the mff, including the contingency and the flexibility instruments, if such need arises, and this is going to be very important for parliament.
in writing. − i give my consent to the draft council regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020. i believe that the report covers all aspects, that the budgetary adjustments are justified and that the need for a sufficient degree of predictability for the preparation and implementation of medium-term investments over the duration of the mff is taken into account. following the european parliament elections in 2016, a review will be carried out, which will allow the institutions, including the european parliament elected in 2014, to reassess priorities.
in writing. - i voted against this report not because i am against the interinstitutional agreement between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, but because i believe that there is a need to increase transparency and to ensure a democratic procedure that allows and guarantees the presence of representatives of all the political groups of the parliament at all stages of the negotiations. i hope that the committee on budgets, in cooperation with the committee on constitutional affairs, will draw the necessary conclusions and proposals before the post-electoral review in 2016 on the terms and conditions for such negotiations, so as to ensure the democratic and transparent nature of the whole budgetary process.
in writing. - i welcome the scholz report, as it takes account of the benefits of the amendment: the public procurement agreement (ppa) seeks, through several explicit provisions, to meet the objectives of establishing a fair level playing field, while providing sufficient scope for policy decisions and diversity, environmental protection, etc. in addition, i would like to note that the revision of the ttber improves its core text, which sets out the rules for conducting tenders by ensuring a higher level of clarity and transparency. the amendment also includes an extended scope a package of additions to market access.
in writing. - i fully support mrs. park's proposal. as a representative of a member state with an outstanding contribution in the field of sport, i consider education and training to be key elements of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as of the integrated guidelines for the economic and employment policies of the member states, and with a view to improving skills and tackling high levels of youth unemployment in many member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague doris pack's report because it is a very good report, which will achieve both the objectives of streamlining programmes and more transparency, while showing the eu's strong commitment to youth and mobility. the report, in addition to proposing a clear structure, has improved the financing facilities for young people on the move: fairer grants based on the cost of living and living expenses in the destination countries, and a guarantee instrument for master's loans, without parental or third-party guarantee. these are practical arrangements that encourage young people. the report also has the merit of taking into account the need for better matching between higher education and the professional world with knowledge alliances and sectoral alliances. this is particularly important in the fight against youth unemployment in the future.
in writing. − i voted for the proposed texts because erasmus+ is a successful extension of one of the most popular and effective european union programmes in the field of education, culture and youth mobility. the increased budget of the programme for the period 2014-2020 will ensure that more than 4 million europeans in various levels of education can benefit from the chance to improve their knowledge and language skills in another member state. one of the important achievements of the new programme is the creation of a european facility for granting loans on favourable terms to students wishing to pursue master's degrees in other eu countries. the erasmus programme is one of the symbols of a united europe for young people, and i feel a personal responsibility to help make it a reality through my work. more than 11 000 bulgarians have taken the opportunity to join the programme over the last 15 years, which speaks to its popularity in bulgaria, as well as the need for it to be continued and developed. moreover, the educational opportunities provided, the inclusion in traineeship programmes and the improved chances of future professional realisation remain more than adequate in the face of rising youth unemployment across the european union.
madam president, we talk more about the economy, finance and the restrictions regime, but we often forget that the fundamental values of the european union are first and foremost our cultural identity and one of the union's most important messages: unity in diversity. the integration of the existing cultural programmes into a single creative europe is the right approach to help us meet the europe 2020 objectives. the ongoing social fragmentation and the difficulties faced by cultural industries create risks of accumulating cultural poverty in younger generations. we need to provide certainty for the creative industries in several ways: faster and easier access to the tools of the cultural programme; certainty that cultural skills are essential to europe's vision and to enhancing its competitiveness; support for intercultural dialogue: i would draw attention to the need for stronger support for living culture, for the promotion of cultural and historical heritage, because the added value they create will overcome scepticism, rising nationalist sentiments and the construction of dividing lines between states and peoples.
in writing. − one of the main objectives of each eu member state should be to preserve cultural diversity and national identity - something that is particularly important for us as bulgarians. it was therefore a pleasure for me to support the 'programme europe' report. the general objectives of the programme are to preserve and promote europe's cultural and linguistic diversity and to enhance the competitiveness of the sector. the programme will also contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. i note as very important the building of links between the cultural and audiovisual sectors by creating a horizontal direction that will help them to deal with the current global challenges: the fragmentation of the european market generated by linguistic and cultural diversity, the need to adapt to globalisation and the transition to digitalisation, the lack of comparable data and the difficulties of smes in the cultural and creative sectors to access credit, all of which require action at union level.
in writing. − i voted 'abstention' on the report by ms takula, not only because of the legal basis, which does not give parliament the power to amend the text of the legislative proposal, but also because of the intention to increase the budget for this programme, which aims to finance cultural and historical initiatives, support activities related to overcoming discrimination and the development of civil society, the participation of young people, women and minority groups in democratic activity (development of the non-governmental sector), at a time when budgetary constraints are foreseen. as a representative of a member state in an exceptional financial crisis, i find this inappropriate. however, i support the idea that the council should discuss the budget proposed by the commission, and the budget will be discussed when the multiannual financial framework is over.
in writing. i voted against this report with my colleagues to allow the adoption of the programme proposed by the commission, because european citizens need this programme as early as 2014. despite the tight budget and the chosen legal basis, which simply excludes the only institution directly elected by the european citizens that this very programme is aimed at, it is a very good programme, particularly important for the future of the eu. it is about bringing european citizens closer to the reality of the eu, but also bringing european citizens closer to each other, relying on memory as a common foundation for planning for the future through projects that promote citizens' participation in shaping europe. the european institutions must be made accessible, but every citizen must also be encouraged to take up his rights and duties as a citizen. i am also pleased that the council has taken into account two key elements proposed by parliament: intercultural dialogue in the objectives of the programme and geographical balance in its management.
in writing. − the report on the connecting europe facility is clear and reasoned, and i therefore fully support it. in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to stimulate job creation, the union needs modern and high-performance infrastructure that contributes to the connectivity and integration of the union and all its regions, in particular in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications. this is a prerequisite for greater economic, social and territorial cohesion, and modernisation will indeed help to enhance the free movement of people, goods, capital and ideas by facilitating cross-border links. the connecting europe facility will contribute to the objective of growth and competitiveness: by providing the public transport engineering sector with the means to implement infrastructure projects; by stimulating research, technology transfer and development (financial and operational) in these sectors; by providing the eu with sound, efficient and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that contribute to the global competitiveness of the eu economy, to the harmonious and integrated functioning of the union by improving economic, social and environmental performance and territorial integration.
in writing. − i support mr kumutsakos' report because the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the key eu projects, it is the foundation of the common market, it is essential for the mobility of eu citizens, for economic, social and territorial cohesion and for the creation of economic growth and jobs. the road route via carpathia (thessaloniki, sofia, kalafat, lugoj, timisoara, arad, oradea, debrecen, miskolc, kosice, zhechov, lublin, białystok, kaunas, klaipeda and lugoj, sibiu, piteš, bucharest, constanta and sofia, plovdiv, svilengrad and zhechov, chernivtsi, suceava, bucharest) is added to the list of transport corridors and is of the utmost importance for bulgaria.
in writing. − a number of legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics confer implementing powers on the commission in respect of some of the provisions of these legislative acts. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to align those implementing powers with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i regard the vote on this report as a routine procedure, with the general aim of all legislation to remove all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by the end of the seventh parliamentary term. the aim is to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context.
in writing. − i welcome the report on the amendment of articles 25 and 26 of the convention on the conservation and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes. the entry into force of the amendments will be of particular relevance for countries bordering the unece area, such as afghanistan, china, iran and certain central asian countries, and will contribute to the extension of the scope of this instrument beyond the unece countries. i consider it extremely important to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water by countries outside the unece region as well. the european community participated in the 2003 meeting of the parties which adopted the amendment allowing any un member state to accede to the convention after approval by the parties, the european parliament has also already expressed its support, so the vote is almost formal.
in writing. − recognising the economic motivation of the remek report and the benefits for member states such as bulgaria, i voted in favour of it. in addition to developing fusion energy production, it aims to support research activities on radiation protection, the development of future fusion technologies and power plants, and to promote innovation and the competitiveness of the sector. but in addition, i would like to note that the fusion programme should do further research into the socioeconomic, environmental and safety issues associated with the introduction of fusion as a future energy source to be included in the energy mix.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i find that this report contains many good ideas, such as improving working conditions and providing appropriate education and training for researchers, ensuring greater involvement of the european parliament in the discussions and decisions taken on the euratom programme, promoting the attractiveness of the research profession in the union. i think that the report focuses on measures to prevent skills shortages in the union or 'brain drain' from the union to third countries, which is very important. attention is also paid to the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in research and its market realisation. in addition, it is envisaged that programmes aimed at increasing current and planned innovative research will be extended to include nuclear research in their list of applicable research categories. i think the proposal is sensible and contains important improvements to the original ec text.
in writing. − i supported the report on supporting the decommissioning of nuclear facilities in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia because it offers results that are appropriate to the situation in the individual member states and directly addresses the situation in my country. the final burial of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste is a serious problem and needs to be addressed a fact that i argue as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria a country with old nuclear reactors that the international community has concluded are too old and could not be economically upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards. the operation of nuclear facilities is a major problem and needs a quick solution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption by a large majority of the report on support for decommissioning programmes at the kozloduy, bohunice and ignalina nuclear power plants can only be welcomed. because it is the fulfillment of the eu's commitments since the three countries' accession to the union, when they were forced to prematurely stop nuclear capacity, which created negative consequences for the energy of the three countries and a too serious, even unbearable financial burden. i regret to note that the new regulation adopted will end the possibility of financing projects under the so-called non-nuclear window, which in previous periods contributed significantly to the rehabilitation of the energy grid and the replacement plants. decommissioning is a long process for which there is insufficient experience. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. in this regard, i welcome the realistic flexibility envisaged in the report on the mid-term and final evaluation of the programme's implementation in terms of newly created indicators, including a clear assessment at the end of the programme of whether additional resources will be needed in the future over and above the national funding provided.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, colleagues, the draft regulations we are discussing today must deliver real results for the people. it has practical dimensions, and one of them is the danube strategy. in april, the european commission identified a clear potential in the first phase of its implementation. european citizens along the danube know that there is a strategy and an action plan, they comment and discuss ideas, but they are not aware of funding opportunities. in the more than two years since the strategy was implemented, they have not seen any real change in its priorities. the parties are not yet ready and do not have any proposals for an updated and specific transnational cooperation programme for the danube region, as the european commission shares the view. while we are talking about sustainable development, smart specialisation and social innovation, in the poorest regions of the union along the danube, people live on less than €200 a month. these people are covered by the europe 2020 targets for poverty reduction and should be a priority for cohesion. the entire package of documents on regional policy, cohesion and social funds, together with the technical assistance funds for the danube strategy under the multiannual financial framework to 2020, should be used rationally as an investment instrument to give a strong impetus to the establishment and implementation of the programme for the danube region. the specific regulation on european territorial cooperation can contribute to accelerating joint actions between the danube countries, between actors at national, regional and local level with enhanced assistance from the commission for its promotion and initial implementation. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, i take this opportunity to ask you a question, mrs hussmanova, about what you said about the danube strategy. in bulgaria, we all know that the vidin region, which is part of the danube region, is the poorest region in the entire european union. recently, to overcome this problem, a second bridge was built over the danube, the vidin-kalafat. what do you think about the fact, however, that there is absolutely no road built to this bridge and there is no infrastructure for the development of this region? what do you think about this and what action do you think the commission should take?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. it's hardly a question i have to answer, but what i think is that unfortunately five of the least developed regions in europe are in bulgaria and one of them is the danube region and in this sense not only the national authorities but also the european commission should support the efforts so that we can equalise the minimum standard of living of all european citizens
mr president, as we have said, the regions of bulgaria are at the bottom of the european union. the six bulgarian regions are the poorest in the entire european union. - the poorest, the north-west region, is 10 times poorer than the richest region and it is at the absolute bottom of all bulgarian regions. what has changed in the last seven years in regional and cohesion policy, do you know, ladies and gentlemen? you don't know because absolutely nothing has changed in those seven years. how can we expect that in the next seven years, when, and this is particularly evident from the speech of the previous speaker, the large member states are increasingly pulling the rug over themselves? in bulgaria, the only thing people see from the european union are restrictions, requirements and nothing else. until a few months ago, bulgaria, which is much poorer than italy, was also on the negative side in its contributions and what it received from the european union. how can i convince people, commissioner, of the european solidarity? (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. nistelrooy, tell that to the people in the northwest region who go to work for clothes, for old clothes they go to work, they're not even paid, tell them that there's an increase in competitiveness for the use of funds. and what is in the seized, people see it leaked, thanks to a huge corruption and a huge part of the seized funds in bulgaria go into the hands of god-chosen companies. and then what part of the funds goes back to somewhere, nobody knows and the commission just waves a finger with some ridiculous reports.
mr president, let me commend the efforts of our rapporteurs, mrs krehl and mr van nistelrooij, and the whole negotiating team for their hard work and persistence in their negotiations with the council and the commission. as a result of this, cohesion policy legislation for the next period seems to be fairer and less complicated, thanks to parliament’s role. yes, there are critical points but i feel that we have reached the optimal result at this stage and should support it. the input of cohesion policy is priceless for the less-developed european regions and highly beneficial for our citizens. however in order to achieve tangible results, it is necessary for all stakeholders at all levels to work in partnership. that is why i call on the member states and the relevant authorities to draw up suitable programming documents and rules allowing timely and smooth implementation of the projects, better spending and the reaching of policy objectives. we should look into the future and we should rely on our efforts to control the whole process.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i hope that the new cohesion policy can be more easily adapted to the specific needs of the regions. at the same time, policy measures will complement each other, thereby enhancing their impact and achieving our core objectives of growth and jobs, on which the well-being of european citizens depends. the rules you have negotiated, ladies and gentlemen, allow development funds to be absorbed efficiently and rapidly by the european regions. unfortunately, in my country, bulgaria, where the need for european funds for regional development is crying out, preparations for the new programming period have stalled in recent months. in its attempts to extract political dividends from european funds, the current bulgarian government cannot guarantee the rapid launch of new operational programmes. here are some of the most alarming signals: fear-mongering among the bulgarian administration through the prime minister's statements about firing anti-government protesters, leading to demotivation; nothing is being done to inform bulgarian citizens and businesses about the possibilities of the new programs and their rules; there is concern that the oresharski government is putting forward priorities and potential projects targeting municipalities run by parties in the coalition. the next programming period is a chance for bulgaria to catch up. maximising the use of european solidarity funds is a key priority and all efforts at national, regional and local level should be directed towards this.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, your vote tomorrow will be a landmark on the road to effective gender equality in europe because the directive we are debating today will help to smash the glass ceiling that prevents qualified women from holding top posts in listed companies. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, evelyn regner and rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, as well as their shadow rapporteurs. they have done excellent work leading to a solid compromise. i have been closely following your discussions: the positive opinions from the imco, empl and econ committees and the joint report of the femm and juri committees, which has been adopted by such a large majority. now i would like to tell you that the europe-wide debate on this issue, which we launched together three years ago, has already led to improvements: women now make up 16.6% of directors compared to 11.8% in october 2010. this is a european average of course. without the debate which we launched three years, which was neutered by a call for self-regulation and which was followed by the report showing that self-regulation did not work and was in turn followed by the legislative proposal which led to the political and social discussion in all our member states about this proposal and then finally to the work led by the ep we would not now have had this five percentage point increase of female board members in listed companies in the last three years. but still, 16.6% is far from the balance we want and need to achieve. not only is this a waste of talent, it is also a missed opportunity to make better decisions leading to better financial results in the highest bodies of our listed companies. we all know that there are important economic arguments for this proposal. making use of female talent improves companies’ results. studies from many economic organisations or companies, such as ernst&young and crédit suisse – and dozens of others coming to the same results – show that companies with a higher share of women at top levels deliver stronger organisational and financial performance. more women in management positions provide a broader insight into economic behaviour, into consumers’ choices, leading to market share gains. diversity among board members boosts creativity and innovation and contributes to better performance because decisions are based on evaluating a wider range of options. your proposal will help to bring about change by obliging listed companies to take the procedural measures enabling them to attain the objective of the directive, a share of at least 40 per cent of the under-represented sex among non-executive directors. your proposal guarantees that only women who are very qualified will be given priority in selection for appointment and that will lead to better quality for men and women in selection for appointment. the proposal strikes the right balance between fast progress on the one hand and merit as a decisive criterion for holding board positions on the other hand. i welcome the fact that your report largely follows the spirit of the commission proposal and would like to support the approach you take on smes. whilst they remain exempted from obligations under the directive, member states would need to put in place policies to support and incentivise smes to significantly improve gender balance on their boards and management. i also welcome your ideas on detailing further the procedural obligations in order to achieve the 40%-objective as well as on reinforcing the reporting obligations. however, i am more cautious concerning the strengthening of sanctions as suggested in some of the amendments. under the commission proposal, member states’ responses must be effective, dissuasive and proportionate. to impose automatically one or more particular type of sanctions for any non-compliance could be disproportionate, but i leave this to the wisdom of the council and the parliament when it comes to the negotiation about the text. we know that the so-called glass ceiling prevents women from realising their full professional potential. it also prevents companies from using all talents available and becomes a risk for their competitiveness. this is a price that our society and our economy cannot afford to pay any more, most of all not in times of economic hardship. most of all not in times of looming demographic crisis. europe needs all talent on board, be it male or be it female. so let the adoption of this report be a signal to the council that progress on this dossier is urgently needed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, first i would like to thank my colleagues for the incredibly hard work they have done on this report. as a rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), i would like to stress that we very much welcome the commission’s proposal. we are a committee that, in the light of various statistics, facts and evidence, supported this proposal. we see the directive as a key instrument in achieving financial stability and long-term economic growth. in terms of the current economic environment, as numerous qualitative studies have demonstrated, there is a positive relationship between gender diversity at top-management level and a company’s financial performance and profitability. women have proved to be very valuable; better gender balance contributes to better business performance, improved competitiveness and economic gains. increased female representation on the boards of publicly listed companies in the union is not only related to the principle of gender equality and non-discrimination, but also to a positive impact on the organisational and financial performance of companies concerned. as a rapporteur in imco, i would like to stress that not utilising the potential of half of europe’s population for company board positions might slow down the development of our economy, the recovery of our financial structures and harnessing of the capacity of the available human capital.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou and mrs regner, as well as all the other committees, for the long work they have done on this text. we would have preferred not to have had to resort to legislative provisions, but at the rate things are going, on the basis of the goodwill of economic actors, we know it will take another 40 years to achieve some semblance of gender balance in senior positions in large companies. this is a matter of concrete measures to promote women's participation in economic decision-making. this is a pragmatic text proposed by the european parliament. firstly, we have been able to remain reasonable by keeping smes out of the scope of the directive. we are particularly concerned with the establishment of transparent and non-discriminatory appointment and election procedures rather than with the quota itself. we will thus allow women to break the glass ceiling without having to suffer the disadvantage of women's quotas. it should also be noted that by focusing the sanctions on the mandatory procedures rather than on the 40% figure for women, a more positive dynamic for gender equality is established. these two key elements help us to advance gender equality without penalising businesses. it's just as important! tomorrow we can say that the european parliament has done its part. it is now up to the member states to roll up their sleeves and put into practice the commitments they have made to gender equality in europe. i hope that the leading countries, which already have national provisions of this kind, will be able to convince their neighbours to take this step forward. in conclusion, let me remind you that promoting gender equality is not just a women's issue. in these times of crisis, who wants to do without the human capital that all these women represent, trapped by this glass ceiling? this will benefit all european citizens and the european economy. that is exactly what they expect of us - actions, not vows or promises!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it was a pleasure to work with both rapporteurs. i agree that we are now faced with the opportunity to make a historic breakthrough, our efforts will be justified. the european union is founded on the principle of dual legitimacy the legitimacy of decisions emanates both from the member states and from citizens. however, the protocol to the treaty of lisbon recognised that the seat of the institutions of the union is determined by common accord of the governments of the member states. this gives an advantage to the states over the citizens, thus breaking the principle of the union's dual legitimacy. and if the other institutions are shaped by national characteristics, the european parliament is directly elected by the citizens. this makes it a more specialised institution, with a function and a role different from those of national parliaments. today our institution is functioning in a complex situation, the parliament is equal to the co-legislating council, but its workload is many times greater, its polycentric structure makes our work considerably more difficult. it is this inconvenient and impractical situation that is provoking this debate, in which we are not just discussing the seat of one of the institutions, but are actually talking about how decisions are made in the union and what we want its legitimacy to be, especially in the light of the upcoming elections. the report of the committee on constitutional affairs, adopted by a large majority, clearly states that parliament should have the right to decide where and when to sit. that is the philosophy of the speakers, and i would like to congratulate them once again. the report is not about deciding whether brussels or strasbourg is the place. there is no call for neglecting one's role, no advance decision-making. the report calls for the european parliament to be given the right to organise itself, and such a cause is a just cause. it is well known that the requested change is complex and will require amendments to the treaties. but that's a technical issue. what european citizens need to hear is: do we want to have an effectively functioning union or are we willing to sacrifice pragmatism in the name of narrow national interests?
mr president, first of all, congratulations on the hard work of all colleagues and the european institutions. we wanted a fairer, greener and more flexible cap. some of our goals were achieved. we can congratulate the european parliament for its role in the process of defending the interests of european farmers. we also made good compromises: on direct payments, more flexibility between pillars, more production-related support. this is a good message for livestock farmers, vegetable growers and fruit growers. the most important thing is the young. the compulsory scheme for young farmers is a signal of our commitment to the future of european agriculture, because only through clear objectives, innovation and concrete actions can we keep young people in the sector. of course, there were also notes of disappointment. beekeepers, rose growers, tobacco growers could find a place in the first pillar, because it's about equity between sectors and jobs. but we must not be fatalistic. there is a rural development programme, there are voluntary schemes which allow national specificities to be adequately reflected. now i want to say this: the responsibility of the member states to make adequate decisions according to the needs of the sector is very great. they should identify measures that are effective in their implementation, in dialogue with farmers. this is the only way to achieve a more successful cap.
in writing. − colleagues, i supported the general regulation on the european structural and investment funds (esif), which creates a common strategic framework for all the funds with the aim of an integrated approach to their implementation, a focus on results, simplification of procedures and greater flexibility in spending. the esi funds remain the most important investment instruments in the new mff to reduce the burden on national budgets. i supported macroeconomic conditionality because financial discipline should not be weakened by the poor financial performance of certain member states and the fear of future financial corrections. the removal of such conditions is in favour of socialists who are inclined to policies of higher debt and deficit in the member states in order to implement populist measures with unsecured social costs. without clear rules and restrictive measures for non-compliance with macroeconomic conditionality, national governments will have no incentive to be disciplined, and those that are will find it difficult to overcome euroscepticism and explain to their citizens the reasons for their cuts and restrictions. the less developed economies, despite the temptation to increase debt and deficits, should achieve the catch-up effect of their economies, through european means, as a long-term investment to improve living conditions and quality of life. thank you, thank you!
in writing. − i voted for this report because it aims to simplify the complex administrative system for financing, managing and monitoring the cap, both for farmers and for the administrations themselves. the report focuses on new control and sanction systems, an early warning system and the reduction of control and risk associated with inspection procedures. it aims to reduce red tape and streamline the system of farm advisory boards. the cap monitoring and evaluation system and clearer rules on cross-compliance are taken into account. an important aspect of transparency in compliance is the principle of proportionality in the system of sanctions and checks. this is a new approach where action taken on infringements must be proportionate not only to the infringement committed but also to the degree of delay and the degree of responsibility of the farmer. at the same time, we have an early warning system in which beneficiaries are informed of the possibility of irregularities with the aim of not sanctioning but removing those irregularities. this will result in properly functioning control systems and a low error rate. that is why i voted for this report because it proposes clearer, simpler and more transparent rules for the financing, management and monitoring of the cap.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a model of rural development based on one of the main principles of the new cap: flexibility for member states and the possibility to adapt to their own specificities. in the national rural development programmes, the parties will have the possibility to identify those measures which will be most effective in their implementation. this is an expression of the solidarity of the european institutions with national realities, but it also represents a great responsibility for the member states, which must make appropriate decisions according to the needs of their specific sectors. we must not forget that much of the results will come from the way the rules laid down in the cap are implemented at national level. agroecological measures will be the focus of rural development programmes. it is important that they are successfully promoted among farmers in order to maximise the benefits of their application. the other basic principle of the cap, equity, is also enshrined by increasing the co-financing rates to 85% for the less developed and remote regions. that is why i voted for this report, because it contains measures which can be applied and targeted at the maximum number of farmers and regions.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more effective common organisation of agricultural markets. the report improves the functioning of the food chain by facilitating cooperation between farmers, interbranch organisations and producer organisations. the report focuses on crisis management, public intervention and private storage, which are key instruments for regulating disturbances in agricultural markets. the scheme for aid to the most deprived, which is set out in a separate instrument, and the scheme for the supply of fruit at school shall continue. by doing so, we are sending key messages to those who need our attention the most - the most needy and the children. a mechanism to regulate vine planting until 2030 has been adopted. the current system of planting rights will be replaced by the system of planting authorisations, which is again a tool for exercising control in the sector. we have managed to take action against the industrialisation of production, the destabilisation of the market and a commitment to preserving the reputation of quality of eu wines. as regards the beekeeping sector, two additional specific support measures are added to the existing six in the national programmes: market surveillance and improvement of product quality in order to exploit the potential of the products on the market. this shows the willingness to scale up actions to improve the sector's situation. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a step in the right direction to protect european producers and european production.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more flexible, fairer, green and young-oriented common agricultural policy. the report reflects most of the objectives of the european parliament, which in the negotiation process has taken the position of protecting european farmers. at the same time, this report allows member states greater flexibility to find effective solutions according to their own agricultural structures and agro-economic conditions. the greater flexibility between the pillars, the greater amount of coupled support, is a good message for livestock farmers, vegetable growers and fruit growers. another particularly important focus is on the young. we have sent a signal of our commitment to the future of european agriculture. only through clear objectives, innovation and concrete actions can we keep young people in the sector. that is our primary duty. that is why i voted for this report, because i think it provides a good basis for meeting the challenges, both at pan-european level and in each member state individually.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the necessary basis for a gradual and smooth transition to the new cap. as regards direct payments, it was important that some of the elements agreed as part of the overall cap reform could enter into force on 1 january 2014. these are the possibility for member states to transfer funds between the two pillars of the cap, the possibility to grant a redistributive payment to small producers, and the application of the new rules on transitional national aid in member states applying the single area payment scheme. the provision of an opportunity to increase coupled support and to exempt small farmers from financial discipline is a step in the right direction. in the context of rural development, it was important to reach a compromise that would allow the smooth continuation of the current rural development schemes in view of the transition between the existing and the new mff. that is why i voted for this report because it is the necessary link between the old and the new eu cap.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the horizon 2020 rapporteurs, thanks to whom the new programme will develop science for the benefit of society and the competitiveness of the european economy. i am pleased that the emphasis is increasingly shifting not only to efficiency but also to the efficient use of funds. i welcome the commission's administrative simplification measures, which do not come at the expense of effective control and allow for more effective participation of young scientists and potential beneficiaries from central and eastern europe. however, the following three challenges remain on the agenda: first, the equalization of the salaries of scientists in order to achieve an open and attractive european labour market with flexible mobility, which is not only from the periphery to the centre, i.e. from the new to the old member states. secondly, access for scientists from the new member states to the network already established by the old member states. all potential boundaries between european scientists must be overcome in order to develop the full innovative potential of the european economy. third, more synergy and coherence of systems between horizon 2020 and the structural funds to achieve a 'multiplier effect', i.e. a higher return on investment for every euro invested, with tangible positive effects on the economy and citizens' daily lives. in conclusion, we must not allow horizon 2020 to become a one-way street from the periphery to the centre and a brain drain outside the european union.
madam president, horizon 2020 is both an achievement and a major challenge for the european union. smart, inclusive and sustainable growth can only be achieved by seriously mobilising and integrating the community's scientific, educational and industrial resources. this is particularly important in the context of insufficient funds. as we look at horizon 2020 as a package, we should also look at the challenges that will accompany its implementation: the real simplification of procedures to widen the scope and the boundaries of participation, especially by the new member states; to create conditions for the dissemination, application and multiplication of scientific products by creating research transfer exchanges; ensure equal understanding and legal protection for innovations, which will create a level playing field and accelerate their implementation; protect intellectual property; it also develops public-private partnerships, promotes national policies and legislation. it is particularly important to create conditions for the enhancement of competitiveness by small and medium-sized enterprises.
madam president, small and mediumsized enterprises in bulgaria face three main difficulties in relation to the european funds. the first is the question of influence peddling, because if your small firm has no connections somewhere at any level of government, it has absolutely no chance of getting its project approved and i urge you, commissioner, to do a thorough check and see how european projects are distributed and whether there are small businesses that are not connected to the government and how difficult it is for them to get funding. the second problem is the political-economic mafia that racketeers businesses in order to fill the party's black coffers. and the third problem is the racket of the banks, who blackmail small entrepreneurs, impose conditions and contractors on them, as they please, to such an extent that recently in my country a bank employee was murdered by a man who was racked, or at least so he claims, by his bank for carrying out a european project. that's what i wanted to tell you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis has affected the issues of employment, confidence, motivation and the choice of young people to stay in europe. developing entrepreneurial spirit and skills is one of the most sustainable ways to tackle youth unemployment. in the short term, this will create new jobs, and in the long term, it will bring about structural changes in the labour market, more flexibility and added value for the european union economy. the 'entrepreneurship 2020' plan should therefore be implemented targetedly among young people in three main directions: first, to change the perception of entrepreneurship by overcoming the culture of fear of failure. to this end, entrepreneurship training and practice and presentation skills should be integrated into the curricula and mentoring, career guidance and training schemes for unemployed young people should be established. second, each member state should take measures to reduce the administrative burden of starting a business. third, financial support should be provided at the initial stage of the business idea via tax breaks and/or access to lower-cost financing.
in writing. colleagues, the recovery of the european economy and its competitiveness requires support for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, which account for 60% of new jobs created. the enterprise competitiveness programme and the entrepreneurship action plan to 2020 aim to restore the entrepreneurial spirit in europe, which is seriously lagging behind the us and even emerging economies. the main challenges facing smes and entrepreneurship are access to capital, access to markets and over-bureaucracy. each of the cosme, erasmus+, horizon 2020 programmes includes lending mechanisms, but access to risk capital is particularly important, as setting up smes is a risky undertaking. unfortunately, there are no measures to activate the dormant capital held in deposits in banks. smes' access to markets, especially emerging markets, should be encouraged through active action by institutions and governments, which unfortunately is not well represented in the programmes to support entrepreneurs. overregulation and overburdened bureaucratic procedures are often insurmountable barriers to starting a small business. clear indicators are needed to reduce administrative burdens and to stop the constant changes in legislation. however, the adopted documents for the period 2014-2020 will inject oxygen into smes and start-up entrepreneurship.
ladies and gentlemen, every significant achievement in european integration is the fruit of long-term development and evolution in views and policies. the stage for more political and military integration has arrived, and the upcoming council is a definite test of political wisdom. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to three main points: first, ten years after the last eu security strategy, the council should launch a process of strategic re-thinking of the security environment with a new timeframe and political guidelines to reach a consensus among member states on the prioritisation of eu threats and objectives. the process should aim to generate support and a more open dialogue with european citizens. secondly, it is necessary to build full trust between member states in order to implement the pooling and sharing initiative. the creation of a 'european defence semester' would further streamline the use of national defence resources with a european dimension in mind. third, the crisis is an occasion to launch initiatives, not to postpone them. therefore, operational efficiency, defence capabilities and the european defence industry should be at the centre of the strategic debate.
mr. chairman, i'd like to say three things in this debate: first of all, i think it's clear to everyone that mistakes don't mean abuses. however, the errors should be brought to the attention of the taxpayers in the respective countries. they are not a waste of european money, they are a waste of national resources which must compensate for the mistakes made with european money, and here the commission should rather say what measures it is taking to ensure that european taxpayers do not lose money through the european budget and that the national authorities are engaged in this matter. second question: the focus of the report being presented. i am really grateful and i would also like to tell the president of the european court of auditors about the volume and the scale of this report. but i think that periodically we should review the focus of the annual report. and this focus review should make the report useful to us. the change in methodology, including the different allocations of funds over the seven years of the financial period, makes it impossible to simply compare from year to year, and i see that a lot of people are misled by that. maybe there should be a panel, a review panel, that periodically reviews what and how it's included in the annual report. last but not least, i think this is the most important. it is not the first time that you have indicated in your report that there is a problem with the stability of the european budget, more so in the payments area. indeed, the commitments made in the european budget are becoming increasingly difficult to meet. at the end of last year, there were 16 billion unpaid bills, and it's expected that by the end of this year, despite the extraordinary efforts of the parties, there will be 20 billion. it is obvious that the system of national budgeting of contributions to the european budget must also be changed, and i hope that the european court of auditors, in addition to identifying this problem, which is extremely serious, will be involved in changing the system, improving it, so that the european budget is stable and every euro that is committed is paid.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank parliament for debating roma inclusion strategies today. also, on behalf of my colleague commissioner reding, i am very proud to announce that the council adopted today, with unanimity, the first european legal text on roma inclusion – the recommendation on effective roma integration measures in the member states. this is a big achievement. it means that the need to act in a coordinated way has finally been widely recognised by all member states. so this is a success for the commission, which put this proposal on the table, but it is also a success for the european parliament, which has always been very supportive of an eu approach to roma inclusion. it is also a signal of hope for the roma population everywhere in europe. the european parliament now needs to give its consent to the text and i am sure that it will do that swiftly. this council recommendation is the first legal instrument within the european framework for national roma integration strategies. it strengthens the european framework by providing guidance to member states in the four key areas of education, employment, housing and health. it also calls on member states to take effective measures to combat anti-roma rhetoric and to better inform the roma about their rights and civic duties. member states are also encouraged to better support local and regional authorities, to facilitate transnational cooperation at all levels and to pay particular attention to the protection of children and women. in this context, i would like to thank ms járóka for taking up gender aspects in the national roma integration strategies. the commission considers gender equality to be a principle to be applied in all policy fields. the commission is well aware that roma women are particularly vulnerable. very often they are denied a fair chance on the labour market, equal access to education, healthcare and decent housing. some are victims of violence and exploitation, even within their own communities. this is why the situation of roma women is flagged up as being one of the cross-cutting issues in the council recommendation. the european commission has tried hard to ensure that european structural funds will be mobilised to boost national efforts to improve the social and economic situation of vulnerable groups, but member states are unfortunately not yet making the best possible use of them. negotiations on the partnership agreements and operational programmes on the use of european structural and investment funds for the period 2014 until 2020 are still ongoing. in this context, the commission is particularly vigilant and recommends that member states include roma integration as a priority. the commission has also set up a network of national roma contact points in all eu member states. this network is proving to be very useful for the exchange of best practices and peer review of the implementation of the national strategies. in addition, the commission is in permanent contact with the member states, roma civil society and all the stakeholders involved in the process of roma integration. national reform programmes under the europe 2020 strategy are also being scrutinised for coherence with national roma integration strategies. where appropriate, reference to roma integration is made in the country-specific recommendations. hence, in 2013, the commission issued country-specific recommendations on the roma to five member states. finally, the commission’s enlargement strategy highlights the precarious situation of many roma in the western balkans. the commission is helping the enlargement countries to support integration of roma through the instrument of pre-accession assistance. the commission is currently implementing or planning projects with a total value of more than eur 50 million that could benefit the roma communities. the commission will continue to monitor the progress and implementation of the national strategies and report on its findings. on 4 april 2014 we will hold a european roma summit in brussels. roma integration must remain a european priority. it is one of the great challenges of our time. it puts our spiritual strength and europe’s cohesion to the test, so we have to do our very best to ensure good results.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, mrs clivetti, in relation to what you said about the patriarchal nature of roma society and that one of the main reasons young girls are not attending or are suspended from school is due to physical or mental violence mainly by their parents or their forced marriage, do you think that a suitable specific measure, as you said, would be, for example, an accelerated procedure for the withdrawal of parental rights when parents do not allow children to go to school, and i am speaking universally, not just in the roma case?
mr president, please note paragraph 65 of the report, because seven years ago i wrote an open letter to the rapporteur, mr jaroka, which provoked a very sharp and critical reaction. it is very interesting that what you called racism then, mrs. yaroka has now written, or at least its quintessence, in her report. thank you, madam speaker, for quoting me in this report. how could it be any different? isn't it when a human being goes from being dependent on one person to being dependent on another person for money that it's called "slavery"? can slavery be tolerated and can it be called a "minority tradition"? isn't it called pedophilia when you have sex with a minor? can pedophilia be tolerated and called a minority tradition? no, it can't, and i'm glad that mrs. yaroka wrote in her report, among many other things that were incorrect, that this can't be true. the solution to the problem is only one - just as all other peoples who suffered from similar barbaric traditions in the past have freed themselves from them, only the roma community can alone abandon this barbaric present in the future.
mr president, i call for an end to discriminatory treatment and speculation about a wave of migrants from bulgaria and romania, especially after the statement by british prime minister cameron that the free movement of people in the european union should be 'less free'. this approach creates negative stereotypes towards already legally resident bulgarians and romanians and shows political weakness to position themselves internally not through achievements, on the principle of fear and the negative campaign against european citizens. freedom of movement is a fundamental right. the uk cannot violate the eu treaties and benefit from the benefits of the european market. the data show that internal mobility within the european union has a positive effect on the economies of the member states, a large proportion of migrants are economically active, i.e. they migrate for work, and their impact on the social system is negligible, below 1%. bulgarians and romanians, who are not in the top 20 of the nationalities emigrating to the uk, are most often intelligent young people - an "economic bonus" that brings more taxes into its budget than the country pays in the form of social benefits.
in writing. madam president, the automotive industry is europe's largest industry and, as a whole, is of strategic importance to the european economy, providing almost 12 million direct and indirect jobs. given that this sector is currently facing serious problems related to stagnating demand in our markets and increasing competition from fast-growing external economies, we need to set the political direction for its sustainable development. moreover, considering factors such as the gradual change in the use of energy sources and the shift towards the digitisation of components and functions, a comprehensive rethink of our approach to mobility in the 21st century is needed. i believe that the resolution we are about to vote on reflects realistic objectives, the implementation of which will bring added value to the european automotive industry. the text sets out guidelines such as increasing competitiveness, investing in research and new technologies, and qualifying human resources, among others. i am glad that the resolution is sufficiently broad and seeks solutions to problems of a diverse nature such as restructuring, overcapacity, easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises to capital markets. ladies and gentlemen, that is why i am fully in favour of this resolution and i urge you to vote in favour of it.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has also adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - mr president, the justice programme must serve us to defend the fundamental values of the european union, the first of which is equality between men and women. i would like to stress three aspects. first of all, it is about prevention, key word. the programme aims to prevent crime, particularly violence against women. there is a close link between justice and security, and everyone has the right to live in an area of justice and security. secondly, to facilitate access to justice. i know! but also better training of judicial and police staff to work with victims. it is our duty to build up trust in the judicial system and to make everyone aware of their rights and opportunities for justice. the third element is judicial cooperation. encouraging the exchange of good practice, improving the capacity to work together and establishing good practices in this area is essential, in particular to tackle the scourge of trafficking in human beings in europe, of which 60% of the victims are women. finally, the justice programme will enable european citizens to have access to a more efficient justice system by simplifying procedures and promoting their interests. it is up to us to see that it is implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is a text which takes the eu a step further towards creating a european area of justice. the proposed legislative measures are necessary and essential tools for the effective enforcement of legislation in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. this report follows up the new provisions of the lisbon treaty and the objectives set out in the stockholm programme. the justice programme is a follow-up to and a unification of the civil justice, criminal justice and drug prevention and information programmes. this confirms the eu's commitment to its citizens to facilitate access to justice and simplify procedures. finally, i am pleased that the report emphasizes equality between women and men, a fundamental european value to which i am committed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents the eu's efforts and commitment to defend and promote human rights as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the rights and citizenship programme follows on from and consolidates the fundamental rights and citizenship, daphne iii and the anti-discrimination and diversity and gender equality sections of the progress programme. the programme ensures better implementation of these programmes by simplifying their financing. violence against children, young people and women is a violation of fundamental rights. we must take firm and coordinated action to combat it. i therefore believe that the report rightly emphasizes the daphne programme. the success of this programme must serve as a blueprint for preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women and for promoting equality between women and men. finally, the programme has an added value in providing a better public awareness of their rights as european citizens.
mr president, i supported the report on the common fisheries policy because of the strong emphasis on regionalisation and 'regional participation in decision-making'. i am a representative of a maritime region of bulgaria and for the people of the bulgarian black sea coast this accent is extremely important. it is important that detailed technical rules in the different maritime regions are regulated in a decentralised manner and with the active participation of stakeholders working in the maritime areas. this mechanism should be translated into national strategies and plans. the bulgarian fisheries structures look forward to the next consultations with the commission on the establishment of the black sea advisory body. it will certainly play an important role in the development of the region, in reaching consensus, in providing a boost to blue growth based on black sea interaction. the black sea, as an eu border, is an important area and we expect a stimulus for development with the support of the european maritime and fisheries fund.
mr. chairman, of course i voted in favour of the mortgage credit directive. it was high time to start something that i campaigned on in my election campaign, namely regulation of the banking sector, which would now also apply to mortgages, because these mortgages, as we all know, relate to a fundamental, one might even say human right the right to own a home, to own a home and thus to a decent life. there is a huge amount of arbitrariness at the moment by banks that are seriously suspected of being in a cartel and imposing horrendous conditions on their customers. consumers have no legal means of objecting to this because they are presented with huge long contracts with very thin text, which have huge penalties that citizens cannot afford. they are also somewhat illegal and ultimately many hundreds of thousands of families in bulgaria, across the european union are in danger of losing their homes and therefore their decent way of life. that's why i voted for the directive to curb these bad practices.
mr president, i voted against the resolution adopted by the majority in the european parliament today on the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights, because the proposals in the estrella report were of great public interest and did not concern women only. sexual and reproductive health and rights should be ensured and protected for every living being at every stage of life. i regret that in the second decade of the 21st century the european parliament adopted a conservative resolution. we need to treat women's rights with respect, including sexual and reproductive health, the right to sexual education, the protection of young women and mothers, protection against sexual assault and violence, the right of women to plan their own lives, the right to privacy. to this right, the whole of society must be sympathetic. the estrella report has raised extremely important issues that cannot be delayed: educational programmes, measures to work with young underage mothers, future mothers to provide support to deal with the problems of early motherhood, measures to prevent forced early marriages that cause severe psychological and sexual harm to the young girls affected.
mr president, i voted in favour of the alternative resolution, which effectively rejected the estrella report. i want to tell you about a very interesting experience of my own. for the first time, at last, at the very end of this mandate, i felt like a member of parliament who is not only defending the national interests of his own country, although i am sitting in this group where we are united these members of parliament. i felt for the first time as a representative of european citizens, standing up for the common european values that are embedded in the healthy, family, traditional values of our continent, which have made our continent what it is in the field of tolerance. i am a husband and father myself, i take full responsibility for family planning for my family, i do not force my wife to take contraceptives and i fully respect her wishes regarding the future of our family. so i don't need a directive, and my child doesn't need a directive to teach him how to manage his sex life. i'm sure i can teach my child better than any government teacher who can put indoctrination in his head.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to encourage and create an enabling environment for volunteering in europe. the report presents in a clear and comprehensive way the main elements and results of the initiative 'european year of volunteering' launched in 2011. it is an initiative that extends the voluntary sector and strengthens solidarity and the democratic and pluralistic values that are at the heart of our european society. although the current economic crisis has posed some difficulties in its implementation, the good results and success of the project are evident. this initiative can thus serve as a lesson and as an incentive for member states to continue to give strong and stable support to volunteering activities. i am pleased that the report mentions the positive impact of volunteering activities in the fight against gender inequalities. i strongly support this fight in accordance with the fundamental european values which reject any kind of discrimination. finally, the adoption of this report by the european parliament sends a strong message about the positive impact of volunteering activities.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report on volunteering and voluntary activity, which seeks to promote its development in europe, its dissemination, the promotion of the fundamental values of solidarity and accessible participation by citizens. i supported mr scuria's report because i believe that a common structured and coordinated european approach to volunteering is needed, based on its multicultural dimension in the member states and a thorough analysis by the european commission of national volunteering practices and traditions. the creation of an enabling environment for the development of volunteering is possible through legislative regulation in the member states and through the reduction of the administrative burden on organisations in the field. at present, three countries - bulgaria, slovakia and slovenia - lack a legal framework for volunteering, 12 have one, and the rest regulate the sector through other existing general laws. i welcome the timeliness of the report, as volunteering helps to overcome one of the biggest challenges facing europe - youth unemployment and the structural mismatch between demand and supply in the labour market. volunteering helps to increase the mobility, social cohesion and competitiveness of young people in the labour market. it increases their chances of finding a job through the transversal skills acquired through volunteering.
mr president, after today’s debate we have to adopt the resolution addressing the eastern neighbourhood policy in a strategic way based on realities. extreme reactions cannot contribute to our long-term objectives. after all, we have to be credible and stick to our position that, as far as russia is concerned, this is not a zero-sum game. yes, russia’s pressure is totally unacceptable. yes, we support wholeheartedly the legitimate protests of the pro-european majority in ukraine. young people there support political values, not nationalistic ones. we put our values in this fta, as well as the principle ‘more for more’. in the long term, this would prove beneficial for these countries. this is the right approach, but was it enough as a policy? i am afraid not. we in the new member states know well that these ftas also involve high economic and social costs in the short term. commissioner füle partly addressed this issue today. we need to enhance all our possible channels of communication with the partners. we have to find new ways of constructively engaging russia. this house should give further support to the euronest parliamentary assembly. what we need is both strategic patience and perseverance.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me stress that on this occasion i am taking the floor as the representative of lithuania, the host country of the recent eastern partnership summit. first of all, let me commend the high representative, commissioner füle and many members of this house for all their efforts in developing and strengthening the eastern partnership policy. the vilnius summit, its eve and its aftermath and what is happening in the streets and squares of kiev right now have proved to be an important and eye-opening experience. the current situation is worrying and something we cannot ignore. as president barroso stated yesterday, the european union has the right and the duty to stand alongside the people of ukraine at this very difficult time. as we have seen in recent days, the situation in ukraine is evolving very quickly and is highly volatile. we should stay engaged and not allow any threats, use of force or violence. having learned the lessons of the past month, we should be much more united and resolute in supporting and defending rights and freedoms in the eastern partnership region – both those of every individual and those of every nation. baigdamas pasakysiu šį tą asmeniškai. aš žinau, ką reiškia stovėti šaltyje prieš ginkluotą jėgą iš savo asmeninės patirties, kai buvau jaunas studentas, prieš 20 metų. dėl to manau, kad suprantu, ką jaučia žmonės ukrainos aikštėse, kai tave šildo tik laužas, draugo ranka ir tikėjimas, kad tu stovi už teisingą reikalą. taip pat žinau, kad tokiais momentais yra ypač svarbi tarptautinės bendruomenės parama.
mr. president, vilnius was the necessary step of the european union and thanks to commissioner fule, but unfortunately we are not satisfied. we need to do a thorough analysis because we don't have a plan "b" and we have to move forward. i would like to believe that ukraine's refusal to sign the association agreement with the european union is not final. the european future of ukraine, however, does not depend on it alone. it's up to us, the european politicians. the association of any country is a two-way process. right now, ukrainian society is divided, as are societies in other eastern european countries. and we european politicians have obviously not done our utmost to convince them of the usefulness of association. we have allowed the criteria for ukraine's association to be dominated by one personified problem, the tymoshenko case. we failed to give ukraine enough arguments so that the ruling and opposition in ukraine could easily reach a compromise and real progress. that, along with the pressure from russia, has created the conditions for the situation we're in. we must learn from this. it is important to send a clear message and call on the government to engage in a broad dialogue with the citizens of ukraine.
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. of course, we are talking about the rule of law. ukraine is a sovereign state and it has the right to decide whether or not to accept any association and any agreement. but we have clearly failed to convince the entire ukrainian public of the benefits of joining the european union. otherwise ukraine should and would have been united. i am in favour of supporting the european association of ukraine, because i know that this is the only way, but we have to find this compromise that will convince everyone that this is really the case.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, today ukraine needs the european union more than ever. but not the ukraine of yanukovych and putin, but the ukraine of thousands of protesters who want to see their country as a true democracy with european values. it is our duty to show solidarity with them and support them with a clear pan-european position condemning the use of force and pressure by russia; with additional financial support for civil society organisations and independent media, which are so necessary for the existence of a vibrant civil society; with additional opportunities for direct cooperation, bypassing state institutions. it is also important to remind russia that the choice of any country to join the union and to enter into economic relations must be free from pressure and blackmail. ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in ukraine is not a fight between russia and the european union. it is a contrast between two value models of cooperation and ukrainian society clearly states which model it prefers. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance, which is to be voted on tomorrow, is not just an instrument for financing reforms in the enlargement countries. it is an investment in their future, which has the potential to lead to an improvement in their economic situation and to positive reforms in political and social life. it is a guarantee of the european union's commitment to the enlargement process, proof that it is backing up with clear and concrete actions its promises for a european future for the western balkan countries and turkey. yet irreversible and sustainable reforms cannot be achieved with financial means alone. what is needed is political will, persistence and consistency, a break with the old oligarchic dependencies, making accession to the european union a national priority. all these are steps that only the enlargement countries can take, and we in the european union can only guide and support them. the pre-accession assistance tool is the first step. i hope we'll soon witness the final one, the joining itself.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has also adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - madam president, we welcome the proposal for a financial instrument to promote democracy and human rights in the world. this gives the union's action additional consistency and coherence. two points on the opinion of the femm committee. first, women's rights are an integral part of human rights. they must be defended as such in the union's external action. we must also combat all forms of violence against women. secondly, promoting democracy also means promoting women's participation in democratic transitions, in the consolidation of states. it is essential that women participate in the decision-making process. something that's very close to my heart. this is an excellent proposal, the 25% of the financial instrument devoted to election observation missions. we must ensure that the money invested in these missions, which are the true standard-bearers of the union's action for democracy in the world, can bear fruit. i am referring to the follow-up given to the recommendations contained in the reports of these missions. they should be used as a reference point, for example, for the union's delegations on democratisation, and in these missions it is important to continue the good practice of paying particular attention to women's rights.
madam president, i rise to support the package of external instruments and in particular the european neighbourhood instrument. i acknowledge its role in the conduct of regional cooperation with all the countries neighbouring the european union, including in the framework of the black sea cooperation policies. i am aware of its balancing role in the european union's external relations. i think we need to be extremely pragmatic. for this reason, it should not be forgotten that black sea synergy must be developed in the direction of a strategy or a strategic plan that corresponds to a new vision of the black sea 2020. the changing realities require that this happens as soon as possible. the countries of the black sea region - russia, ukraine, georgia, turkey - are partners of the european union in various programmes, including the good neighbour programme. however, their unification for the development of the black sea needs the strong support of the european union, concentrated around bulgaria and romania as members of the european union. we have not yet achieved the best of good neighbourliness, including cooperation with local authorities, civil society organisations, in the design, implementation and monitoring of union instruments. the european union should also support the capacity building of civil society organisations to ensure effective accountability at national level and engagement at local level.
member of the commission. − madam president, in recent weeks the albanian government has taken numerous initiatives to present its programme and, even more, the initial results in member state capitals and also in meetings with the european institutions. in some cases the government representative has been accompanied by an opposition representative, which clearly underlines the commitment of both sides to inclusiveness. i very much appreciate these efforts. this is one of the reasons why i have appealed to the european union member states to take albania’s additional efforts and results into account when discussing the granting of candidate status to albania. i would like to underline that albania still faces many challenges and that we are not recommending the opening of accession negotiations. i cannot agree more with some of my colleagues here in the european parliament. our report makes clear that there are a number of outstanding recommendations to be met before such a step could be envisaged. but we need to firmly anchor albania on its european union integration path. i strongly believe that granting candidate status to albania would send an encouraging signal to all its citizens that albania’s future is within europe. it would help to further consolidate the country’s engagement on european integration and to provide a stimulus to pursue necessary reforms and to better face challenges such as the difficult economic situation. i also strongly believe that it would have, without any doubt, a positive influence on the whole region.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, european integration requires serious efforts at national level and must be an inclusive process. continued commitment and a stable and constructive political dialogue are essential for albania’s success. the coming months will be crucial for the government to demonstrate its determination and live up to its promises. it is certainly most helpful for the government that there is a high level of support by albanian citizens for european integration. this is a significant foundation on which political leaders can build a common platform in the interest of their country. let me conclude by pointing out once again the progress albania has achieved in the past year, and in particular the last couple of months. it has demonstrated political will and concrete results in bringing about much needed reform. i am confident that further efforts will continue to be made during 2014.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, on behalf of the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton, i am honoured to address you today on the occasion of the presentation of the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy. let me start my intervention by paying tribute to president nelson mandela. as catherine ashton said: ‘today we grieve his death but also celebrate his life. he not only defeated apartheid in south africa; he showed people in every continent that the moral force of democracy could overcome the barren might of tyranny’. history will remember nelson mandela as a freedom fighter, a fighter for freedom who not only changed his country, but he changed the hearts and minds of billions on the planet as well. ʻto deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanityʼ, he once said. i believe these words should serve as an inspiration to the european union and the whole democratic community of the world in their course to protect and enshrine the ideals of freedom, democracy and human rights. at my side sits stavros lambrinidis, the eu special representative for human rights, whom you know very well in this house. in the past year and a half he worked tirelessly to project in the entire world the eu engagement in favour of human rights. he put human rights on the table where it matters most, he discussed our human rights concerns with the authorities of a large number of countries; he reached out to hundreds of ngos and human rights organisations and worked hand in hand with the eeas across the policy spectrum. let me now thank mr kukan and all the honourable members that have contributed to the report on human rights that we are discussing today. it is yet another important contribution from parliament to the development of eu policy on human rights. parliament’s role in influencing, in advocating and promoting democracy and human rights policy is invaluable. just a few weeks ago we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the sakharov prize. to mark the occasion, last week the lithuanian presidency together with parliament organised a discussion in vilnius with sakharov prize winners berta soler, alaksandar milinkievič, and a human rights activist and academic from memorial, and in our conversations we heard a firm call to continue serving as a huge beacon for freedom and democracy. i would like to extend my gratitude to ms lochbihler for the excellent idea of organising the event and mr donskis for his leadership in making it happen. we were all particularly pleased that the sakharov award this year went to the 16-year-old pakistani schoolgirl malala yousafzai. as european parliament president schultz said, malala is a ‘global icon in the fight for the right for education’. her words left an enduring mark on all of us. our shared objective must be to enable all girls and boys to go to school regardless of where they live. girls and boys around the world must live and grow without fear. this is why we are laying the groundwork for a worldwide campaign against one of the most abhorrent violations of human rights: violence against children. we aim to enhance prevention, and to fund more effectively child protection systems. we want to raise greater awareness about children’s rights, including their right to freedom from violence. malala also reminded us that there are nearly 800 million people who still lack basic literacy skills, and almost two thirds are women. inequality between men and women permeates all aspects of society. girls are more likely to be kept out of school, to be forced into marriage and to be subject to violence. this is unacceptable. leaving aside the moral principle, gender equality is also about democracy and economic development as well. we all know about the wasted talent and the lost wisdom when a society refuses to break with inequality. this is why we are particularly proud of the successful outcome of the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women, where the eu took a particularly active stance as concerns the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. we are now preparing for the next session, which will take place in march 2014 and we are keen to achieve strong agreed conclusions. there are estimates that every year some three million women and girls in the world face female genital mutilation. we are committed to a zero tolerance policy of this cruel practice that violates the rights of women and girls and harms them in many ways. the adoption in november, on the occasion of the international day for elimination of violence against women, of a strategy towards the elimination of female genital mutilation is a demonstration of our commitment, jointly with our international partners. we are also taking stock of the millennium development goals and recognising the need to step up joint efforts. looking forward, the eu is convinced that gender equality and women’s empowerment should have a strong place in the post-2015 framework. we are expressing this view in the on-going discussions on the sustainable development goals. the adoption of the eu strategic framework and the action plan on human rights and democracy in 2012 was a landmark shift. for the first time, thanks to this comprehensive and systematic document endorsed by all eu actors including parliament, the eu has delivered on its pledge to put human rights and democracy at the centre of its policy. our 2012 annual report fully reflects, for the first time, this renewed engagement, both in its structure and content. we are pleased by the encouragement you have expressed in your report. it means that we are on the right path. at the same time, we have taken careful note of your remarks, criticisms and suggestions on how to improve and make progress. in 2013, we have continued to develop our action for the promotion of human rights and we have upgraded our own internal procedures, we have set up a network of human rights focal points in the delegations and at headquarters we have set up a specific brussels-based cohom working group. we have mostly focused, as a matter of priority, on the implementation of the various activities of the action plan, which require collective efforts from eu institutions and member states alike. we have been working to deliver on our commitment to incorporate human rights in trade, development and other external eu policies, as your report strongly suggests. we have continued to push for implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights and significantly, the commission has published human rights guidance for three business sectors. we have a strong and principled policy on the abolition of the death penalty. we have continued to target retentionist countries and to advocate for the abolition of capital punishment, as well as for an introduction of a moratorium on executions as a first step towards abolition. in the past 18 months, at least 60 statements were issued and more than 30 démarches carried out, specifying worrying trends in executions, imposition of death sentences and breaches of moratoria. the eu attended the madrid world congress against the death penalty on 12-15 june, where stavros lambrinidis addressed the closing ceremony. we have pushed ahead with our human rights country strategies. we prepared 146 strategies from all regions which were discussed by cohom and relevant geographical working parties in 2013. we have continued to engage in a number of human rights dialogues and consultations with our partner countries, and we will strive, in line with your suggestions, mr kukan, to make them even more meaningful and effective in the future. and we have continued to prepare guidelines to guide and inform the eu’s policies in key human rights areas. in june the foreign affairs council adopted the guidelines to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lgbti persons. the guidelines target discriminatory laws and policies, promote equality and non-discrimination, aim at combating violence against lgbti persons and support and protect human rights defenders. on numerous occasions the vice-president/high representative issued public statements and our delegations carried out démarches. we fully share the worries of mr kukan and honourable members concerning the trend of increased violence against journalists and restrictions on media freedom, as the numerous statements by the vice-president/high representative this year sadly show. in this context, your report of june 2013 on the freedom of press and media in the world was a timely and substantial contribution. it feeds into our preparation of new eu guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline, which is ongoing, in consultation with you and civil society. our engagement at bilateral level was both intensive and extensive: the vice-president/high representative and the eu special representative have discussed human rights issues with eu strategic partners, such as china or russia. but they have also extensively travelled to countries in transition, particularly in such crucial areas as asean, the gulf, and north africa. in bahrain the call of the eu was heard for the release of those arrested in the context of peaceful political activities. and in egypt, the vice-president/high representative has repeatedly called for the full respect for fundamental human rights as an indispensable condition for a transition towards democracy and has offered concrete eu support for a democratic transition, including further assistance to civil society and in the socioeconomic sector to help the most vulnerable groups of egyptian society. our assistance in these areas will continue. countries in transition are a particular challenge. we share the analysis of mr kukanʼs report in this regard, and deeply appreciate this support for our efforts. as the high representative always says, it is not for europe, nor any other outsider, to offer countries in transition any ready-made solutions. democracy and freedom are built from the inside, not imported from abroad. what we want to do, what the eu is trying to do, is to help egypt, tunisia and other partners to build the kind of democracy that meets the aspirations of all: women, men, young and old. we can help but only they can do it. not just organising free and fair elections – it is about building the civil society and the institutions that guarantee the rights of everyone. it means freedom of expression, freedom of belief, and respect for all communities. this is also the case in myanmar where the eu organised the first task force outside of the neighbourhood area last month with the active participation and contribution of members of this house, led by vice-president isabelle durant. the vice-president/high representative, together with aung san suu kyi, took part in a specific civil society forum, with over 60 participants from all spectrums of civil society in the country. the forum gave the eu an opportunity to highlight the importance it places on engagement with civil society as a key component of the transition, and to discuss the key challenges facing the country, including human rights, reconciliation, minorities and the quest for sustainable peace. the eu shares parliament’s concern about the crackdown on civil society organisations in many corners around the world and is deploying tremendous efforts to address increased restrictions on freedom of association placed on civil society. let me assure you that we take very seriously mr kukanʼs invitation to work closely with civil society. as an example, the eeas and devco are working together towards the establishment of road maps for civil society. only last week, we held the annual eu-ngo forum. hundreds of human rights defenders, activists and policymakers gathered in brussels to discuss accountability, including the icc and transitional justice. the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) has continued to support extensively human rights defenders and civil society. in this context, let me praise the constructive trialogue of 19 november which has paved the way for an agreed text on the new eidhr regulation. we are pleased that the new eidhr foresees a strengthened and more comprehensive human rights defenders mechanism, and a new facility to support civil society actors in the most difficult countries where human rights and democracy are most at risk. we are engaged within the united nations to advance the universality of human rights. very fittingly, this year human rights day marks the 20th anniversary of the world conference on human rights in vienna and the creation of the office of the high commissioner for human rights. the vice-president/high representative publicly commended the high commissioner navi pillay on the tremendous work that her office and the rest of the un have conducted over the past 20 years in furthering and safeguarding human rights throughout the world. the vienna declaration and programme of action stated the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights and led to historic advances in their promotion and protection. the united nations remains a vital forum for the advancement and protection of human rights, and the eu remains active and engaged in geneva, new york, and worldwide. in 2013 the eu has advanced its agenda through the un, as endorsed by the foreign affairs council conclusions of 18 february. the 2013 human rights council in geneva saw the eu successful in all its objectives, including by expanding the mandates of the special rapporteurs for myanmar, the dprk, freedom of religion or belief, belarus and iran, as well as securing the mandate for the commission of inquiry on syria. in new york, at the un general assembly third committee, eu resolutions on myanmar and the dprk passed without a vote, enjoying broad, cross-regional support. resolutions on iran and syria were also passed, again with strong eu and cross-regional backing. i also want to join your report in welcoming the establishment of the european endowment for democracy (eed). the first funding decisions have been made, to democracy activists in both the eastern and southern neighbourhoods. in closing, after taking stock of your work this year, allow me to express some satisfaction at our extensive common achievements. and once again thank you to mr kukan, to all the honourable members, and to this parliament for all your support in our common endeavour.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has also adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr kukan, on his excellent work. the report has taken account of the opinion of the femm committee, and i thank it. first of all, i think we should welcome the firmness of the very first paragraph of the report. human rights are at the heart of the union's relations with all third countries, including strategic partners. this is where the union's external action differs from other diplomacy, and this reality must be given visibility. in this capacity, the eu special representative for human rights plays a key role and i would have liked him to be present for this debate. secondly, the union's human rights policy must continue to focus on the fight against impunity, including sexual violence, especially when it is used as a weapon of war. we know that this is happening in many parts of the world right now. finally, as regards armed conflict, i would stress the efforts that must be made to protect children in armed conflict and, as far as possible, to enable them to continue to go to school, and to keep them away from armed groups. these are the points which add value to european human rights policy and i am glad that the report reinforces them.
in writing. at a time when the eu is at a strategic crossroads, choosing the right direction for the csdp is crucial to its military capabilities. europe needs to develop its full range of capabilities if it is to remain relevant to its strategic interests and respond in a timely manner to new geostrategic challenges. the decisions of the next council, including on industry and technology, will therefore have a long-term impact in the future. the eu's defence industry and technology is still fragmented and poorly competitive in the global arms market. at the same time, european defence industries are not only important for security, by providing the armed forces with military equipment and materiel, but they are also a source of new jobs, innovation and economic growth. the eu's industrial base should be competitive and innovative. defence research and innovation is key to enhancing the competitiveness of the european defence industry. a potential solution to this is to promote the development of dual-use technologies through the new research and innovation programme horizon 2020. cooperation and non-duplication with nato will multiply the effect. member states should also deepen their cooperation in military technological development on a bilateral and multilateral basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the brok report because it enables the common rules and procedures for implementing the instruments for external action to be set out in a coherent, comprehensive manner and in accordance with the values and objectives of the union's external action. first of all, the report which sets out the framework for the implementation of the six financial instruments of foreign policy has the merit of clearly recalling the values which led to the construction of the european union and which must be reflected in external action: democracy, respect for the rule of law, the universality of human rights, fundamental freedoms. the report also takes into account issues such as better predictability of aid and ownership of programmes by beneficiaries. the report also stresses the need to make the union's external action more visible through these six instruments, possibly through a communication and information strategy for the citizens of the beneficiary third countries. finally, the involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and programming of projects will make it possible to manage the instruments of external action more democratically, in line with the values promoted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation which creates a new complementary partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries. this instrument takes account of the reality of a multipolar world where new emerging powers, with which we can no longer organise our relations in the logic of development aid, become strategic partners in a competitive environment. this instrument should make it possible to develop the european union's strategic relations with these new partners and, above all, to better project and defend european values, interests and models of society in the various global forums and international organisations. in defending its strategic interests, the eu must thus protect its values and specificities. this new instrument should help to make the eu an effective international player where member states can no longer weigh in on the balance alone. however, it will be necessary to ensure, in particular through the application of the regulation establishing common rules and procedures for the implementation of the instruments for the union's external action, that this partnership instrument is consistent with those for development.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a step forward in preserving the stability of milk production in mountain, less-favoured and outermost regions after the abolition of quotas in 2015. milk production is often the only source of income in these parts of europe. it is of particular importance for their economy, social stability, environmental quality and land use. therefore, a stable future for the sector must be ensured, depopulation of rural areas and negative economic and environmental consequences avoided. to this end, it is necessary to preserve livestock in these regions. it is not only an economic sector and a livelihood for their inhabitants, but is a defining element of their traditional culture and social structures, deeply linked to the daily life and traditions of the local population. attention should be paid to the condition of permanent grassland and pastures and to small farms in these regions. the important role of the coupled payments under the first pillar and the support measures under the rural development programmes for these areas should be underlined. that is why i voted for this report, because it is a step forward towards one of the objectives of the new cap - the maintenance of productive agriculture in the mountainous, disadvantaged and remote regions of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the proposal on payment accounts that we are discussing today, for which i share responsibility with commissioner barnier, is of great importance. it will open up the single market for financial services for both consumers and businesses, thereby increasing competition, allowing consumers greater choice and driving down prices. it will also allow for better integration of all eu citizens in the economy by improving their access to financial services. as you know, all three institutions are working very hard to conclude this important file within the current mandate. so let me first thank parliament for its hard work and especially mr klute – the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) – and the shadow rapporteurs for their determination, expertise and personal commitment to advancing this key file. you may recall that this proposal was one of the priority actions of the single market act ii and that parliament itself produced an own-initiative report with recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services last year, again led by mr klute. you already know what this proposal aims to achieve. let me address three key elements which have been subject to particularly intensive discussions over the last couple of months, including in this parliament. first, on the transparency and comparability of payment account fees: it is essential that fee information provided to consumers before they open a payment account is both well-targeted and relevant, so that consumers find the information useful and easy to understand. long lists of fees would not help consumers understand; neither would they allow effective comparison with other offers. second: we are convinced that a reliable switching service across the union will benefit both consumers and providers. it is an important tool for increasing consumer mobility in the eu and will bolster the single market for financial services. we are ready to consider options that would help us reach this result within a reasonable time. third, it is imperative that consumers are able to freely, and without restriction, choose payment accounts most suited to their needs, wherever the provider is located in the european union. the principle of having a single market would be undermined if limitations were placed on consumersʼ ability to purchase goods and services cross-border. i must add that the commission is fully aware that all eu consumers must follow certain requirements, including identity checks, before they are able to open a payment account. the proposed directive does not derogate from full compliance with the anti-money laundering provisions set in the anti-money laundering directive. however, beyond these basics, there should not be any other criteria to be met. easier access to financial services will enhance customer mobility in the european union and will foster competition between providers, encouraging them to offer better and cheaper products and services. i will now be very interested to hear your views on these as well as other issues on which you think the commission proposal could be improved. i will carefully analyse all your comments and suggestions. i count on the honourable members to give a strong mandate to the rapporteur mr klute which will pave the way for successful negotiations, so that together we can deliver for citizens by concluding this important file within the current parliamentary term.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - mr president, unlike many less useful policies, consumer protection is one of the union's good things. in particular, despite my very particular opinion, i am in favour of subsidiarity, since in the banking sector in particular the bulgarian authorities are too weak to limit the arbitrariness of this sector over consumers. this directive, which we are going to vote on tomorrow, is a very important step forward in supporting consumers, because they would be hard pressed to defend themselves against the arbitrariness of such powerful institutions as banks. let every european citizen know that from tomorrow he will have the opportunity, the right to his own bank account, which will not burden him, will not burden his budget with absolutely unnecessary expenses for bank charges. because bank fees exist so that the bank can cover its real administrative costs. many banks, however, abuse the system by charging higher fees and turning them into a source of profit. and i congratulate the commission that it is now limiting this abuse by the banking sector in its proposal. citizens should also know that they will have an easy and accessible system to compare fees and make a much easier and much more accurate informed choice. i think that the compromises that have been discussed and the participation of all parties in this good dialogue that has taken shape during the work on the adoption of this directive have actually cleared out all the contentious elements of it and with our joint work in the legal affairs committee, the internal market committee and the leading economic affairs committee, we have indeed achieved a very important, solid result that is in the interest of every single citizen and in this way the european parliament has proved that it is close to the citizens of europe.
the directive under discussion, commissioner, demonstrates the european union's consistency in its efforts to manage and protect europe's water resources and coastal zones in an integrated manner. the expansion of maritime activities in coastal areas, the intensification of the exploitation of water resources and the intensification of industrialisation pose a number of challenges for the protection of the environment and the development of marine areas. we are seeing landslides and the generation of huge amounts of waste, and in fact a large proportion of the european union's population lives in coastal areas and we need to ensure a high standard and a clean environment for everyone. the report is balanced - congratulations, mrs meissner - and preserves the rights of the nation states in the regulation of coastal areas. i welcome the creation of an integrated electronic platform through which processes related to the regulation of marine areas will be monitored, as well as the inclusion of natura 2000 sites in the scope of the directive. the basis for maritime spatial planning should be to open up urbanised areas to the sea and to eliminate the trend towards the creation of coastal zones with restricted or paid access. water and coastal resources should be treated as a european common good and their planning processes should lead to their full use in the interests of people.
mr president, tackling the loss of biodiversity is of vital importance as we are well aware that it is closely linked to human wellbeing. our actions are needed not so much for the sake of achieving our 2020 climate objectives or our international commitments under the aichi biodiversity targets and the strategic plan for biodiversity: first and foremost they are needed to protect nature for future generations. one way to achieve this is by creating green infrastructure which successfully integrates nature into society. this means that ecological elements should be integrated at the very early stages of planning and developing infrastructure in urban, rural and coastal areas. for this purpose, green requirements should be integrated in rural infrastructure projects co-funded by the european union. besides the ecological and public health benefits, such an innovative approach will contribute to the creation of sustainable green jobs. i would also like to stress the need for our national and regional authorities to make good use of all available eu funding opportunities to support understanding and promote more green infrastructure initiatives. greening our cities should become a standard. finally, i would also like to highlight the need to promote research, innovation, capacity building and awareness-raising in this field. it will guarantee that the benefits and potential of developing green infrastructure are well known in society and the private sector.
