he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to wish you all a very happy new year, good health and personal happiness. i also wish that 2013 will be the year that marks europe's real exit from the socioeconomic crisis that has plagued it in recent years. the european union is facing a crisis of unprecedented intensity and depth, which has unfortunately affected the social cohesion of the union and the well-being of our citizens. i would also like to begin by thanking all the institutions of the union, but above all the european parliament and the chairmen of all the political groups, for their support during the cyprus presidency. it would be an oversight if i did not mention our very close cooperation with the european commission and warmly thank our friend president josé manuel barroso, whose personal contribution has been instrumental in promoting the common european agenda. i would also like to express my warm thanks to our partners in the presidency triumph. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. i am confident that the current irish presidency of the council will be a complete success in its mission. the irish partners have undoubtedly the skills, the commitment and the experience to take europe forward. it would be a real honor if it would be useful to them what we have tried and built over the past semester. let me now turn personally to you, mr president of the house, mr martin schulz, and thank you from the bottom of my heart for your cooperation, your unconditional support and your support for the work of the cyprus presidency over the last six months. i am very grateful to you for the confidence you have shown in us. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last july cyprus took over the six-month presidency of the council for the first time since its accession to the european union, in conditions which were admittedly very difficult for our union. uncertainty about the future of the euro area and the single european currency, wavering in the institutional unity of the union and doubts about the future of a united europe. in particular, as regards the euro area, i believe that the clear steps taken in the last six months should be recognised and, as all evidence shows, have made a decisive contribution to strengthening and safeguarding the cohesion of the euro area and to securing the future of the single european currency. i sincerely hope that we have put the worst of it behind us once and for all. from the outset we have been of the view that the current difficulties and challenges facing the european union require profound european responses. we have stressed that in such times of crisis the need becomes urgent as we achieve a more united and more efficient, a better europe. our wider objective was to work towards a better europe that means more for its citizens. a better europe in the world. a union that operates on the basis of its own principles and values. a more effective union with sustainable policies that enhance employment, growth and social cohesion. we have set ourselves the political objective of contributing, to the extent of our powers and responsibilities, to a union with more tangible benefits for the well-being of european citizens. we firmly believe that the european union today, more than ever, needs the most coherent policies to safeguard the social cohesion and well-being of its citizens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we need a union of social solidarity which can provide help and reliable solutions to the daily socioeconomic problems of its citizens. i think that this is a debt owed, on the one hand, to the visionaries of european integration and, on the other, to the young generations of europe who see a bleak future ahead of them, since it is our children, above all, who suffer so unfairly from the effects of unemployment. i am particularly pleased that the cypriot presidency of the council has pushed this major political objective forward horizontally in the second half of 2012. we have instilled our own political positions and social sensitivities into the wider european debate on the need to establish a social union, which will of course complement and not cancel out our collective efforts to strengthen economic and monetary union, as well as the painstaking efforts of almost all the member states of the union to bring about economic recovery and a way out of the crisis. a better europe also means easier and more effective institutional relations and communication between the main union institutions. one of our main ambitions - and i believe it has been fulfilled - was to act as an honest mediator, seeking to work constructively both within the council and in close consultation with the other institutions, thus promoting interinstitutional cooperation. we have sought synergy and complementarity between the union's institutions and actors in promoting the common european agenda. the european council has also expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages and the release of the hostages. i am particularly pleased that the cypriot presidency has made a substantial contribution to the deepening of a good, continuous and sincere cooperation relationship with the commission, but above all with the european parliament. it is important to emphasize that, as i promised to you on 4 july last, the cypriot presidency has faithfully followed the community method and has ensured a constructive relationship of cooperation and trust with the european parliament. i would also like to stress that we have worked constructively and with full respect for the competences of all the union's institutions. the enhanced mutual trust that has been built up over the last six months between the two constituent bodies of the union should undoubtedly be continued and further extended. this, ladies and gentlemen, is in my view the most fundamental political success of the first cypriot presidency of the council with important institutional implications. the cyprus presidency devoted much energy and energy to the issue of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, as was the mandate given by the european council last june. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i believe, however, and i firmly believe, that the hard work done by the cypriot presidency is a contribution to the necessary fermentation which must continue in the coming weeks under the leadership of the president of the european council with a view to reaching an agreement. i still believe that the new multiannual financial framework should be the best tool at our disposal to give a new impetus to growth and job creation. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, allow me to note with all modesty and sincerity that the cypriot presidency has achieved targeted and significant results for the union by consistently pursuing a functional and pragmatic approach. i shall mention only a few of them in italics. the european union is also committed to the development of a common european asylum system. the cyprus presidency inherited the four remaining pending legislative proposals to complete the common european asylum system. i am very pleased to say that we are very close to achieving this great goal. we have succeeded, after concerted efforts with the european parliament and in particular our catalytic cooperation with president schultz, in normalizing the situation with regard to the schengen administration. with the help of all the member states and of course the conference of presidents of the european parliament, the cyprus presidency has managed to avoid a major setback which could have made it more difficult for the council to work with the european parliament on a horizontal basis, thus upsetting the constitutional work and our wider planning. i would also like to express my particular satisfaction that the extraordinary council meeting on economic and financial affairs convened by the cypriot presidency on 12 december achieved the major objective of reaching agreement in the council, within the framework of a general approach on the new supervisory mechanism, thus taking an important step towards the direct recapitalisation of banks and the implementation of the banking union, a key component of economic and monetary union. we look forward to working closely with you to ensure that the single supervisory mechanism is finalised and implemented as quickly as possible under the ordinary legislative procedure. another remarkable achievement of the presidency, which was made possible by good cooperation with the european parliament and in extremely difficult circumstances, was the timely agreement with the european parliament on the union's 2013 budget and the 2012 supplementary budgets. the agreement on the unitary patent is a major achievement for the union. the interinstitutional crisis that emerged last june has been overcome and after more than thirty years of negotiations, the regulation has finally been signed, which will greatly help competitiveness and development, especially of small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the european economy. in addition, despite the general delay in some legislative proposals, i would like to note with satisfaction that the cyprus presidency has reached agreement with the european parliament on five important actions of the single market act. we have also succeeded in taking an important step in the field of external trade by opening negotiations for a free trade agreement with japan. it is worth noting that the commission estimates that 400 000 additional jobs are expected to be created in the european union as a result of this agreement. last but not least, i would like to make a special reference to the success of the cypriot presidency in reactivating the european union's integrated maritime policy. the limassol declaration has given a new impetus to exploiting the enormous potential of blue growth. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to shipbuilding companies in order to reduce the number of shipbuilding companies in the community. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our main objective during the six months of our presidency has been to make a constructive contribution to further european integration. i sincerely believe that the main results of our presidency, as i have already said, are the undeniable proof of our positive contribution. ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of my presence today in the european parliament, and in view of the fact that my term as president of the republic of cyprus is coming to an end very soon, i would like to share with you my anxiety about the future of our union. the deep bureaucratic way in which the union is institutionally structured, in my poor opinion, erodes the production of rational policies aimed at more effectively addressing the daily needs of european citizens. it is with great regret that i note that there is a serious gap between the political decisions we take, for example, at the level of the european council, and those which are implemented at the technocratic level. we cannot decide at the june european council to finally focus on measures to boost growth and employment, while the technocrats-clients of the troika continue to promote the same failed recipes of unilateral and severe austerity that are driving millions of european citizens into poverty, destitution and social exclusion. this situation is rightly disappointing to our citizens. we have a duty to reverse the climate of disillusionment with the european union, which is growing in the societies of our countries. we must act in concert and make european integration attractive again, giving hope to european citizens and especially to our young people. the european union cannot give the impression that it is only supporting big business and bankers. the policies of absolute market freedom, which equals market insecurity and freedom for speculators and multinational companies to impose austerity policies on the peoples of europe, which stifle development and tear apart the social fabric, must be abandoned. it is my firm belief that unilateral austerity policies are a guaranteed recipe for failure, since they only succeed in making the rich richer and the poor poorer. the european union, if it is to be recognised by its millions of citizens as a guarantor of stability and peace, must promote social cohesion in the union in a meaningful way. without social cohesion and social justice, the european union will be an organisation of states without a vision. the welfare of all and social peace are an integral part of the noble vision of the founders of a united europe. we have won the nobel peace prize, but in a country which is a member of the european union 37% of its territory is still occupied by a country which aspires to be a member of the union. i believe that, especially at a time when the european union is going through a multifaceted crisis, we must look to the founding principles of the union for guidance. and most of all, to the principle of solidarity. we must give the principle of solidarity a new meaning. not to serve, as some may fear, the excessive borrowing of the poor european south by the rich european north, but to demonstrate through transparent procedures and best practices that the word 'union' in the title 'european union' is not empty of content, but has substance that is translated into political action through effective actions that make a difference for citizens. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize that the intensification of our common struggle for a better europe, more people-centred and with more visible benefits for european citizens, is more necessary than ever. we know the road to ithaca is long and difficult. but there is no doubt that together we can do better! thank you very much.
president of the commission. − mr president, president christofias, honourable members, i want to start by thanking and also congratulating president christofias, and through him all the people and authorities involved in the running of the cyprus presidency. i want to pay tribute today to cyprus, which, as one of our smallest member states, with its particular geographical location and itself facing important political and economic challenges these days, has proved its pro-european commitment, professionalism and efficiency during its council presidency. together we have reached important results during this period, and i am convinced that cyprus will continue to make an important contribution to our union beyond its term of presidency. president christofias, dear friend, thank you very much for your kind words regarding the role the commission and myself have played in contributing to your very successful presidency. honourable members, our debate today gives us the opportunity to take stock of what has been achieved so far, and what is still on the table. during six months not all problems can be solved. not all files can be closed. nevertheless, a lot of important groundwork has been done in 2012 which, in that sense, was a crucial year. crisis-hit eurozone countries have made important progress in bringing their budgets in order and in tackling deep-rooted structural problems. they have done so with determination and resolve. at every phase, they have been driven forward, advised and assisted by the european institutions. this process needs to continue. the ever-sceptical financial markets have taken note of these efforts and acknowledged them. private investors are finding their way back to eurozone countries in need. competitiveness, notably of the least competitive member states, is improving, leading to the gradual rebalancing the eurozone so far has lacked. overall public finances are improving, slowly but surely. we have safeguarded the integrity of the eurozone. we have stopped the existential threat hanging over us earlier. of course, we must avoid any kind of complacency. as long as unemployment remains very high, the crisis is certainly not over yet. and i have been extremely clear saying that we still have a crisis in front of us, namely a social crisis, very deep in some of our member states. but we have turned a page in the crisis. no more, no less. and we are now ready to write the next chapter of the recovery. this next chapter will be about building confidence by further strengthening our economic governance, by completing the banking union and by exploiting every means possible to create growth – sustainable growth – and jobs and to address the most pressing social problems in our countries. the commission will continue to take the lead in this. the line the commission has been defending, and will continue to defend, is of course about putting our public finances in order. because without that there is no confidence, without confidence there is no investment, without investment there is no growth. but this is just part of the answer. we have at the same time highlighted how important it is to have reforms for competitiveness and also investment, because investment is indispensable for growth. i wish all governments of europe could share the same priority the commission is giving to the need for investment at european level. we will continue to firmly defend the european interest. and we will continue to work hand in hand with this parliament. the european union and its member states have to continue on the path of reform. we have yet to prove the sustainability of this process. looking at the past year i feel encouraged that we will be successful. in fact, this is the main lesson i draw from what happened and from what did not happen over the last few months: those speculating against the euro have underestimated the political capital that is invested in it. let us continue to prove them wrong, and take care not to disinvest at such a crucial moment, just when our investment is starting – and i underline starting – to pay off. a lot still has to be done. this is also why it is crucial to complete our work at european level. despite the important efforts deployed by the cyprus presidency and by many of you in the european parliament, we have not been able to finalise the two-pack. and the two-pack is essential for making progress on economic governance within the community method. after a year of negotiations, with 13 trialogue meetings, i believe it is time to conclude and send, once again, the signal that europe is capable of decisive action. this is the first opportunity we have to keep the reform momentum going. likewise, we have not had the chance to break the deadlock in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, something both parliament and the commission would have welcomed. the cyprus presidency made the first attempt to reach a consensus. however, the conditions were not yet met to reach agreement. clearly, these have been the most difficult and complex budget negotiations ever. now, negotiations have reached a point where, i must say, further cuts risk weakening the european union as such, while our common goal should be to strengthen our union. the mff is a fundamental european tool for growth, for investment, for solidarity – concrete solidarity. the commission will continue to work towards an agreement between member states and also between our institutions. we have highlighted constantly that the approval of the parliament is indispensable. and we need that agreement. we have seen, in the extremely difficult negotiations on the european union’s budget for 2013 and the amending budget for 2012 – where, by the way, the cyprus presidency made a tremendous and at the end successful effort – how negative it would be if we could not have the predictability that a multiannual budget can give for investment in europe. and i will also keep fighting for the truly european parts of the package, notably those aimed at growth and jobs. but as i said, we are not yet there. further efforts will be needed to bring positions together. this will be difficult but certainly not impossible. that was also clear from the debate on the road towards a european banking union. the centrepiece of the cyprus presidency was to make progress on the commission’s proposals for a single supervisory mechanism. and in this, we have achieved a significant breakthrough, both on the council and on the parliament side. parliament has worked on this very efficiently and the thyssen and giegold reports are constructive and supportive, and in very many points rather similar to the approach taken by the council. i hope making the final step for formal adoption is a matter of weeks, not months. next should be a swift conclusion on the pending proposals on bank capital rules, bank resolution and deposit guarantees. following the adoption of the ssm the commission will make a formal legislative proposal for a single resolution mechanism in the banking sector before the summer. i consider this a matter of utmost political priority. this proposal will be by no means less important than the ssm, and neither will it be less complex to frame in legal, technical and political terms. at the same time, we have not neglected to prepare the ground for the major debate needed before the european elections: in presenting our blueprint on a deep and genuine emu, the commission stuck its neck out. that is our role. it is the only way for europe to keep its focus on the long road still ahead, to provide coherence and also to structure our day-to-day efforts. the focus that we had to give to the financial sector, to the fiscal situation and to questions of economic governance does not mean europe is losing sight of the real economy. on the contrary, the real economy is and should be our first priority. and in this sense the contribution made by the cyprus presidency in the last six months needs to be highlighted here. after some 30 years of debate, and based on commission proposals, an agreement was finally reached between member states – even if not all – on the single european patent. we have concluded negotiations on a free trade agreement with singapore, and you have given the final consent to trade deals with central america, and with colombia and peru; and we have agreed to launch negotiations for a free trade agreement with japan. we also took stock of the implementation of the digital agenda for europe, halfway through its five-year strategy, and found that it had achieved many of its targets and is on track to meet most of the others. the commission presented its proposal for a council recommendation on youth guarantees. first discussions have taken place in the council. it is key that we prioritise for job and training opportunities for those hit hardest by the crisis. this is a matter where member states can give a concrete demonstration that they are committed to growth and to tackling the very serious problem of unemployment, namely youth unemployment. a very good contribution of the cyprus presidency was the limassol declaration, giving a new impetus to our integrated maritime policy. this is a matter very close to my heart. i was happy to be in cyprus for that occasion and i believe this can be a real contribution to boost growth. finally, and i could of course quote other matters, but among the most important, progress was also made on the asylum package and it has brought us very close to concluding the discussions on the common european asylum system and, with our groundwork, important steps have been achieved in negotiating with this house on the schengen governance package, preparing the ground for an agreement in early 2013. i truly believe that over the last few months, while many important and difficult challenges remain, notably the social ones, we have regained trust, we have reaffirmed composure and recovered momentum. the cyprus presidency can therefore look back with satisfaction at a number of important achievements in economically and socially difficult times. during these last six months, cyprus has shown its european commitment in holding its first council rotating presidency. it will be our job over the months to come, through serious efforts, to show that europe works and delivers – each of us with his or her own role to play, but never forgetting our collective responsibility as a union. (applause)
question of the day: blue card. i would like to say, madam president, that i consider you to be one of the most serious colleagues, and i very much appreciate your work. i would also like to thank you for your sensitivity to the division in cyprus. i have heard you refer to this subject a few times. i would like to ask you two questions: you are referring to the so-called tax haven in cyprus, but what we are discussing in cyprus, and i would like you to comment on this, is the tax haven in general, which is favourable because of the existing eurosystem and the lack of tariffs, countries such as germany and others which are getting richer and because of the fact that the possibilities of imposing tariffs have been removed. so there must be ways of discussing all these issues and secondly, i have sent you decisions and investigations of the council of europe's monival committee of 1998, 2001, 2005 and 2010 which all point out that cyprus has adopted all the measures that are in line with the international standards and legal framework for tax havens and customs and which have been put into effect and are considered ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
question of the day: blue card. madam president, my question is again to mrs harms. i am sorry to hear you say that cyprus is a tax haven, a place for tax evaders and political refugees. are you referring to occupied cyprus ? that's the first question. do you know that our legislation has been fully adapted and harmonised in terms of tackling tax evasion and that cyprus is therefore not a tax haven? if you have any evidence to the contrary, please present it. and the second question: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. whose fault is that ? the cypriot governments, and the present government, have fought many battles for the reunification of cyprus... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, we have seen in the past six months the cypriot presidency pushing forward an ambitious agenda with a firm commitment to european ideals and achieving, in the midst of a deep economic crisis, a dignified presence by acting as an honest mediator and a reliable partner. it has successfully prepared the ground for a final agreement on the multiannual financial framework and has achieved important agreements and initiatives on the single supervisory mechanism, the 2012 supplementary budget, the 2013 budget, the limassol declaration, the single patent, and has also successfully promoted the european asylum system and schengen intergovernment. i am particularly pleased to note the completion of the 2013 european year of citizens, which aims to inform european citizens about the rights granted by european citizenship and to strengthen participatory democracy. i would remind you, however, that the fundamental right of free movement, residence and work which european citizenship confers on us is being flagrantly violated in my own country, european cyprus, by the turkish occupation, which has been denying the cypriot presidency for the whole of this semester and has also cancelled the 70th meeting of the joint parliamentary committee, in defiance of european principles and obligations. we, the citizens of europe, are sincerely calling for practical measures and for european solidarity to restore the human rights of the refugee population, the entire cypriot people, who have unfortunately been living in a divided country for the last 39 years. we also call for direct recapitalisation of the banks by the european stability mechanism with retroactive effect and i hope that this initiative will indeed be successfully put forward by the irish presidency and that it will be achieved. the cypriot people, like the people of the south of europe, in spain, portugal and greece, have had enough of the troika's unilateral austerity policies and are demanding european solidarity and support from the european mechanism. i hope that cyprus's vision of a better europe will become a reality.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. deep recession, unemployment, harsh austerity measures, growing poverty and the big problems within the eurozone. the government of the republic of cyprus has proposed a socially sensitive presidency, without directives directed against the vulnerable, and has kept this commitment, although no presidency can make a real difference on its own. important files were closed and progress was made on a number of issues such as the common european asylum system. we welcome the clear support offered to the presidency in dealing with the unprovoked threats of the turkish government. we want this support to be turned into a demand so that turkey can lift the hostage situation in cyprus. we want cyprus' natural resources to be a tool for cooperation and development throughout the eastern mediterranean region, and not a target for blackmail against cyprus' sovereignty. it is with this political lens of cooperation that the cyprus presidency has developed its priorities.
madam president, i agree that cyprus has proved that there are no small or big states. there are capable and efficient or inefficient and less capable. cyprus really deserves congratulations on the presidency. my question is very specific and should not go unnoticed. the president of the republic, mr christofias, has in fact complained that the decisions of the european council are not in fact adopted or implemented by the technocrats. in conclusion, is it the council that cannot be imposed or are the technocrats more powerful? i'd like a more specific answer.
madam president, violence against women and girls is certainly a scourge afflicting all societies. as members of parliament we are committed to prevention, protection, provision of infrastructure, action-planning and monitoring of this situation. we support the un structures fighting to put to an end to all types of gender-based violence and inequalities, discrimination, genital mutilation and honour crimes. we call on the eu, the un and the council of europe to work hand-in-hand to maximise their impact, to break the silence around the world, and to develop efficient international norms, policies and a global implementation plan, in close cooperation with ngos and civil society, to end violence. we call on you, ms reding, to put pressure on the commission to propose a comprehensive eu strategy on violence against women, including a directive with minimum standards. we call on the eu and all member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention and to increase resource allocation and support to ngos and women’s organisations. on 14 february let us stand up, rise and dance against violence.
madam president, recently cyprus has been unfairly accused of money laundering. cyprus is a reputable business centre, and not a tax haven or a money laundering centre. the country’s low tax regime, which is comparable to that of ireland and luxembourg, was fully approved when cyprus joined the eu. the island complies fully with international conventions and european legislation. it has already implemented measures for which the international monetary fund, the council of europe and the oecd have all given cyprus high scores. cypriot banks are subject to strict controls. furthermore, cyprus is ready to accept any official scrutiny in respect of eu standards. as may be known, cyprus has recently applied for a bail-out, because cypriot banks have suffered huge losses amounting to more than 50% of the country’s gdp as a result of the eu’s decision to haircut greek sovereign debt. now that the country needs eu solidarity, it would be grossly unfair if it was to be penalised for this on the basis of unfounded and unjust allegations.
mr president, in the midst of a deep economic crisis with incalculable social consequences, these two reports are of great importance. they provide a new, modern and comprehensive approach to the multi-dimensional concept of corporate social responsibility and the range of actions that modern enterprises are called upon to develop. the howitt report calls, among other things, for a practical commitment by companies to sustainable economic recovery by securing jobs for young people, women, vulnerable groups, pension sustainability, decent wages and tackling exploitation, so as to ensure labour and human rights within the company. it also calls for the involvement of enterprises in social, cultural and environmental activities for the benefit of society as a whole on a global scale. in the context of the 2013 european year of citizens, for which i am the rapporteur, we support open dialogue with citizens to build trust and transparency about the role of business in the 21st century. we call for more financial support from the structural funds for programmes to educate and train young people and to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the legislative framework governing the markets for pharmaceutical products and the pricing framework for medicines must be modernised. patients should have faster access to cheaper medicines. national health systems, the single market itself and, above all, patients will benefit greatly if the competent authorities in eu member states increase transparency in the decision-making process on the pricing of medicines as well as integrity to reveal any vested interests involved. good practice must be followed faithfully.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new basic regulation because it sets ambitious targets to reverse the negative climate created by the current common fisheries policy (cfp). the long-standing problems of overfishing, declining fisheries and the resulting poor financial situation of many fisheries undertakings must be addressed through the necessary reforms of the common fisheries policy. the draft report proposes objectives, ambitious measures and amendments to the commission proposal to limit intensive overfishing, to restore stocks to the level of maximum sustainable yield by 2015, a transparent system of individual and collective fishing concessions, improved cooperation between member states and the actors involved and, in particular, transitional measures for the mediterranean.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to drastically lower motor vehicle noise limits in order to protect citizens’ health and well-being. this comes in due time given the fact that noise standards for road vehicles have not been updated for 20 years. it is also very important that a noise labelling scheme will be introduced for new cars as well as standards for making electric vehicles audible to pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. overall environmental noise, and the noise generated by transport in particular can cause anxiety, psychological problems, cardiovascular diseases and cognitive impairment of children. according to the world health organization, more than one million healthy years of life are lost every year in western european cities due to noise. it is therefore important to combine vehicle noise limits with effective traffic management, speed limits, improved road surfaces and adapted driver behaviour.
mr president, you have made it clear - and we agree with you in the majority - that turkey is an important partner for the european union, that it is given an important opportunity by the dialogue that has been opened to become part of the european family, on one important condition: that it will respect in all cases the rules of international law and the international legal order and of course the acquis communautaire, the objectives and aspirations of european integration. solidarity and respect for human rights are fundamental rights and obligations of the peoples of europe. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. the human rights of the kurds and of the entire turkish people must be fully respected in practice. the persecution, arrests, imprisonment and murder must be a bad past in turkish politics. the right of every citizen to judge and to have an opinion, to have his own language, is not expropriated, much less blackmailed. the recent provocative murder of three kurdish women in paris must be solved, turkey must help in this direction and the murderers must be brought to justice. the kurdish people, any people, have the right to defend their history and to make the decisions that affect them. i hope, i wish, that turkey will go from being an expansionist country to being a peace-loving country, a european country, a country which respects its peoples and is respected by its peoples.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for understanding; no disrespect. can i make four observations, as this debate is reaching its final stages? first, on the point which has already been mentioned a couple of times, i can confirm that our progress report – and this has been the case for a number of years now – is translated every year by our delegation into turkish and is put on the website of our delegation. the second point i would like to make is that i was happy to note in my meeting yesterday evening with a representative of the bdp party – and i saw some of them observing our discussion – that kurdish politicians and civil society remain fully committed to a successful outcome of these talks. i can only encourage them to maintain this constructive, solution-oriented approach and to resist any provocative action aimed at distracting them from the pursuit of a peaceful solution. we discussed with them what the commission could do to advance the rights of the kurds, and as many of you actually referred to this, i would like to say the following. on the one hand the commission monitors the compliance of turkey with the political criteria, of which respect for the rights of people belonging to minorities is an important component. we raise issues of concern on a regular basis with the turkish authorities and assist them where we can in their reforms. i would mention the work done in the working group for the chapter on the judiciary and fundamental rights (chapter 23) under the positive agenda, in which we are working with turkey on, notably, the adoption of a human rights action plan. i am looking forward to making this chapter available to the member states as an open chapter, so that we can benefit fully from its transformative power. we also have a number of projects financed by the pre-accession instrument in south-east turkey, such as project m for the empowerment of women, a training project for children on mines and other waste products of conflict, and a project in support of local research on disappearances, unsolved murders and mass graves in south-east turkey. but we also have programmes targeting the environment and transport infrastructures. we run projects worth over eur 400 million which benefit, directly or indirectly, the south-east, and obviously, should a wider effort be requested to support a post-conflict and reconciliation strategy, the commission would be ready to support this, including through financial assistance. my final point, if i may: i interpret this debate as strong support for a peaceful solution of the kurdish issue and for current talks stressing, as you rightly did, the wider context for this: reforms in turkey. because of that it has been a very good debate.
mr president, the kurdish issue is a long-standing and unresolved problem in turkey. the uludere incident and the recent killings of the three kurdish women clearly show, once again, how difficult is the road to peace if turkey evades its responsibilities. now is the time for the eu to send a clear message that it encourages an extensive dialogue between the two sides in order to reach a solution. the eu must press turkey to reform its judicial system to protect individual freedoms and respect the rights of all its minorities. there is no excuse for turkey to use terrorism as an alibi for further violations of human rights. let us not underestimate the fact that the kurdish issue and the cyprus issue – as well as the human rights violations in turkey – remain the main obstacles to turkey’s european accession. will turkey show a real political will to move forward to overcome these obstacles by fulfilling all its obligations towards its people, its minorities, its neighbours and the eu? as a cypriot mep, i have my doubts, having monitored turkey’s provocative behaviour towards my country, cyprus, and its people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that more attention should be paid to the environmental impacts of the individual on the microcosm and macrocosm in which he lives, which are a prerequisite for the long-term success of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing. ageing, urbanisation of the european population, europeanisation and globalisation, as well as rapid demographic and spatial changes occurring in the eu, make it necessary to develop a strategic plan for a european partnership on active and healthy ageing, including older people in decision-making, in order to find the appropriate tools, methods and strategies to achieve the target of +2 years of healthy life by 2020.
in writing. − being a member of the s&d, i also voted against the amended report of elisa ferreira. in order to successfully overcome the crisis, the double-dip recession and unemployment in member states and the euro area we call on both the commission and the council to do the following: to adjust the fiscal strategy so as to increase economic activity, growth and public investments without budget cuts; to set a minimum guarantee of social welfare and basic labour rights; to put the compact for growth and jobs into immediate effect and to transform it into concrete investment as agreed in june 2012. we also ask the commission to improve its measures to fight tax evasion, within the eu and in relation to third countries, so as to increase the revenue of the member states by making agreements with non-eu countries that provide policies for financial institutions with tax fraud and evasion activities from outside the eu (e.g switzerland). the eu must lead the fight against tax havens, in the g20 and g8.
in writing. − the ongoing economic crisis has resulted in high levels of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. the situation in the labour market is particularly critical for young people, with unemployment reaching 22.8 % across the eu and youth unemployment exceeding 50 % in countries in southern europe. we therefore urge the european council to ensure that a sufficient level of eu funding is devoted to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. we ask for growth and job creation through structural reforms and growth-targeted investments, as well as for decisive measures to fight youth unemployment. we strongly support the youth guarantee schemes, measures tackling skill mismatches in the labour market, prevention of early drop-out from schools and apprenticeship schemes, as well as the promotion of youth and female entrepreneurship. the fight against poverty and unemployment must be a central element of the eu’s and national social policy agenda.
in writing. − during this period what is most important in taking any measures for uniform handling, policies and actions is the time needed for their implementation. both the commission and the member states should realise that the negative sentiment in the economy and the widening of the gap between the countries of northern and southern europe cannot be dealt with using theories and analysis. what is needed is the implementation of immediate and practical measures for effective, efficient and prompt handling of problems. i fully agree that to achieve real improvements in this matter a more rigorous governance of the single market is needed. shortcomings in the design, implementation, application and enforcement of rules for the single market need to be addressed, with regular assessment of member states, through recommendations of each country. i support the rapporteur’s proposal to act under article 26 of title iii of the tfeu and integrate the governance cycle of the single market in the same cycle of the european semester.
mr president, i congratulate all three rapporteurs for their reports discussing the impact of the economic crisis and of stereotypes on gender equality and women’s rights, not only in the eu but also in north africa. it is true that, since 2009, budgetary cuts and austerity policies severely victimise women, with salary cuts, unemployment, increased pay gaps, more violence and adverse conditions in reconciling family and work life. it is evident that gender equality must be mainstreamed in all policy responses to the crisis, in all education and training policies in the european social fund and in other programmes, so as to enable greater social integration through employment. i urge the commission to keep striving hard to include the gender equality dimension in all facets of the multiannual financial framework, the media policy area and throughout all its external policy relations, in order to combat the silent social crisis which is severely hitting women.
mr president, in the spirit of the day, i would like to refer to the austerity measures imposed by the troika on member states which ask for help from the european union to deal with the economic crisis. the aid proposed to them is not on the basis of solidarity, as it should be, but on the basis of a provenly flawed recessionary methodology. the austerity measures being imposed are not only not helping but are further aggravating the situation. it's not through austerity, cuts in wages and pensions, cutting benefits for the vulnerable and so on, that growth will come. we need to review the regulatory framework within which our policies fall, starting with finding alternatives to austerity. we must find ways of putting the economy back at the service of society, of reducing high unemployment, of ensuring humane working and living conditions, of investing in knowledge and health, because human dignity and life can no longer be trampled on.
mr president, racism, xenophobia, discrimination and its offshoots have spread to a frightening degree and our fellow men are being victimized on a daily basis despite all the laws we have. far-right rhetoric is passed with little impediment, with impunity, tolerance, even applause, and the lack of recording and reporting of attacks and discrimination suggests a huge problem of access to justice, trust in authorities and of course an even worse reality. we must recognize the problem in its proper dimensions and expose it, because it is not sporadic and not independent of the treaties. the criminalization of immigration, the suffocating crowds in detention centers, the lack of consistent integration measures, the lack of access to health and education, the endless war on terrorism, do not help the situation of stereotypes and prejudices. respect and tolerance for our fellow human beings are non-negotiable if we are to build healthy multicultural societies.
in writing. − eu consumers who have disputes with traders over goods or services will now be able to use cheap, fast and fair mediation to settle them, rather than lengthy court cases as in the past. the online consumer dispute resolution enables customers with complaints to handle these matters either online or in a shop, across borders or in their own country. it is true that some eu member states have already adopted alternative dispute resolution (adr) schemes, which have not yet been fully taken into consideration because of a lack of awareness by consumers, patchy coverage or overloading. i voted in favour of this resolution because of its three-fold approach which appears to provide ways to overcome the aforesaid obstacles by: a) requesting the creation of a robust framework of appropriate adr bodies for all business sectors so as to overcome the patchy coverage of adr; b) increasing awareness of existing adr procedures for both traders and consumers; requesting that traders provide relevant information on their websites and documentation; c) harmonising the criteria that should be met, by enabling consumers throughout the eu to have access to high-quality, impartial, independent, fair and transparent adr procedures.
in writing. − water quality is one of the most comprehensively regulated areas of eu health and environmental legislation, because safe drinking water for european citizens is both a right and a core concern of all policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection. the quality of drinking water is currently regulated by council directive 98/83/ec, including the regulation of contaminants such as toxic chemicals and radio nuclides. it does not, however, include respective requirements for monitoring tritium and the total indicative dose and therefore the commission aims to incorporate these requirements into new specific legislation on the basis of the euratom treaty. in view of the importance of water for human health it is necessary to lay down, at eu level, strict quality standards and specifications, as well as appropriate quality control procedures for all radioactive substances. i therefore endorse the amendments introduced by the rapporteur as well as his recommendation that the polluter-pays principle be followed as regards the cost of sampling and monitoring of artificial contamination. the general public has the right to be adequately and transparently informed on the quality of water intended for human consumption.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that started in 2008 had detrimental effects and created financial instability in several member states. the european council has already put the ‘six-pack’ into effect, aiming to reform the stability and growth pact by a broader and enhanced surveillance of fiscal policies and by introducing new macroeconomic policies and structural reforms. i strongly support all actions taken a) to encourage investment in the labour markets of all member states, b) to encourage training, research and viable development so as to make each country more competitive and able to provide european citizens with effective social protection. these, to my mind, are the best ways to fight poverty, maintain social cohesion and encourage civic society to work towards combating the economic crises. i strongly believe that the tragic situation and the detrimental effects of the economic crisis on the countries of southern european, including cyprus, could have been avoided if the eu and all its member states had shown more solidarity, had targeted actions and if appropriate mechanisms to protect the euro had already been in place. i agree with the creation of a system of legal protection applicable to vulnerable member states.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crises exposed shortcomings in economic governance and budgetary surveillance at eu level. the eu and its member states have taken a series of important decisions that strengthen economic and budgetary coordination. the shortcomings were also addressed by the ‘european semester for economic policy coordination’ and the ‘six-pack’. synchronised monitoring of budgetary policies, correction of excessive deficit and surveillance of vulnerable member states are highly important actions especially if they are proactive. i strongly believe that enforcement of budgetary surveillance should always be in compliance with the objectives and values of the eu, and in line with the present challenges of promoting a high level of employment to combat increased unemployment. they should also guarantee adequate social protection. the eu’s budgetary policy should be fully aligned with the new europe 2020 strategy. i have serious doubts, however, whether this is actually the aim of all the member states of the eu and the euro area, having in mind the detrimental effects of austerity measures in southern european countries, the increasing gap between their economies and those of northern europe and the lack of european solidarity. this is why i decided to abstain.
in writing. − social businesses are a growing sector across the eu. through social innovation and local know-how, they create sustainable jobs and long-term growth. they find it hard to access private finance and hence investment funds are needed. the regulation on european social entrepreneurship funds prepares the ground for a european market for social investment funds. the introduction of the ‘european social entrepreneurship funds’ label, helps investors to identify easily funds that focus on investing in european social business (smes and social business). to get the label, 70 % of the capital received from investors should be spent in social business. marketing of the social investments funds will be possible across europe. in that way, the market for social businesses will be greatly supported and investors, along with social businesses, will better reap the benefits of the single market. uniform rules applicable to eusefs should be established, as well as clear rules on their management obligations and procedures, in all member states. i voted in favour of this report because it will benefit both social businesses which will have easier access to investment funds, and many citizens through the creation of inclusive and sustainable jobs across europe.
in writing. − when the economic crisis started in 2008 it had a stronger impact on men’s work, in the industrial sector. the situation has changed since 2009, affecting women mainly in the service sector. budgetary cuts and austerity policies have struck a double blow. budget cuts in social welfare infrastructure, education, childcare, health and care services affect negatively family allowances, maternity leave, single-parent allowances and social security benefits. women are victimised by salary cuts, frozen payments and terminated contracts. they are vulnerable to poverty, unemployment, an increased pay gap and violence. they face adverse conditions in reconciling family and work life. it is evident that gender equality must be mainstreamed in all policy responses to the crisis, in all education and training policies, in the european social fund and in other programmes so as to enable greater social integration through employment. i therefore urge the commission to make use of the recovery plans to enhance women’s rights and to include the gender equality dimension in all facets of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework in order to combat the ongoing silent social crisis mostly affecting vulnerable women.
in writing. − the un platform for action (1995), fully supported by the eu, pointed out the need to overcome gender stereotypes and the misrepresentation of women in the media, stressing also the importance of women’s participation in decision making. 18 years later, gender stereotypes are deeply rooted in societies. they influence perceptions of how men and women should behave. gender mainstreaming approaches have failed to become integrated in the media policy framework. positive images of successful women models in politics, economics, sciences, and other significant paths of life, are invisible. in contrast, the full exploitation of women by media programmes and advertisements is an everyday practice. it is therefore essential to reduce negative gender stereotypes that constrain women’s opportunities. we need to introduce new eu policies and specific legislation in the areas of education, media and advertising, the labour market and political decision-making; to strengthen the degree of implementation of gender mainstreaming in the media policy area; to empower the structural power determinants; to push forward for real opportunities in the institutional structures; and to exercise strong political influence in promoting gender upon the policy process. for all these reasons, we strongly urge synergies and collaboration of all stakeholders.
in writing. − a high level of environmental protection is one of the fundamental objectives of the eu. however, according to the latest environment reports, there is a serious implementation gap in key areas such as biodiversity, water, waste and air. this unsatisfactory level of implementation of environmental law not only harms the environment and human health, but it also creates uncertainty for industry and obstacles to the single market. the annual cost of non-implementation of eu environmental legislation is currently eur 50 billion in health costs and direct costs to the environment, rising to eur 90 billion from 2020 onwards. i endorse the report’s contents and the measures envisaged to assure a more efficient implementation, which include among others: dissemination of best practices between member states at national, regional and local level; improvement of the knowledge and capacity of all people involved in implementing the legislation; the set up of partnership implementation agreements, and of a systematic and easily accessible online information tool. the report proposes a number of initiatives on improved inspections and surveillance, criteria for dealing with citizens’ complaints, better access to justice in environmental matters and support for european networks of environmental professionals.
in writing. − since the eighth century a.d, women in north africa have struggled with life under a male-dominated culture, which relegated them to second-class citizenship. sexual harassment, rape, lack of education, forced marriages and a lot of mistreatment including all kinds of violence, genital mutilation and gendercides were part of persisting cultural and social norms. only in the 1970s were women and girls given equal opportunities in high school and collegiate athletics. only in the 1990s did the civil rights act and the women’s rights movement pave the way for sexual harassment legislation, to combat unwelcome sexual advances. only in the 1980s were laws created to protect women from acquaintance rape. only in 1993 was the family medical leave act established covering maternity leave for birth or adoptive parents. positive changes seem to have happened during recent years, but they happen at a very slow pace. we therefore urge the eu to underline the importance of gender mainstreaming throughout all its external policies, actions and relations, and to promote human rights, democracy gender equality and gender education as part of all economic and technical assistance to developing countries and north africa, thus empowering women in this area of the world.
in writing. my vote in favour is confined to rejecting the council agreement as it stands. the resolution unfortunately does not contradict the policies underpinning the mff or the objectives it serves, but explicitly supports its alignment with the eu 2020 strategy. the agreement is a political and economic translation of the objectives embedded in the new treaty with an over-emphasis on 'business' competitiveness, security and defence, with serious cuts from cohesion policy. i reject the 'lisabonisation' of the economic prospects of the eu and its condemnation to a vicious cycle of fiscal austerity without growth and prospects for real prosperity at the level of citizens.
in writing. − endocrine disruptors are substances that are associated with various human health problems. they are present in food packaging, skincare products, cosmetics, building materials, electronic goods, furniture and floorings. it is impossible for a consumer to know what substances are present in what products, particularly in the case of goods with no list of ingredients. it is important to restrict the use of endocrine disruptors in products aimed at specific target groups, such as skincare products, textiles and toys with specific areas of application. more stringent safety requirements could also be applied when building and furnishing pre-schools and schools and other premises where children stay for prolonged periods. a coherent definition and strictly defined criteria for their use are lacking, which are necessary preconditions to better regulating those chemicals. i voted in favour of this report because amongst other matters, it underlines that legal measures need to be taken to effectively lower the exposure of humans to edcs. it stresses the need for criteria for edcs to be based on hazard assessment, as no safe thresholds can be set. in general, greater emphasis should be put on the precautionary principle in the ongoing review of the eu’s strategy on eds.
in writing. − having in mind that we are currently in the fifth year of the ongoing economic crisis, strengthening the eu’s partnership with the world’s second-largest economy and biggest exporter in the world, china, is of great importance. whilst strengthening the economic ties with china, we have to take into consideration that this country has emerged into an increasingly important global political power; it is therefore of primary importance that the basis for our partnership entails universal values, such as the promotion of democracy and human rights, global and regional security and energy security. regardless of the economic crisis, compliance with the rules set by the international labour organisation is vital. it is our belief that china must comply with minimum social standards and encourage social responsibility. at this point we have to stress that eu should have zero tolerance on goods produced in factories which use child labour or operate under gross human rights violations.
in writing. − the postponement until 2014 is disappointing as it undermines the importance of the directive. however, differences between member states regarding discrimination in access to and supply of goods and services, and the interpretation and enforcement of the directive in the national case law do exist and need to be addressed. one of the other issues to be seriously considered is sex discrimination in media and advertising and certainly the role of education in combating the creation, sustainability, revival and development of gender-based stereotypes. we support all provisions for protection of women during pregnancy and maternity in several member states. however there must be a thorough check that this directive is correctly implemented in national legislation. furthermore, we support better monitoring of national equality bodies. we must make sure that they fulfil their tasks and meet the requirements set at eu level. we encourage the exchange of best practices between national equality bodies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the speakers who have actually supported cyprus - most of them have. but i want to say that, in my view, we are here and we are part of a theatre. the representatives of this parliament support us, and i am referring in particular to the representatives of the european people's party, but when they are in their governments they do the opposite. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what did the representatives of the european people's party in their governments do when they decided in the eurogroup to cut off the cypriot deposits? what they did is the exact opposite. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have the impression that the commission representatives, with all due respect, are also playing a part in this theatre. they do not listen to what the representatives of the people in parliament are saying. what they do is they pass the time, they give us some standard answers and then they go to their offices to decide something completely different from what the people's representatives are thinking. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the question of cyprus, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. it is very important to bear this in mind, and i am telling you clearly that as soon as cyprus is able to get back on its feet, it will consider the possibility of saying goodbye to you, regardless of the consequences, because this is an expression of dignity. the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy, but it is prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy. the solidarity that existed was the solidarity of the lion in the forest, solidarity towards smaller creatures of the forest. would the eurogroup do the same to a larger state? why did he not do it for greece, which is also a small country? can he do it for italy, spain, france or germany? i never will. he did it because cyprus is a small country. this is the solidarity they know. and as for the european central bank and its famous supervision: where was this 'supervision' when the people's bank of cyprus expanded its operations in greece? what was this famous surveillance he had? he let things develop on their own and he didn't think about trying to cut deposits in greece - and i'm not saying this because i'm in favour of it, of course i'm against it - but if he tried to cut deposits it would create systemic risk. this is proof that they acted in this way because cyprus is considered a small state. by the end of 2011, cyprus had a public debt to gdp ratio below the euro area average: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained, and that the budgetary discipline is maintained. it is a handful of bankers and the lack of supervision by the european central bank that have brought the problems. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, mr minister, commissioners, the economic situation in cyprus is indeed tragic and cypriot society is deeply disappointed in the european union because the implementation of community solidarity has in practice proved to be a blank slate. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i hope that we can clarify what the rule of law is and what the principles and values on which the european union is founded are. the republic of cyprus has, since its establishment, had some inherent problems which were greatly aggravated by the turkish invasion of 1974. i would remind you that in 1974 cyprus lost 40% of its territory, 55% of its coastline, 90% of its tourist infrastructure, its large fertile plain, while 40% of its population became refugees and have since been living in refugee settlements which i am sure you have never seen. the best service and the best investment that turkey can offer to cyprus, mr cohn-bendit, is to get up and leave. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to that question. so allow turkey to invest in your own large and strong economies. we know what turkey is and we don't want it to save us. after the invasion, the cypriot economy was able to develop on the basis of only two pillars: tourism and the financial sector. we have no heavy industry, no land to develop agriculture. the tourism sector, because of its proximity to war zones, has been hit repeatedly over the last twenty-five years, and i remind you how many times a statement was issued about the danger of cyprus because it is adjacent to war zones in the middle east. the decisions of the eurogroup are now dealing a fatal blow to the financial sector. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. but on the other hand, it is unfair to punish the people with a novel recipe of doubtful effectiveness in the logic of 'shock therapy' as if the citizens are experimental animals. the behaviour of the so-called troika towards the cypriot people is cruel and unacceptable. commissioner rehn, are you aware that the european union has made serious mistakes in its handling of the cyprus problem? for example, mr draghi gave almost ten billion in liquidity to the people's bank without adequate controls, an amount that should have been recovered from the bank's own collateral and not charged to depositors. today the market is not working. citizens are not paid. healthy businesses are collapsing and confidence in the cypriot financial system is being lost, as are thousands of jobs.... (the president interrupts)
mr president, the banking sector in cyprus, the key economic sector for job creation and growth, has been cut by 50% since the 'haircut'. what would really happen if, as a result of a decision by the european union, the german car industry saw its sales fall by 50%? what would happen in france if its agricultural production were to fall by 50%? what would happen to the netherlands if its exports fell by 50%? unfortunately, things are simple with cyprus. they have no complications and no hidden escape routes. in an unprecedented wisdom, the eurogroup has blown up one of the two sectors for wage and job creation in the cypriot economy. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how sustainable can a debt be in a country which has no potential for growth? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore turn to the council and the commission and ask them what they are going to do to bring about this change.
mr president, cyprus applied to the european stability mechanism for assistance because of the impairment of the greek debt that cost cyprus eur 4.5 billion, or 25% of its gdp. instead of solidarity, the eurogroup punished cyprus by destroying overnight its economic model. it imposed an unfair ‘haircut’, thus destroying the prosperity and aspirations of cypriots, and spreading mistrust all over europe. the eurogroup blackmailed cyprus into choosing between bankruptcy or a haircut. it gave the new government no time to make reforms. it forced another southern european country into the troika’s arms and into a vicious circle of austerity, recession and unemployment. while the european parliament has been excluded, the troika – which has no democratic legitimacy – has been called in to rescue cyprus by destroying its economy in order to save it. this is ironic. i strongly protest against the unjust allegations against cyprus and urge the eurogroup, the commission and the ecb to revoke their wrong decisions, to help cyprus restart its economy with development projects for growth and jobs, to give adequate funding, to stop killing hopes and to stop experimenting with our lives.
mr president, more europe is the answer. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. we want a europe of solidarity and not a europe of competition. the european union is not only responsible for the economic crisis in cyprus, which has not only affected cyprus, but also for the cypriot bankers, the european supervisory authorities and the political leaders in our country. but these mistakes are certainly not the fault of the european cypriot citizens who are now paying the cost and who expected more community solidarity instead of the bankruptcy they are experiencing. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the cypriot people, despite the sense of gross injustice, will not leave europe, as i have heard from the left, but will fight within europe to make it better.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has had a severe impact on all member states, provoking a deterioration in their public finances, balance of payments and overall debt. updating regulation (ec) no 332/2002 is a step forward to ensuring a level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states and to simplifying the procedures for activating the bop facility, and this is why i voted in favour of this report. on the one hand, non-euro area member states should allow their banks to be recapitalised when needed by the european central bank so as to provide an even more level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states. on the other hand there must be limits to the amount of help to be given to non-euro area member states. furthermore, non-euro area members must be obliged to help all member states, within and outside the euro area, when they are in a state of financial emergency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because i recognise the need for the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force as regards the european union as soon as possible. the hague convention provides for free legal assistance in child maintenance cases and effective measures for the rapid enforcement of maintenance judgments. therefore, it marks a major step forward in the development of a global system for enforcement of child support obligations in transnational cases. today it is more important than ever that international child support is enforced, because more and more parents cross international borders leaving children behind. all legal and practical obstacles should therefore be overcome, so that the maximum support reaches both the child and its parents.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to congratulate all those who have worked for croatia's accession. we, the european united left, are in favour of the croatian people and croatia joining the european union, if that is the wish of the croatian people. we welcome the progress made in the field of refugee return, gender equality and bridging the gap with neighbouring countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the croatian economy, and the european union is committed to the development of the croatian economy. we support croatia in promoting genuine social development through the modernisation of the social protection system with development measures to tackle unemployment, to improve access to services, in particular health, housing and education to ensure a better quality of life for all. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the only force which can be called upon to take action. and one more thing: the very high turnout in the last european elections in croatia sends a message that should concern us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i have been in this parliament for a few years and i have the impression that this report is actually slowly reflecting the balances within parliament rather than looking at turkey's deep structural problems. this should not be the job of meps. it may be the work of governments, it may be the work of diplomats, it may be the work of the commission. parliament cannot work in a way that keeps the balance so that a or b does not get angry. the kurdish question is a huge issue. how can this report be pushed in the right direction? here they put a man in prison because on the shop window of his shop he had a picture, and this picture looked like öcalan, and they tell us that they are negotiating with öcalan? there's a trick. turkey is not ready to move in the right direction to solve a problem which is, i admit, complex and enormous. but we, if we want to help, we have to be honest. we must give directions for the solution and not just talk. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in cyprus. every year, the report calls for 'the immediate withdrawal of turkish troops and the surrender of the city of famagusta to its inhabitants'. what is turkey's response? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is turkey's response: its threats against cyprus's rights to exploit its undersea wealth. does such behaviour provide an incentive for cyprus or another state to open up the energy sector as the report calls for?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is time to be clear about what we agree and what binds us, but also what we must do, demand, react to, which also binds us. we agree that turkey is an important partner of the european union, but we must also demand that turkey respect the european union in practice. this is the condition for joining the european family. we talk about what he should have done to democratize it, but more importantly, it's what he didn't do and what he should have done. her participation is not à la carte. human rights, like freedom of the press, are stifled and restricted. journalists and kurdish citizens fighting for democracy and freedom are being imprisoned in summary proceedings. gender equality is currently unthinkable. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish cypriots are not in a position to take part in the negotiations on the cyprus agreement. i would remind you of the provocative and unacceptable statements made by turkish officials, which they should now retract and apologize for. president gül, 23 november 2011, referring to the republic of cyprus: 'half a country will be called upon to lead a miserable union'. are we really that bad? the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. would any of you accept that for your country? in conclusion, as long as turkey behaves, if i may use the expression, like a 'crazy truck', it has no future in its march towards the european union.
mr president, i understand how difficult it is for mrs oomen-ruijten to write the report on the evaluation of turkey's accession process. i also understand how difficult it is to make compromises because of the multiple and conflicting interests and because our decisions are not always guided by the european acquis and international law but by a convergence of positions. for example, we are now thinking of the huge volume of trade that the european union has with turkey. turkey has indeed made progress and reforms, but it is itself that is hindering its accession. i would like you to understand my position, as i come from a country occupied by the turkish army. turkey, while continuing its occupation and threats, is now raising the issue of the presence of turkish cypriot observers in the european parliament. in fact, commissioner, what he is seeking is to represent the pseudo-state and to promote and legitimize the partition. the turkish cypriots can also comfortably and freely take part in the european elections as citizens of the republic of cyprus. the republic of cyprus protects all its citizens and, of course, turkish cypriots who, moreover, enjoy privileges not enjoyed by other citizens and all the privileges guaranteed by the status of citizen of the republic of cyprus. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. international law must be respected. the council of ministers shall adopt the following decisions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in cyprus is not jeopardized. to contribute to the settlement of the cyprus problem on the basis of the principles and values of the european union and the european acquis. the commissioner, the republic of cyprus, at this time last year, accepted the positive agenda, but you know very well, especially you, what turkey's response to the attitude of the cypriot state has been. in spite of my reservations on certain points, i shall vote in favour of mrs oomen-ruijten's report, but with reasons, out of respect for the very difficult work she is doing. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer is "blue card". turkey certainly enjoys a privileged treatment. i think everybody understands that. it has certainly not complied with many of the explicit conditions imposed on it by the european union, it has not implemented the 21 september declaration, it has not implemented the ankara protocol and yet it continues to talk to the european union, it does not recognise the republic of cyprus, it does not accept the cypriot presidency, it threatens in words and deeds the republic of cyprus's attempt to bring its natural wealth to the surface from the bottom of the sea and yet, despite all this, nothing is happening. i asked the commissioner the same question some time ago about turkey's behaviour. i think that we should finally respect the principles and values of the european union and not the volume of trade the union has with turkey.
mr president, mr zahradil and mr cohn-bendit seem to ignore the fact that turkey, a candidate country for accession, continues to illegally occupy 37% of the territory of cyprus after almost 39 years, violating human rights and international and european law. once again i call on you to send a clear message to turkey stating that, if it desires eu accession, it must fully comply with all its economic, political and human rights obligations: to have good neighbourhood relations, to implement the ankara protocol, to recognise the republic of cyprus and the issues of single international personality, single sovereignty and single citizenship. it is thus unacceptable to discuss amendments to grant observer status to turkish-cypriot representatives, as this would violate international law and the treaty establishing the european community. it is unacceptable to open ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, since there have been calls for the opening up of the energy capital and for the representation of the turkish cypriots in parliament, which may sound right and fair on the surface, i should like to explain why these proposals, if adopted, would circumvent basic principles of the european union. first, we recall that the principle of the sovereign equality of peoples is a fundamental principle of the functioning of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, as regards the issue of representation of turkish cypriots in parliament, we believe that this is a position which encourages those in the turkish cypriot community who seek a two-state solution. the republic of cyprus has not deprived any citizen of cyprus, greek cypriot or turkish cypriot, of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the european elections.
in writing. − the report highlights the impact of the economic crisis upon economic, social and political rights. though the full scale of this impact is yet to be ascertained, it is clear that enhanced social unrest which has sometimes led to violent repression has been experienced in several countries. the report recalls the eu’s determination to defend and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. these consist of the right to food, water, education, adequate housing, land, decent work, health and social security. while the economic crisis has impacted severely on the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights, there is no justification for states, whatever their level of income, to compromise on their obligation to respect fundamental human rights. particular care must be taken of the most vulnerable groups, which includes the poor, women, children, elderly people and people with disabilities. there is a need for the eu to strengthen european aid, to focus on the poorest countries, especially the countries of the european south and to combat food insecurity and unemployment. therefore, i voted in favour of the report as i support that priority should be given to the universal implementation of human rights, taking into account the economic crisis and focusing on the poorest and most vulnerable people.
in writing. − this regulation proposed by the commission aims to establish a common framework for the systematic production of union statistics on demography, harmonising the collection, compilation, processing, and transmission of statistics by member states on population and vital events. such a harmonisation at union level will certainly improve the current quality of statistical data, fulfilling coherence and comparability requirements, based on common statistical concepts and operational objectives, without entailing additional burdens on member states. even though the report could be regarded as a technical one, the file was regarded as highly controversial and political, due to its link to qualified majority voting in the council. as a shadow rapporteur, i do take these worries seriously into consideration as they could penalise some eu countries whose thousands of nationals live abroad. even though the amended proposal was approved, the vote on the legislative resolution laying down the rules was postponed to allow time for informal talks with the council. i look forward to these talks.
in writing. − i would like to express my disappointment because a candidate country for accession illegally and provocatively occupies 37% of my country. for 39 years it has been violating human rights, and international and european law. i strongly believe that turkey must comply fully with all its obligations and stop asking for special treatment. i was very surprised that turkey rejected the content of ria oomen’s report by creating its own country progress report. with such attitudes by a candidate country, i am not optimistic for turkey’s real intentions as far as its accession is concerned. it is unacceptable to discuss amendments to grant observer status for the representation of the turkish cypriots. in cyprus there is only one recognised state, the republic of cyprus. turkish cypriots, as citizens of the republic of cyprus, can take part in the european elections. there should be no direct or indirect recognition of the pseudo-state. the opening of new negotiation chapters for turkey and/or the acceptance of direct trade are inconceivable because in this manner eu rewards the audacity of turkey. i voted against this report because i disagree with the opening of new chapters.
in writing. the oomen-ruijten report on turkey sets out the preconditions and elements that form the framework for a comprehensive and just solution to the cyprus problem: the withdrawal of turkish troops, the return of the varangians, illegal settlement, the implementation of the ankara protocol. the european council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup in iraq. i voted against this report in the committee on foreign affairs because i disagree with the content of paragraphs 24 and 55 which refer to opening of the accession chapters 23, 24 and 15 which are blocked by cyprus because of the unacceptable turkish attitude to the policies to which those chapters relate. turkey cannot be rewarded by opening chapter 15 (energy) for its harassment of the cypriot eez. however, recognising the rapporteur's principled stance in the face of intense pressure from the pro-turkish lobby to incorporate in her report dichotomous provisions on cyprus (entry of turkish cypriot observers into the european parliament, adoption of the direct trade regulation), i voted in favour of her report today in plenary, expressing my reservations on paragraphs 24 and 55.
in writing. − i gave a positive vote to the turkish progress report. however, i feel the obligation to stress the following: 1. the responsibility regarding the unresolved cyprus issue belongs to turkey which still occupies european soil. 2. an agreement regarding the re-opening of the famagusta port by the legal authorities of the republic of cyprus must be in line with eu values and principles without undermining the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the republic of cyprus. 3. chapters 23, 24 and 15 cannot be opened as the turkish government still occupies cyprus and violates the human rights of european citizens, while at the same time it threatens cyprus in the exclusive economic zone and thereby violating the international law of the sea which is an integral part of the european legal system.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the proposal she has just announced to us, a proposal for a relocation forum which we will certainly study. but this proposal cannot replace the promised proposal for a common relocation programme. the european commission's failure to propose anything concrete on the relocation of refugees puts it at odds with the overwhelming majority of parliament, which voted in favour of a report on solidarity in the area of asylum on 11 september 2012. today, mr president, more than ever, in the midst of the worst economic crisis europe is going through in its modern history, there is a need to support member states facing disproportionate responsibilities. i am of course aware of the challenges posed by such a mechanism and the objections of some member states. however, this should not prevent the commission from honouring its commitments and publishing a proposal proposing a mechanism based on the eurema assessment, which would allow for the relocation of refugees between member states, in order to adequately protect the rights of refugees and to help member states facing specific and disproportionate pressures to cope successfully.
mr president, the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance is a matter of numbers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. honest, clean, tax-paying citizens rightly question our intentions. this is how euroscepticism is reinforced. the truth is this: there is a lack of a single, integrated, planned tax collection policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. it is also well known that powerful states in the european union encourage and support tax evasion - states with names. what is required is the withdrawal of licences from banks that are proven to be involved in tax evasion, the strengthening of a single tax collection policy within the european union, the adoption of stricter repressive measures. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − enhancing cooperation between the eu and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation will ensure a more safe and efficient utilisation of airspace and the air traffic management system within and beyond the eu. closer cooperation between all member states should also help towards cutting carbon emissions and other environmental issues. moreover it will facilitate the consolidation of the european aviation industry by allowing low-cost carriers to enter new markets which were previously prevented from operating in member states. all agreements made between member states and third countries should fulfil eu law and regulations. with this in mind, i strongly protest at the operation of the illegal tymvou airport in the occupied area of cyprus, which allows flights coming from within and outside the eu, thus violating relevant un resolutions and creating serious risks and unsafe conditions in cyprus air traffic space and the safety management of air navigation, in violation of eu and iata regulations.
in writing. − it still remains a key challenge for balkan region countries to ensure women’s rights and gender equality in practice. therefore, the main aim of this report on women’s rights in the balkan accession countries is to focus on the challenges and obstacles that need to be overcome. the report formulates recommendations and makes concrete calls on montenegro, serbia, former yugoslav republic of macedonia, albania, bosnia, herzegovina and kosovo to adapt their laws, policies, budgets and institutional frameworks in order to address gender issues and implement gender equality. as the population in most of these countries is not fully aware of the existing legislation and policies on gender equality, it is important that both the commission and the respective governments foster awareness through the media, public campaigns and education programmes. promoting gender equality and ensuring practical implementation of women’s rights is a vital part of the accession process of these countries, as gender equality remains a fundamental value of the eu, enshrined in its treaty. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − freedom of expression and information is a cornerstone of good governance and thriving democracy. the european union is committed to respecting freedom and pluralism of the media, as enshrined in the treaties, but this should be done not only within its own member states but also beyond its borders, in particular where the eu has clear responsibilities such as with regard to enlargement. in this sense, i strongly believe that a free and pluralist media environment must be a precondition for eu membership. hence, the alarmingly high number of journalists imprisoned, detained or prosecuted in candidate countries for accession, such as turkey, highlights the need to take proper action. we must say ‘no’ to restrictions on the freedom of opinion and ‘yes’ to free and pluralistic media in order to sustain european democracy. above all, a pluralistic and vibrant media landscape enhances citizens’ participation in public debate, which is vital for a well-functioning democratic system. it is essential to adopt concrete measures in order to ensure media transparency and pluralism and to promote journalistic standards. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − eurozone countries are suffering greatly from the current economic crisis, whose detrimental consequences are visible and negatively affect present and future generations of workers and pensioners. in countries with pay-as-you-go systems, under which pensions are funded from the current national budget, pensioners are already experiencing cuts because of inadequate financial allocations. the report calls for a number of measures to be taken which are relevant to retirement policies and pension schemes. among others, it calls for raising employment rates, balancing time spent in work and retirement, developing complementary private retirement savings and protecting workers’ occupational pensions in the event of insolvency. the report provides a good starting point for achieving an overall solid agreement on safe and sustainable pensions for europeans. while preserving and respecting fully the responsibilities of member states and social partners on the issue, we can only hope for the gradual development and establishment of a more secure, adequate and safer system, contributing to greater labour-market mobility and freedom of movement. i voted in favour of this report, believing that it could be beneficial for present and future generations of europeans.
mr president, the financial crisis that is afflicting europe has revealed serious weaknesses in the financial sector, disparities in banking regulation, national provisions and national rescue mechanisms, a lack of european coordination, and informal procedures for mutual support and cooperation. the case of cyprus, with its unfair and blackmailing decisions by the eurogroup and the democratically unlegitimised presence of the troika, which behaves dictatorially and imposes strict austerity policies and deposit-cutting, demonstrates the extent to which the systemic risk to the euro area and the euro is systemic. the case of cyprus has highlighted the unreliability of the european system for the protection of deposits. it showed the lack of community solidarity. unfortunately, it seems that the technocrats are more concerned with numbers thriving and people falling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. cyprus has shown how necessary the banking union is. her case is not unique, however much mr dijsselbloem tries to isolate her. cyprus is the fourth country in the eurozone to ask international lenders for help in recapitalising its banks. there is a negative interaction between the states and the banking systems. there is a different attitude - one is a deposit haircut and another a debt haircut. the two-meter policy of both stations cannot continue. it is not possible for ordinary depositors to pay for the errors, omissions, weaknesses and shortcomings of the commission, mr olli rehn and mr draghi. the cypriots cannot be held responsible for these mistakes, the cypriots who have been suffering since 1974 the consequences of the turkish invasion and who are unfortunately now experiencing a new unjust neo-colonial economic policy. we need a supervisory mechanism within the european central bank and we need to strengthen community solidarity, apply uniform rules and adopt a consistent approach towards all member states without discrimination. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue card". i have been asked two questions. the first concerns the lack of solidarity i mentioned. no, 10 billion euros is not enough. the fact that cyprus was forced to borrow eur 4.5 billion, equivalent to 25% of gdp, without any support and without any assistance from the european central bank, to reach the eurogroup decision on greece means that the amount requested for support, eur 5.8 billion, was very small. the amount was not given to us. on the contrary, millions of euros were given to prove that cyprus is not undergoing systemic risk. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe, and we are very pleased that the european union has taken the initiative to establish a european monetary system. the solidarity we asked for, €5.8 billion, we did not get it at the right time. the new president of cyprus was faced with a dilemma: insolvent bankruptcy or a haircut. it was a matter of blackmail, not of community solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what many newspapers in germany and elsewhere wrote many months before the haircut, accusing the cypriots of being "gangsters" and the greeks of being lazy! the aim was precisely to impose a haircut on cyprus. this is an injustice which is not substantiated, when the council of europe report points to other countries which have been the subject of much more serious allegations of money laundering.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in preparing the next multiannual programme for the area of freedom, security and justice, it is not enough to list the proposals put forward by the commission or approved by the co-legislators, but a genuine qualitative rather than a quantitative check is required. we need to assess our position in relation to the rights or security dilemma. in our view, progress is always being made on security issues, such as 'fast-track' or 'smart borders', but the process is noticeably slow when it comes to fundamental rights such as access to documents or data protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. could you, commissioner, tell us which policies will be further downgraded in the next programme to make it possible to finance the 'smart border' proposal? this qualitative review must also assess the new interinstitutional arrangements introduced by the treaty of lisbon from the point of view of democratic legitimacy. in our experience, we find that parliament is systematically excluded from the decision-making process in order to entertain the concerns of the member states in the council. i would like to remind you that in order to overcome the impasse in the council on eurodac, the commission has presented a new proposal, completely ignoring parliament's first reading position.
madam president, it is encouraging that parliament, the cyprus and irish presidencies of the council, and the commission have successfully concluded their negotiations on this file, thus complementing the existing european protection order directive on criminal cases with the relevant directive on civil matters. the combination of these two epo instruments ensures the highest possible protection measures for victims of gender violence, stalking or abduction. at a time of intense free movement, and given that one in four women experiences multiple violence in the course of her lifetime, the new directive aims to establish an efficient mechanism to ensure that victims already granted protection in civil matters in one eu member state will enjoy mutual recognition throughout the eu and be eligible for further information and assistance. protection procedures are simplified; victims only need to fill in an easily comprehensible form in an acceptable language in order to obtain a standard, multilingual certificate of protection. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their good work.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. the first is the troika, which is not democratically legitimized, since it is not accountable to either the european parliament or a national parliament. the troika imposes strict austerity policies on the countries of the european south without development and without investment and is essentially destroying the peoples economically and socially. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the case of cyprus, mr rehn, i think the european parliament has simply come to do the post mortem because the eurogroup's policies were wrong and because the decision to cut deposits was unfortunately unfair and unprecedented. and i wonder, can we correct the mistakes made by the european central bank and the eurogroup with legislation alone? i want an answer to the question and the question is how to support the cypriot people today because i do not believe that this can be done with future legislation.
in writing. − according to tax research uk, an overwhelming eur 1 trillion is lost every year in the 27 eu member states due to tax avoidance and tax evasion. at times of unprecedentedly high unemployment levels, mostly in southern europe, with many national governments forced to implement austerity programmes and radical cuts in government expenditure in order to avoid default, it is annoying to know that tax fraud and tax evasion costs each european citizen eur 2 000 per year. it is evident that these funds are lost, instead of being used for investment in growth and job creation and to help european governments cope with their public deficits so as to reverse the current situation and reignite growth. i fully support the eu’s efforts to take strong, coordinated and simultaneous actions at both european and national level. the eu must develop a comprehensive strategy based on concrete legislation and be committed to a specific target, that is, to combat the tax gap. it must introduce a new effective initiative against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens, without double standards within europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. i have reservations about paragraph 25 and declare that i am not bound by it because it is too general and because it is not clear whether the system it introduces can serve the interest of the union as a whole and of each member state individually, given that each country operates taxationally on the basis of specific characteristics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report. however, i wish to underline my reservation – therefore i will not commit myself – regarding paragraph 25 of the report, as it is not yet clear whether the type of system for which this certain paragraph provides will harm the sovereign rights of member states or not, and whether it will be against the common european interests, since economic and social disparities still exist in the eu.
mr president, the situation in syria is tragic beyond measure. the human tragedy of over 70,000 dead, of countless victims, of the uprooting so far of 1.5 million people, including unfortunately 600,000 children, of the use of sexual violence against women and girls, even in the camps of the neighbouring states where they are seeking protection, demands that the vicious circle of violence be broken now. the european union and the entire international community must provide the necessary humanitarian aid without discrimination. the palestinians, who used to live in syria and are now becoming refugees for the second time, deserve special attention. the conflict in the region must end immediately, as must the external interventions spearheaded by the united states, turkey and israel. what the syrian people need is a political solution by the syrians for the syrians now, before it is too late for the country and its people. otherwise, the further deterioration of the situation will have disastrous consequences for the entire middle east region.
mr commissioner, all of us who have believed in revolutionary change know that a revolution must bring something better than what it chases, than what it overturns. unfortunately in syria the rebels are much worse than the dictator they want to overthrow. i experienced them firsthand in the homs area last november when i volunteered as a doctor to help them. the attack by the so-called revolutionaries and the syrian army against ethnic and religious minorities and the violence they are inflicting on them has led to thousands of people becoming refugees. the syrian refugee issue is the tragic impact of a civil war that threatens regional security. the issue is primarily humanitarian - we cypriots know very well what it means to be a refugee. today, the european union is called upon to support refugees in syria and the host countries. i think, commissioner, that today's resolution on guidelines is positive, but it is not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the continuing conflict in the former yugoslavia. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the united nations seems to be failing to meet this role. i would also like to see a 'humanitarian task force' set up to intervene in refugee reception areas and take on the key role of managing aid in cooperation with the host countries. the numbers of refugees are known. what is not sufficiently known is that a significant number of refugees of armenian origin, perhaps numbering in the tens of thousands, have taken refuge in armenia, which is a poor country that cannot support them and therefore needs immediate assistance. the european union cannot delegate its stabilising role to others and must take the initiative and not remain outside the political game.
in writing. − the situation in syria is tragic, with over 70 000 dead, 1 500 000 refugees of whom 600 000 are children, and more people internally displaced. increased humanitarian aid is needed to cover increasing numbers of refugees, with special attention needed for the palestinian refugees fleeing the conflict, who have now been made refugees for the second time. special protection is needed for women and girls becoming victims of sexual violence and marriages of convenience. to this plight there can be no other solution but a political one. we call for an immediate end to the fighting, full respect for international humanitarian law, and the immediate termination of all external intervention, to allow for the commencement of a process towards a negotiated political solution. the geopolitical game played on the land of syria, victimising the syrian people, should stop. the future of the syrian people should rest firmly in the hands of the syrians. we demand that the eu sticks to the embargo on the export of arms and military equipment to syria. arms and military equipment, including ‘non-lethal’ items, lead to an escalation of the conflict, more victims and more refugees. the spillover into neighbouring countries is visible and threatens with unpredictable and unprecedented consequences the whole of the middle east and beyond.
mr president, electromagnetic fields do have short- and long-term health effects on workers exposed to them. after long negotiations, we finally have a report on the proposed new directive which sets specifications in order to guarantee worker safety and health while maintaining derogations for mri scanners and for certain military users. the report strikes a good balance between the eu’s obligation to protect workers without underestimating the contribution of mri technology to public health research. in this respect, we welcome all efforts to maintain common safety standards, to put in place vigorous protection measures, strict controls and training in safety procedures, as well as to enforce regular risk assessments and preventive measures by employers. moreover, we welcome the commission’s obligation to respond and update the legislation and to provide a non-binding guide to good practice before the transpositional period of the directive, as well as to eliminate further loopholes. we therefore ask the commission for further research and the collection of data on the effects of long-term exposure to electro-magnetic fields. i wish, of course, also to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadows.
in writing. − this report is the european parliament’s response to the draft european consumer agenda, published in may 2012 by the commission for 2014-2020. today, the globalisation of markets, the digitisation of the economy, financial deregulation, and the ageing population of europe, create a new combination of challenges for the consumers of the union. furthermore, the ongoing financial crisis complicates the decisions to be taken by consumers and makes the need for efficient, transparent, reliable and comparable information, a necessity. top priority should be given to consumer empowerment. in addition, special protection should be offered to groups of people who are particularly vulnerable because of their physical or psychological condition or age, or who become vulnerable through their social or financial status, so as to have access to basic services and the financial resources needed. i voted in favour of this report because key concerns such as the need for redressing measures, for more transparent consumer information and for additional support for consumer organisations were included.
in writing. − legal aid in cross-border civil and commercial disputes is important for european citizens as it ensures that people who cannot afford legal aid will have the right of access to justice in other member states. however, more must be done to make people aware of the existence of cross-border legal aid, as citizens’ awareness of their rights under the directive remains low. furthermore, the commission and member states must help overcome communication problems between the lawyer and client by setting up databases of legal practitioners who have skills in the relevant language and foreign legal system required. member states could appoint a single transmitting and receiving authority for each jurisdiction, made up of experienced officials, to make the process easier and faster for european citizens bearing in mind that each member state has its own threshold and guidelines for awarding legal aid to individuals, the certificate granted to them by the authority in one member state should be accepted in another. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this revised ep proposal, because it strengthens both the rules on health surveillance and on the records to be established, regarding risks, prevention and protection measures. the proposal maintains a good balance between the eu’s obligation to protect workers’ health, while recognising mri’s contribution to public health research. it does not underestimate the risks associated to workers’ short and long-term exposure to electromagnetic fields and also to mri procedures. it does underline, however, that the medical sector has already put in place rigorous protection measures, strict controls and training in mri safety procedures. moreover the commission will respond and update the legislation if long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields are discovered, so as to eliminate further loopholes. in addition, as commissioner andor mentioned at the plenary, a non-binding guide to good practice will be in place before the transposition period of the directive, which is july 2016. the commission must: encourage further research on the risks arising from physical agents, collect more data on the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields and ensure that employers eliminate or reduce risks as much as possible, through risk assessment and other preventive measures.
in writing. − in its mid-term report the crim committee analyses and evaluates the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and proposes several actions to combat all these phenomena. besides legislative proposals the committee recommends the institution of european public prosecutor’s office. it is true that corruption, money laundering and organized crime represent a threat for european democracy, for citizens and the european markets. they have become so highly sophisticated and globally spread, that national jurisdictions cannot realistically be able to combat them alone. eu must intensify its efforts against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. at times of economic and social crisis all resources deviated from legal activities must be recovered and spent for the real economy, otherwise there will be lost revenues and real threats to welfare, security, social cohesion and citizens’ jobs, damage of trust and crisis of values. all these attack democracy. i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that we must step up our fight against such phenomena by empowering eu and its member states with appropriate instruments so as to be always a few steps ahead, until we manage to finally eliminate them.
in writing. − social housing is a key element in implementing the fundamental right to housing which is protected by the universal declaration of human rights. in its europe 2020 targets the european commission defines improved access to housing as one of the key actions. housing support is also included in the ec’s social investment package (february 2013). some facts on social housing are important: there is no common social housing policy in the eu member states, thus great differences and similar trends do exist; the eu does not have any competence over this issue; because of the crisis, there are cuts in expenditure on social housing, undermining the fact that social housing is a productive investment; home ownership is decreasing today, whilst the need for affordable housing is increasing. the economic/social crisis has hit housing markets in europe and leads to rising house and energy prices. with 120 million persons in europe facing the risk of poverty and social exclusion, we must act immediately. i voted in favour of the report, believing that member states must exchange best practices, improve their coordination of social housing policy and encourage investments. we need consistent eu policies on state aid, competition policy and structural funds.
in writing. − occupational mobility is part of the complex phenomenon of labour market flexibility. it highlights the need to adapt education and training systems more effectively to match employment opportunities, and to boost also lifelong learning and skills acquisition. occupational mobility aims to ensure that different learning opportunities provide better possibilities for workers to be employable and adaptable throughout their working lives. the draft report stresses that eu policies must take the following into consideration: the situation of women of different age groups in areas such as education, integration, migration, employment, poverty, health care and social protection policies, paying special attention to their participation in the decision-making process. it stresses more specifically that the major obstacles to women’s occupational mobility are labour market segregation, inadequate working conditions, the gender pay gap and the lack of measures to reconcile family and work life, as well as persistent stereotypes and gender-based discrimination. recommendations provided to all relevant parties must therefore be formulated in such a way so as to address effectively such issues. i agree with the content of this report and voted in favour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as the commissioner has already said, the question of a common asylum system is not new, as we have been discussing it since 1999. however, after 14 years, we see that it is not really common, but mainly that even the points that are harmonized do not provide the high protection that was claimed. overall, there are some improvements in the individual legislation that makes up the asylum package, but the common logic behind it is that asylum seekers are first and foremost would-be abusers of the system and solidarity is not taking its place. the negotiations with the council on all these dossiers have been very difficult and the final result is, in my view, far below initial expectations, so that it fails to provide the real improvement we need. for example, we have not succeeded as parliament in changing the wrong basic principle underlying the whole dublin system, according to which the first country of entry into the european union is responsible, since we have not succeeded in persuading the council to introduce the possibility of suspending transport in certain cases. we have also failed to resist the introduction of access to eurodac by national law enforcement authorities, which is contrary to the original purpose of the system. we have not succeeded in banning the detention of asylum seekers, even in normal prisons, nor the detention of unaccompanied minors. nor have we been able to reduce the numerous possibilities for speeding up procedures, for transferring people to supposedly safe third countries instead of examining their applications in the eu, for special procedures at the border, for declaring an application as unfounded and even the provision of legal aid has been limited. for all these reasons, for all these failures, we are voting against the compromise reached with the council.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate all the rapporteurs because, after 14 years of lengthy negotiations, we have finally discussed today a revised asylum package directive which aims to improve asylum procedures and harmonise standards of asylum protection. this is certainly a first step forward. with europe remaining a top destination for asylum seekers, accounting for 332 000 asylum applications in 2012, it is obvious that individual national practices in eu member states cannot handle the situation alone. several member states, especially in southern europe, already face disproportionate asylum pressures. the package delivers an improved european approach capable of striking a better balance between the efficiency of eu countries to meet and protect needs of asylum seekers. europe, however, should pave the way towards a fairer, quicker, more consistent and better quality asylum system, thus putting an end to the phenomenon of refugees in orbit. it must ensure that transposition of eu legislation into national law is strictly monitored and that there is full compliance with human rights law and, of course, stop the heavy burden of asylum applications in some european countries.
in writing. − fisheries provide an important source of food, employment, income and recreation for people throughout the world. millions of people depend upon fish for their livelihoods. illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a serious global problem and one of the main obstacles to the achievement of sustainable world fisheries. valued at between usd 10 billion and usd 23.5 billion per year, iuu fishing represents a major loss of revenue, particularly to some of the poorest countries in the world where dependency on fisheries for food, livelihoods and revenues is high. iuu fishing puts unsustainable pressure on fish stocks, destroys marine habitats, distorts competition, puts honest fishers at an unfair disadvantage, and weakens coastal communities – particularly in developing countries. iuu fishing respects neither national boundaries nor international attempts to manage high seas resources. it thrives where governance is weak and where countries fail to meet their international responsibilities. we must therefore work hard in order to close the loopholes that allow illegal operators to profit from their activities by preventing and eliminating iuu fishing. i voted in favour of this report because it aims to do just that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i firmly believe that democracy means full respect for minorities. democracy means listening carefully to people who may not agree with us. when freedom is coupled with a readiness to give space to others, that is democracy. it is more than obvious that the turkish government has no idea of what respect for a different opinion means. one would expect mr erdoğan to be more understanding and tolerant of those who find themselves today in the same position as he personally was in a decade ago. we fully support the demonstrators because they have the right to demonstrate and we call upon the turkish government and the police forces to refrain from any further acts of violence and suppression. i have a word of advice for the government as well as for the demonstrators: there can be no democracy in turkey without giving the turks and the kurds their fundamental freedoms. there can be no democracy in turkey without restoring the fundamental rights of the cypriots, both greek cypriots and turkish cypriots alike. i am strongly of the opinion that democracy will arrive in turkey the day the turkish government decides to withdraw its occupying army from my country. κύριε πρόεδρε, επιμένω ότι η δημοκρατία θα αφιχθεί στην τουρκία την ημέρα που η χώρα αυτή θα αποσύρει τα στρατεύματά της από την κύπρο.
mr president, anyone who wants to help turkey and the turkish people today cannot tolerate the authoritarianism of those who oppress them and, moreover, reward them. the european parliament must stop feeding erdogan's arrogance by accepting concessions from the authorities of the european republic. if there has been any progress in turkey, mr president, it is because of the progressive turkish citizens and those who are rotting in turkish prisons, whom erdogan is insulting in exactly the same way and in exactly the same words as he insulted my fellow turkish cypriots when they were protesting in nicosia. they have our full support. now, given the current situation, the opening of the chapters, and especially chapters 23 and 24, will be interpreted by erdogan as further proof of his importance to the european union and of his ability to blackmail us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and one such move may have been the liberation of sandcastle.
mr president, today we must express our solidarity with the turkish people. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. how can a prime minister whose country wants to be part of the european family consider kissing an insult to public order? to view women who have had premarital sex as prostitutes and those who have had abortions as murderers. at the same time, the turkish prime minister, with a draconian law, is banning alcohol and cynically telling the turkish people to eat grapes that are healthy. armenian intellectual sevan nishanyan has been jailed for merely criticizing the government and famous musician fazel sai for a tweet. as protests continue in 67 cities and all media carry the flow of information, cnn turk is showing a cooking show. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. this is both an audacity and an insult to the european union itself. this is mr erdogan's turkey today. ladies and gentlemen, i propose that the european parliament firstly condemns in the strongest possible terms the provocations against erdogan, secondly, that it does not agree to the opening of chapters 23 and 24 and, thirdly, that it sends a clear message to erdogan that he will not enter the european union with such behaviour.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he has tarnished the image of the supposedly democratic erdogan. turkey is not and has never been a democratic state. mr. erdogan is trapped in his own energy, paying for his own arbitrariness like a modern-day sultan. is that his democratization? as a cypriot mep, i am not surprised. the same arbitrariness is demonstrated by turkey, which has deafened and ignored appeals, resolutions and decisions of the united nations, the council of europe, unesco, the european court of human rights, the european parliament for decades. are these the so-called modernist democrats of turkey ? and i ask: what is the obsession with opening chapters 23 and 24? who do we reward ? does the opening of the funds mean that journalists will be released? the mps ? the ones illegally held in turkish prisons? will the opening of the funds change turkey's attitude to the kurdish issue, the cyprus issue, human rights? is this how we honor the struggle of the rebels in taksim square? let's finally wake up!
mr president, these days humanity is witnessing a situation unprecedented in turkey, with thousands of citizens having taken to the streets of all the country's major cities to express their resistance to a regime that is becoming, as of today, increasingly authoritarian. the people are protesting against the violation of their fundamental rights, demanding that they too enjoy the same rights enjoyed by those living in democratic countries, to whose family turkey is hoping to join. and instead of the prime minister of a country that is slowly but steadily sliding towards the establishment of islam as a system of government listening to his people, he shamelessly calls the protesters cowards, vandals and anarchists. but as the president of his country himself has just recently said: democracy is not just elections and if he does not understand this, he should be reminded of it. i call on the high commissioner to take a more firm stance towards the turkish authorities and to stand with the protesters.
in writing. − freedom of the press and media pluralism, including on the internet, are essential elements for democracy and for free communication and expression. they are core european values and universal human rights. they enable people to have easier access to information, to scrutinise officials, to bring forward cases of injustice and corruption and even to overthrow dictatorships. digital and online media platforms play an increasingly important role in the evolution of opinion and expression today and must be safeguarded from emerging threats. governments must take measures against online promotion or fostering of terrorist activities and ‘the digital arms trade’. authorities must take a firm stance to protect human rights, personal details and information concerning individuals as well as confidential governmental information from being exposed indiscreetly on the internet and other online media platforms. the eu should protect and promote freedom of the press and media in the context of democratic change, especially in countries with non-democratic regimes. it should pay particular attention in candidate countries for accession, such as turkey, to stop the imprisonment of journalists, violations of freedom of the press and expression, and illegal blocking of internet sites. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the transatlantic partnership is based on deep political, cultural, economic, historical links, shared values and common goals. furthermore the transatlantic trade and investment partnership will strengthen the eu and us economy in these times that have been hard hit by the financial crisis but it will also invigorate eu-us relations. this closer relationship could be used to obtain closer cooperation in other areas, such as foreign policy. both the eu and the us are encouraged to continue their fight against terrorism but at the same time to respect and uphold human rights, fundamental liberties, the rule of law and democracy. they are also called upon to increase their cooperation on the data privacy and protection agreement, so as to ensure the proper transparency of data processing and the adequate protection of personal data. a broader transatlantic partnership could furthermore help in increasing cooperation with other atlantic countries such as those on the african rim of the atlantic coast. finally it can help towards the fight against climate change and resolving current issues and conflicts in areas such as syria or the economic crisis in egypt.
in writing. − despite positive evaluation of progress achieved in areas such as reducing extreme poverty, improving access to drinking water and better housing facilities for people who previously lived in slums, there is still a long way to go before the mdgs’ deadline expires and certainly a lot more to be done in the post-2015 development agenda. eu member states must have a strong and unanimous voice in defining the post-2015 framework, prioritising on areas which become considerably important in times of persisting economic and social crisis. the quality of life is deteriorating in many parts of the world. the eu and its member states should reiterate their strong commitment to combating increased levels of unemployment; to continuing to fight poverty; to reducing child mortality; to improving maternal health; and to respect for human rights and gender equality. moreover, they should keep promoting innovative sources of development funding to ensure sustainable development. i voted in favour of the report, as i believe in these goals.
mr president, reports indicate that in official documents of the european union, which is financing a number of projects in the turkish-occupied area of cyprus, occupied villages are referred to by the name given to them by the occupying troops and not by the recognised names of these villages. i would remind you, mr president, that in accordance with the relevant united nations convention on geographic names, the republic of cyprus has submitted to the united nations a list of the historical names and place names of the country, thus preserving the only correct and legally recognised spelling and naming of these villages. the european commission, by adopting the renaming measures imposed by the occupying authorities, is violating international law and is therefore taking part in turkey's attempt to demographically and culturally alter a region which is an integral part of the european family. i denounce this practice as illegal and call on the president of the european commission to act to put an end to this illegality immediately.
in writing. − water pollution and the unavailability of microbiologically clean and safe water, as far as its chemical composition is concerned, in many parts of the world are amongst the major environmental worries expressed by citizens worldwide and also in the eu. it is of primary importance that water remains one of the most comprehensively regulated areas of eu environmental legislation because of its importance for human consumption, health and environmental protection. at eu level, high quality standards and requirements have already been set by relevant legislation and regulations which provide the appropriate quality-control framework, procedures and specifications for monitoring compliance to required standards. as a chemist by profession, i believe that the water framework directive (wfd) sets out a legal framework for improving water quality even further, across europe. it imposes additional restrictions on certain chemicals used in biocides, pharmaceuticals and plant protection products, thus reducing their presence in lakes, rivers, streams, groundwater aquifers and coasts, providing further protection to the environment and to the public health.
in writing. the european union, through the european commission, has put in place a development strategy for 2020. this is the perspective taken by this report on the formulation of objectives and measures to be taken to reconcile maritime activities and sustainable development. it is essential that the european union has a single policy on maritime activities if the economy of this sector is to be healthy, if its maritime activities are to be sources of innovation, growth and innovation. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to encourage a high employment rate in the maritime sector while maintaining a high degree of scientific progress and environmental concerns.
in writing. − a new political approach is needed for the enforcement of maritime economy so as to become a dynamic force for change, for development and for job creation. the report on blue growth goes in line with this vision as it is the marine dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. europe has a long and powerful maritime tradition which, if correctly exploited, can lead to the development of new activities and actions. in five areas there is a promising potential for job creation and innovative applications; blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction, and blue biotechnology. high-employment growth along with measures for the protection of the fragile marine environment and of mankind from serious diseases, as well as optimal use of energy must be an essential part of this strategic policy. coordination, synergies and public and private partnerships in various economic sectors in coastal regions of the union should be further encouraged and established. broadly speaking, the parliament’s report seeks to maximise the benefits of blue growth in european countries. as a cypriot mep, i voted in favour of this report, hoping for a better future also for the cypriot maritime economy.
in writing. − the reduction of fossil resources, on which the european economy heavily depends, calls for a shift towards a new, post-petroleum society. bio-economy offers a unique opportunity to address complex and inter-connected challenges, while achieving economic growth. it can help europe to reduce its dependency on fossil resources by making the transition to a more resource-efficient society, strongly relying on renewable biological resources. this will satisfy consumers’ needs and industry demand; will tackle climate change and eliminate negative impacts on the environment. as the shadow s&d rappporteur of the empl opinion on this report, i am satisfied with the final voted version of the report, as voted in the committee. the report includes provisions for integration of science, business and society, promoting bioeconomy as a sustainable provider of employment and also as a motor for balancing social developments. i do hope that bioeconomy can be an innovative tool for sustainable growth and a safe, healthy and prosperous environment for current and future generations, leaving behind unpleasant implications of the ‘old economic’ structure. bio-economy could secure the environment ensuring a change for the better.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i just want to say this to her: you may be the tenth presidency since the crisis began. the commission, which is the one who actually decides, has not found a solution to the great problem of unemployment, especially among young people, in europe. the young people who are unemployed in europe today number several tens of millions, and the commission, which is essentially the decision-maker - i repeat - has not found any solutions to the problem. because a young person who loses his job doesn't just lose his salary. he loses his dignity. if you as the lithuanian presidency have anything to do, it is to find out who is in the best interest of not having billions more spent on solving the problem of unemployment, while so many billions are being wasted on so many excesses. find out who's winning, and tell them to their faces! i would also like to say a few words about enlargement. the enlargement cannot go ahead, turkey cannot go ahead, without solving the cyprus problem. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish cypriot community is a minority in the turkish cypriot community.
in writing. − as very correctly said, today’s vote on the resolution on the negotiated multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 is not a blank cheque, since nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. as s&d members, we have set out clear conditions that need to be fulfilled before we give our formal final consent later this year. we expect the council to stick to its commitments to avoid a structural deficit in 2013 and believe that our group’s contribution was significant in pushing forward various priorities. the mff 2014-2020 package comprises extra funding to finance the youth employment initiative by using enhanced flexibility in commitments, frontloaded funding for research and erasmus, improved guarantees for fully mobilising the payment ceilings and, finally, the possibility of increasing aid for the most deprived people by eur 1 billion on a voluntary basis. i voted in favour, even though there are still several discussions to be held on legal issues. i do hope that all the measures are translated into acts. we must keep on fighting for a better budget for europe through the revision scheduled after next year’s elections.
in writing. − threats to public health do not stop at national borders. diseases can swiftly spread across countries through, for instance, travel and food trade. well-known cases, such as the h1n1 pandemic flu, have revealed the lack of responsiveness of the eu. european coordination mechanisms are currently limited to health threats from communicable diseases. therefore i very much welcome this decision to extend the scope of the risk assessment and coordination measures to a wider range of health threats, including threats of biological, chemical, environmental or other origin. national preparation and coordination among member states and international cooperation are essential to control the spread of diseases and to minimise their detrimental impacts. although the responsibility of public health measures and policies rests mostly with the member states, it is only through a well-prepared, efficient and coordinated approach at eu level that member states can better ensure for their citizens the highest possible level of protection when faced with a health emergency. i voted in favour of this proposal because it brings important improvements in terms of notification, monitoring, risk assessment and risk management in cases of serious cross-border threats to health.
in writing. − the current and persistent economic crisis in europe, but also internationally, has revealed many deficits and needs for structural reforms of the financial sector in order to contribute more fairly to the costs of dealing with the crisis. the introduction of a common system of financial transaction tax in the eu is one of the measures adopted in some eu countries to decrease the risk of distortion of markets through a taxation-induced geographical delocalisation of activities, with the aim of achieving fewer instances of double-taxation or double-non-taxation. the member states who implemented enhanced cooperation in the area of financial transaction tax wish to avoid, the fragmentation of taxation treatment in the internal market for financial services, and the unfair contribution of financial institutions in covering the cost of the recent crisis. moreover, they aim through corrections in their taxation policy to enhance the efficiency of the financial markets, by imposing regulatory and supervisory measures to avoid future crises in the financial services sector. due to the crisis, pension funds will be partially exempted from this proposal, taxed at a lower rate of 0.05% instead of 0.1% until the commission publishes an impact assessment, in 2017.
in writing. fundamental rights in hungary are undoubtedly being undermined by the conservative slide promoted by the constitutional changes. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion of equal opportunities is a step in the right direction. first of all, their approach is absent from the situation of social and labour rights and the attack on the left, which is still continuing in hungary. in addition, the same forces which today seem to be disturbed by the reactionary backwardness of the hungarian state are completely silent on similar cases involving other countries. we also object to the growing tendency of the eu to intervene in the internal affairs of the member states, without any clear consent from the people, and we believe that this is dangerous. the proposed establishment of a mechanism to monitor member states' compliance and impose sanctions poses risks to the sovereignty of states. in addition, reality has shown that such mechanisms often end up being instruments for the promotion of extraneous pursuits and interests that have little to do with the defence of democracy and popular freedoms.
in writing. − excessive risk-taking and high leverage, inadequate capital and liquidity requirements, complexity of the overall banking system and inadequate regulation seem to be some of the main causes of the financial crisis. structural reforms of the banking sector are definitely needed, such as the avoidance of excessive risk-taking, the safeguarding of true competition, the decrease of the complexity and the separation of basic retail banking activities from high-risk investment and trading activities, so as to avoid high-risk activities and taxpayer bailouts. there needs to be an improvement of corporate governance and support for banks to establish transparent organisational structures, more accountability and reinforcement of a responsible and sustainable remuneration system for high bank officials. the eu’s banking sector must be safe, stable and efficient and it must respect all the rules and regulations of a well managed competitive market economy. furthermore, customers should be able to access their bank accounts and make payments even when banks fail. therefore the reform must ensure that the cost of risky trading or investment activities is not passed on to depositors or other clients of the banks. the bankers themselves and not the public or the taxpayers, should be held accountable and pay for any bank failures.
in writing. − tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance represent major risks for eu public finances, especially in these times of economic crisis. they are unlawful activities and criminal offences. one trillion euros in public money is lost on average every year in the eu, due to tax fraud and tax avoidance. this amount exceeds the total amount spent by member states on healthcare and it is four times that spent on education in the eu. cohesion policy and agriculture still remain the highest areas involved in fraud, while significant sums are also lost through vat fraud. the eu and its member states have a shared responsibility and obligation to fight fraud by introducing a standardised reporting approach, improving their mutual cooperation, by making tax systems simpler and more transparent, and by improving the national management declarations about eu funds. better cooperation on anti-fraud policies is also needed with third countries. we call for a closer working relationship between olaf and its supervisory committee and welcome the work underway on a directive on the fight against fraud to the eu’s financial interests by means of criminal law. i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, public television is a conquest of the greek people. it has enhanced the quality of democracy, offered objective information, maintained political, cultural, social camaraderie to millions of citizens inside and outside the country. it's not gagged, it's not blackmailed, it's not expropriated, it's not to be shut down. that must be the european parliament's answer. one is 'legislation', which may be necessary, and the other is 'black screen', which is a tombstone for free, democratic, public information. the european parliament must send a clear message today that it does not endorse the blackmailing practices followed by mr samaras, that it stands by the workers, that it supports public information, that the closure of ert is a blow to the heart of democracy and that it calls on the greek government to reconsider its unacceptable and provocative decision. open ert means strengthening, supporting public media throughout europe.
mr president, we were not at all surprised to learn that the intelligence services of the united states and other countries are spying on friends and enemies. what is really surprising is the response to the phenomenon from the official lips of the american leadership. not a bit, we're told that everyone on the planet is doing it. they're intercepting personal data from suspects and non-suspects, and all this is done on the pretext of fighting terrorism. but the point, gentlemen, is to fight crime by staying within the law, or you become one with the perpetrator, worse than the one you're fighting. because you are a state. you're a civil rights advocate. under no circumstances are you allowed to violate the laws you enact to protect, supposedly, human rights. if we do not, we should stop fooling ourselves by using grey matter to draft european directives and regulations and to conclude euro-atlantic agreements on the protection of personal data and human rights.
mr president, the united states' attitude and president obama's reaction were a provocation, an insult to every european citizen, to the european union itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. but we have to admit that they did their job. the important question we have to answer is one: what should be the european union's response? i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear and unequivocal answer to this question. secondly, to suspend for a transitional period negotiations, trade, until adequate explanations are given. third, snowden should be invited to stay. to appreciate his attitude. to protect her from us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he should be granted asylum. let the united states realize that the european union can ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. health protection is a right for every citizen. unfortunately, however, the current economic crisis has had serious repercussions in several fields, including health policies. budget cuts in social and health policies mean a dramatic deterioration in access to care services, pharmaceuticals, treatment programmes and even to heating and cooling, with severe consequences for citizens’ health. among the most vulnerable are the poor, the old, marginalised groups including women, jobless young people, migrants and people with disabilities. austerity measures, unjust euro group decisions and troika failures have hit hard both carers and those receiving care, spreading distress – mostly in southern europe, namely greece, cyprus, which is my country, portugal and spain, but also in ireland – through high levels of youth unemployment, intolerable pressures on care services and health systems, poverty and malfunctioning of public health and a spreading social crisis. this chaotic situation necessitates emergency action: social impact assessment, effective measures, reforms, funding and an alternative approach for growth, jobs and investment for the benefit of the people.
in writing. − a final agreement was reached to provide macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia, in the form of grants, to support georgia’s economic stabilisation and its balance of payments needs. despite differences of opinions between the council and parliament over the terms of the memorandum of understanding (mou) and the procedures to be followed, at the conciliation stage of the codecision process, the council and parliament reached a final agreement wherein stricter wording concerning the disbursement of assistance is adopted and under which the principles of the joint declaration on the general mfa will be applied to the case of georgia, an advisory procedure will be used for assistance up to a threshold of eur 90 million, and stricter conditions for the disbursement of funds will be implemented if the conditions are not met. all the political groups were happy with this final deal and hence i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − with this proposal, minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences as well as sanctions for attacks against information systems are set in place. special focus is given to the improvement of cooperation between judicial and other competent authorities. the new criminal offence of ‘illegal interception’ is introduced, along with measures to improve european criminal justice cooperation via strengthening the existing structure of the 24/7 contact points. member states are now obliged to collect comparable data on offences and must ensure that an adequate national system is in place and available for exchange of cybercrime and security information at union level. this will definitely contribute to a more effective and immediate response when needed for mutual benefits. operational national point of contacts will thus be established by member-states for this reason, constituting part of an existing 24-hours and seven-days-a-week network. in this respect, member-states could be better informed about the recent developments on cybercrime and act against it, which is the aim of this ep proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution by the epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa groups, which expresses serious concerns over prism and other surveillance programmes and condemns spying on eu representations. the us’s activities in spying on eu institutions and countries has undermined our mutual trust. we call on the us authorities, therefore, to provide us with full information on these allegations without further delay. the resolution expresses also grave concern about allegations that similar surveillance programmes are run by several eu member states, such as the uk, sweden, the netherlands, germany and poland. those programmes need to be examined to see whether they are compatible with eu law. i also fully support the enquiry by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which will gather information and evidence from both us and eu sources and present its conclusions in a resolution by the end of the year. it will also assess the impact of the alleged surveillance activities on eu citizens’ right to privacy and data protection, freedom of expression, the presumption of innocence and the right to an effective remedy. it is essential to ensure that our citizens’ right to privacy is not at stake and that citizens’ fundamental rights are protected effectively. we cannot accept any similar incidents happening again.
in writing. − as my political views and stance are based on and are in line with democratic values and principles, i cannot accept any kind of espionage either against any human being or against any organisation such as the eu, its member states and their mechanism and institutional apparatus. i cannot accept these kinds of practices, particularly when they stem from actions coming from the us, which is deemed to be our closest ally. on the other hand, i consider that the amendments tabled by colleagues and/or political groups aiming at postponing and/or suspending the eu-us commercial affairs treaty are based on double standards and also are not included in the context of a concrete strategy with a view to effectively defending the dignity of our citizens and institutions. in the case of turkey, for example, the same colleagues and/or political groups did not show so much sensitivity concerning the violation of human rights and the insult to our institutions as they demonstrate in the case of the us. for these reasons, i decided to abstain from voting on these specific amendments, as i intend to be in line with the democratic values and principles upon which the eu is founded.
in writing. − next year’s european elections will take place in the shadow of the economic and social crisis which severely affected european society and politics at all levels. the crisis revealed serious democratic deficits in the eu, low turnout and disconnect between european citizens and the eu institutions, as well as a rise of euroscepticism, radical nationalist and far-right parties. austerity programmes alone, without growth and investment, are causing a deterioration in the life of people in southern europe and in particular in greece, cyprus and portugal. this is why the crisis should provide a motive to be active, to grasp the opportunity to vote, to choose a country’s best representatives for the european parliament, to decide which european political party to support and to choose the european commission president. european citizens must vote for candidates that envision an alternative policy for growth, jobs, and youth unemployment. i voted in favour of this report, because it endorses important proposals to make the next european elections truly democratic, hoping that the electoral campaign will address mostly the european dimension of politics and there will be a gender balance, both on the lists of candidates and among the european parliamentarians elected.
in writing. − the eu system is unique in the sense that it is the only union of states to have a legally binding framework, through which arms export control is being improved. this resolution calls for the implementation and strengthening of this common position to prevent arms exports in cases such as the following: where existing conflicts could be aggravated, human rights violated, or recipient countries’ development prospects would be adversely affected. the common target of the eu arms-trade control framework is to strike a balance between the economic interests of eu member states, on the one hand, with prevention of irresponsible exports to countries that violate human rights and fundamental freedoms, on the other. the european parliament is promoting public transparency and accountability mechanisms in member states’ arms exports as far as the purchase and sale of arms is concerned. all member states and other negotiating parties should sign, ratify and fully implement the arms trade treaty (att). a legally binding eu export-control instrument and a harmonised eu arms-control policy are both needed to reinforce other dimensions of the eu’s external action, such as the promotion of human rights and of regional stability.
in writing. − trade in services is of strategic importance for the eu. services account for about three quarters of the eu’s gross domestic product (gdp). the european union is the largest exporter of services in the world, representing 28 % of the total global services exports and has the largest volume of trade (23.5 %) in services worldwide. moreover 68 % of the labour force is employed in the services sector. the eu has, therefore, a strong interest in reducing and abolishing barriers to trade in services worldwide, as it could make the largest gains from additional exports of services. whilst recognising the importance of services to the eu’s economy and welcoming the opening of negotiations with the aim of developing new rules on trade in services, including those for government procurement of services, licensing procedures or access to communication networks, we believe that the eu should not make any further commitments on important issues such as the liberalisation of public services, mode iv services liberalisation, financial services, and cultural and audiovisual services.
in writing. − unlocking the full potential of the digital single market is crucial to making the eu a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, to the benefit of both its citizens and its businesses. the eu must act now to retain its global competitive edge, in particular in relation to high-growth sectors such as the internet platform, information and communication technologies and the software application industry, whilst having in mind the protection of privacy and data protection and consumers’ economic and legal interests. furthermore, overcoming remaining barriers in the digital single market such as further reduction of roaming charges, universal and equal access to internet services for all citizens and net-neutrality, will benefit not only consumers but also smes, which account for 85 % of eu employment and are considered to be the driving force in the eu economy, with prime responsibility for wealth creation, employment, growth and innovation. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i strongly believe that media diversity and freedom of opinion contribute substantially to the functioning of our democratic societies. the media should have an educational, informative and entertaining role. however, control mechanisms and sometimes limitations are necessary. only interoperability of platforms can ensure diversity of opinion and the freedom of information. all media forms must respect the rules protecting children and human dignity, promoting cultural diversity, ensuring transparency, media quality, equality of opportunities, fair competition, and safeguarding media pluralism. the audiovisual media services directive and other network and media regulations need to be revised in regard to content and service providers. in this process, we need to preserve the basic principles of unified eu-wide protection for children, young people and minorities and tailor this to all modes of dissemination; of consumer anonymity, editorial responsibility and exclusion of these services from liberalisation measures that are part of international agreements; of the cultural value of media services and their importance for society and democracy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the commission’s work programme for 2014, which outlines new priorities for committees for the next year, as well as the remaining new proposals expected from the commission before the end of its mandate. the report assesses further the progress made during the last years of legislative activity in each field and highlights parliament’s priorities. the s&d group tried hard to negotiate a joint motion for a resolution that reflects our key political guidelines and priorities as well as our aims: to develop an alternative model geared towards growth, jobs and social justice in europe; to reduce economic instability and insecurity; to combat democratic deficits by putting the interests and the voice of citizens at the heart of our european policy-making. for us the fight against youth unemployment remains the top priority, alongside our efforts to negotiate a good and flexible mff to be used as a tool for eu revitalisation. we shall keep on fighting for a better europe and for our 500 million citizens to regain their trust in europe. we shall keep fighting for europe to pull its weight on the global stage.
in writing. crossborder marriages are increasingly common nowadays, due to the multiculturalism of modern european societies and the encouragement of mobility. the common positions, which were adopted with difficulty after a series of discussions in various presidencies of the european council, are essentially intended to provide solutions to outstanding and complex legal problems of everyday life relating to property problems arising from the dissolution of marriages or registered partnerships. the rules on registered partnerships vary widely from one member state to another. the draft treaties submitted by the commission promote eu law by giving citizens the opportunity to be adequately informed about their rights, which they should know and claim, without discrimination. they are a first step towards minimum convergence, given the enormous differences in national legislation. emphasis is placed on women being more vulnerable than men to divorce and on the issues of satisfactory settlement and resolution of property disputes.
in writing. − online gambling increases with severe economic hardship especially among the poorest section of society, creating a negative social and economic impact at the national levels. it is therefore essential to protect human health, the rights of all consumers, as well as their personal data, against abuse. member states should take all necessary measures to combat organised crime such as fraud, match-fixing, tax evasion and gambling addiction. moreover, they should regulate their own gambling sectors, by complying with the relevant eu laws. closer cooperation between member states is needed, as well as an exchange of research findings, better administration and management techniques in this sector. operators of online gambling should be obliged to display clear, prominent and explicit warnings to minors informing them that it is illegal to take part in such activities. moreover, the commission should implement a compulsory third-party identification control, such as social security number or bank account identification, to ensure that minors do not engage in online gambling.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i have personally admired mr barroso's courage and his belief that things are going well in the european union. i have struggled to understand where this courage comes from and i think it comes from the fact that he lives in a different european union from the one i live in. i will give you some additional pictures of those mr swoboda has given. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you haven't seen them? and here in strasbourg, in the heart of the european union, homeless people are sleeping on the pavements! and in cyprus, thousands of children are able to go to school today in 2013 because charitable organizations can get them a sandwich and a glass of milk, thousands of young people... that is why i say that we are probably living in a different european union from the one in which mr barroso lives. although we are still in the midst of an economic crisis, all the austerity policies and measures that are being promoted are not only aggravating the problems that the economy is facing, but are also leading to a deepening of the crisis. the result is increased poverty and unemployment, more cuts and privatisations. the harsh realities of the economic crisis cannot be afforded any more by the people. in saying this, we are not only referring to the european citizens of the south, we are also referring to all those people who lose their jobs in germany, in france, in slovenia, in cyprus. in my country, where the decisions taken by the troika destroyed the economy, unfortunately the eu is associated today with the economic crisis. it has lost the battle on technology and it also lacks coherence. and now some words about syria. we condemn any external intervention in the internal affairs of the country. we already have the example of iraq where, during blair's and bush's orchestrated witch-hunt to discover one bottle of chemicals, more than one million people perished. they're still trying to find that bottle of chemicals. as long as the european union continues to be dragged in the wake of others, it will never be able to play a substantial role towards peace. concerning chemical weapons, we believe that the russian proposal could potentially be a solution. nevertheless we cannot avoid asking the question who produces them? and who sells them? it is high time to start being more serious about disarmament. we have a duty as europeans to play an important role towards this end. this is the cornerstone for achieving global peace. for as long as europe accepts and continues to take part in the global arms trade industry, then wars will continue unabated. mr barroso, there is a lack of democracy in europe. we have to accept that. if we really want to see european citizens supporting the european union project, the european union can only fully materialize for its people when a cypriot or a maltese feels equal with a german or a french or a british citizen. democracy means respect for minorities. there is no proportionate respect today for smaller countries and i dare say there is no respect even in the working of our parliament as far as the minority opinion is concerned. as baroness ashton said lately to mr morsi, democracy is not only elections: democracy is the life that lies in between two elections.
mr barroso, you said that the majority of the greek people support the euro. in fact, all the citizens, not just in greece, who support the euro in your view, are actually afraid of leaving the euro. it is quite another thing to base your arguments on the fear of citizens moving into something new. that is the reality and you have left behind the fact that greece's debt is now higher than it was at the start of the crisis. you said that this crisis has nothing to do with any of the previous ones and that's why we have to think differently. but you didn't describe the difference. you're afraid to use the word "social justice". we use the word "cohesion". the vocabulary has changed. social justice is a word that should not be used in this parliament. you speak of mobility. mr barroso, i come from a village in europe where half the inhabitants disappeared one morning, some in south africa and some in australia. we know about mobility. but it is one thing to have knowledge-based mobility, and another to be forced to leave my country to go to another european country to get a 600 euro salary. so we know what mobility is. you pointed out that millions of people are suffering. i would add that millions of dollars have been taken from the pockets of the many and put into the pockets of the few. europe will find its way if it becomes a lever for world peace and if it brings equality, egalitarianism and social justice to its citizens.
in writing. − the relentless economic crisis which is currently storming europe (and the austerity-driven response to it) are leading to unemployment, poverty, social exclusion, the inability to lead an autonomous life, and unprecedentedly poor levels of opportunities for youth. this situation should be faced urgently by targeted measures and appropriate funding. the eu youth strategy offers valuable tools, policies and mechanisms for action to respond more effectively to the complicated challenges that the young generation is facing today. the serious cuts in budgets in many member states, concerning education, innovation and incentives for encouraging youth entrepreneurship, place serious barriers to the effective implementation of the eu youth strategy. it is therefore vital to ensure that eu funding of youth programmes continues, as well as eu investment in all european regions, and especially in those of southern europe which are suffering from severe austerity measures, to ensure growth and jobs. youth policy should be planned proactively, aiming for better social inclusion, more educational and training opportunities and creation of quality jobs for youth.
in writing. i convey the cry of agony of the young people of cyprus, who are experiencing unacceptably high levels of unemployment, insecurity and uncertainty about the future. until the turkish semi-occupation of our island, they are now experiencing a dramatic increase in unemployment from 11.7% in 2012 to 17.3% in 2013. they see their parents losing their jobs because of the crisis, the country's banking problems, the unfair decisions of the eurogroup and the negative consequences of unilateral austerity policies without growth and investment. the situation is tragic in greece, with 59.1% of young people unemployed, in spain with 55.9%, in portugal, italy and cyprus. the result: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the commission's proposals. a lost generation of young people. the much-hyped mobility does not provide permanent solutions. it is not helping to restart the economy, nor is it helping competitiveness. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. we are calling for growth, investment, financing in the european periphery, job creation for young people so that they have the right to dream, work and create within their own country. give them the right to dream and hope!
in writing. − with the economic crisis still continuing, unemployment levels rising, public finances still deteriorating, the eu must do much more to facilitate the service sector through market access for smes and the self-employed, and by increasing consumer choice and further strengthening competitiveness, growth and employment within its territory. there is an urgent need for a more competitive, functional and efficient service sector, which accounts for more than 65 % of the euʼs gdp and could enable the eu to gain a further 2.6 % of gdp. the eu must make full use of the untapped potential which exists, to contribute towards a balanced and sustainable social market economy. at the same time, member states should put mutual recognition into practice to facilitate the free movement of services. immediate economic growth and employment can be achieved through business, construction and tourism services and through retail. however, workersʼ rights, social protection and employment standards should not be forgotten in the process of achieving economic growth and increasing employment.
mr president, a hundred thousand dead, two million refugees, diplomacy has failed! where have you seen the international community united? the hard truth: the european union without a single effective voice. the european parliament, the european union must not tolerate military intervention. give time to time. the united states cannot ask the european union for relief. the war will be devastating for syria, the arab world. we shall have acts of terrorism in the european union and in the united states. assad is a dictator, but he can only be removed by diplomacy and the syrian people. finally, as regards the use of chemicals, we must condemn their use and demand their destruction. many contradictions have been written. i wonder why there is still no documented response from the authorities. decisions are made on evidence, not on hunches and clues, however serious, wherever they come from.
in writing. the institution of the european ombudsman has been efficient and very successful over the past decade. the credit goes to the staff of the service, but also to mr diamantouros himself, who carried out his duties with zeal and personal dedication, placing particular emphasis on transparency, two-way communication and good administration for the benefit of european citizens. mr diamantouros has succeeded in bridging the gap between the citizen and the european institutions and he can rightly be congratulated on the work he has done.
in writing. − social dialogue and collective bargaining are fundamental principles of the european union and constitute important mechanisms for the design and implementation of eu policies, especially in the field of social and employment policies. i voted in favour of this report because there is a growing need for cross-border labour relations systems to solve problems, taking into consideration the increasing transnationalisation of the management of groups of companies. however, this process of transnationalisation must not be pursued at the cost of the structurally more vulnerable employees or even result in pure wage dumping and social dumping. efficient businesses with good work and high employment rates are the goal, and this will only be attainable through high-quality social dialogue based on legal provisions. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on womenʼs rights, i emphasise that collective bargaining and social dialogue represent valuable adjuncts to legislation in promoting gender equality and are key mechanisms for gender mainstreaming in employment. i also stress the need to encourage, support and increase womenʼs representation and participation at different levels of social dialogue and collective bargaining structures and for the gender dimension to be mainstreamed in the relevant fora.
in writing. − the ongoing economic crisis and the continuous conflicts in various parts of the world caused a surge in the number of unaccompanied minors, who often face dysfunctional asylum systems and abusive detention conditions. the best interests of unaccompanied migrant children should, however, be at the heart of all asylum and migration processes affecting them. eu member states should specifically invest in preventive policies on unaccompanied minors, focusing on ways to prevent poverty, improve health policies, restore human rights, and promote democratisation and post-conflict reconstruction in their countries of origin so as to ensure a better and safer environment for children to live in. special attention should be paid to the most vulnerable unaccompanied minors and girls in particular as they are often victims of trafficking, sexual exploitation, abuse and violence. aid, psychological support and assistance programmes should be set up for these victims thus preventing stigmatisation. i voted in favour of this report having in mind the best interests of unaccompanied minors. the report provides constructive recommendations and strategic guidelines giving added value to the existing commission action plan on unaccompanied minors (2010-2014), calling, among other things, for all assistance and support measures to be gender-specific.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we who truly believe in the european union are not among those who cannot point out and identify the problems created and the injustices caused by decisions such as, for example, the recent cutting of deposits in cyprus. what i want to do today is to call on all the european institutions to work effectively to counter the danger of losing the sacred refuge of the first home, both in cyprus and in many other european countries. there are ways of doing this, not by destroying bank credit and solvency - so important for the reconstruction of the banking system - but by clever and insightful ideas. i would like to mention, for example, the irish model whereby one can pay a tolerable rent instead of an intolerable loan until at least this financial crisis is over.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues of all political parties for their valuable contribution to the drafting of this report. i am sorry that a full debate has not been scheduled for such a sensitive issue which is being addressed by this parliament for the first time. gendercide refers to the systematic, deliberate and gender-based mass killing of people belonging to a particular sex. this is a rising but under-reported problem in several countries. recent estimates of the distorted sex ratios between men and women have raised the number of women missing from the world’s population to approximately 200 million. these missing women are victims either of sex selection during pregnancy through prenatal sex detection and selective abortion, or of infanticide or child neglect following birth. gendercide is a global issue, not confined to asia and europe but also observed in north america, africa and latin america. the report specifically explores the causes, current trends and consequences of gendercide and suggests ways of combating the gender-biased sex selection practices. gendercide is the result of a deeply entrenched ‘son preference’, rooted in cultural and economic perceptions and accentuated by declining fertility and pressures to have smaller families. a culture of persistent son preference intensifies persisting gender inequalities and stereotypes against women, preventing them from fully enjoying equal treatment in employment and educational opportunities in many countries. sex-selective practices disrupt the gender balance in societies, leading to a male-dominant population and consequently to skewed population sex ratios which have far-reaching economic and social impact. the aim of this report is to combat gendercide by addressing and uprooting effectively all root causes leading to son-preference cultures. such prevention presupposes major commitment as well as sustained and concerted efforts by the commission, by the national governments of countries experiencing such phenomena, by civil society, international agencies and other stakeholders. some of the measures proposed for urgent implementation are as follows: first, to collect reliable statistical data on sex ratio at birth, child mortality and recognised sex-selective practices at micro, sub-national and national level. second, to introduce and strengthen guidelines to provide specialised training for medical staff to prevent sex-selective practices, to introduce supportive measures for girls and women, and to improve their access to education, healthcare and work without spousal authorisation, thus promoting an educational and social environment of equal opportunity. states should also develop and promote appropriate legislation and policy frameworks to address the root causes of inequalities that drive sex selection. as well as other areas relevant to inheritance laws, dowries, financial and social protection, we also ask the commission to support advocacy and awareness-raising activities to stimulate debate within social networks. i would like to point out that there are some amendments which want to ban all abortions. this is beyond the scope of this report on gendercide. i kindly ask my colleagues tomorrow to vote in favour of the report, because gendercide is both a crime and a severe violation of human rights and we should make every possible effort in order to eliminate its root causes and to stop this crime of gendercide.
in writing. the control of the flag state of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 needs to be enshrined in eu law in a more detailed and transparent way. the incorporation of the convention into eu law will strengthen the enforcement regime within the european union in order to avoid different interpretations by member states which may lead to unfair competition and social dumping. each state shall exercise its competence in respect of ships flying its flag. the establishment of an effective 'certification' and 'inspection' system is of paramount importance for the issue of a seafarer's certificate and declaration of compliance with seafarer's working conditions.
in writing. smoking is one of the most serious public health problems in modern societies. smoking is a public health hazard and a major threat to social well-being internationally. a typical global death is attributed to smoking, with 4.5 million deaths, 650,000 of which occur in the eu. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in cyprus, and we are pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation. however, these rates are lower in cyprus than the average of the survey, but they are still a cause for concern. although there are acceptable regulatory differences in the implementation of the revision between member states, the main idea behind this draft directive is that tobacco products should have the appearance and taste of tobacco. important regulations such as health warning messages, crackdown on cigarette smuggling, the creation of a specific regulatory framework for e-cigarettes, and the abolition of flavouring substances are provisions of major importance to prevent the creation of new smokers, especially young people and adolescents, across europe.
in writing. − the ongoing financial crisis has deeply affected the public finances of member states and therefore their ability to continue financing the sub-national levels. the local and regional authorities, in many member states, have been hit twice. firstly, by the financial crisis and national budgetary cuts in their countries, and secondly, by the budgetary restraints at eu level. the consequence is extra pressure on their already stressed budgets, a sharp decrease in the revenues of most local governments, throughout europe and reduced ability to provide adequate social services for vulnerable groups at times of increased demand because of financial hardship, increased unemployment, poverty and austerity. i voted in favour of this report as it is crucial to explore and support all practical measures that can be taken, in order to safeguard future regional growth and be flexible in our effort to ensure availability for sufficient investment and co-financing of social programmes and policies.
in writing. − the eia directive is an extremely important legislative tool that aims to ensure that no potentially damaging project gets started without first undergoing a thorough evaluation of its potential effects on the environment. however, during the last 28 years of its application, a number of weaknesses have been identified, mainly concerning its implementation. a revision of this legislation is therefore necessary, not only to improve its implementation but also in order to take into account the political, legal and technical developments and bring the directive in line with the current eu environmental priorities. these priorities include, among others, biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the tackling of new emerging natural and man-made threats and disasters. a strengthened eia directive will improve the efficiency and simplification of procedures and will provide an appropriate background for projects and economic activities, with positive effects on the environment, human health and the economy. i voted in favour.
in writing. professional mobility contributes to competitiveness and is a driver of employment in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the fundamental right of free movement requires simplification of procedures and the removal of obstacles for citizens wishing to move within the union. improving the recognition of professional qualifications is a necessary condition for strengthening trust among european citizens. the creation of a european professional identity on a voluntary basis, without red tape, facilitates both professionals and the competent authorities, enhances communication between member states and is an essential component of european identity and citizenship. the role of problem-solving networks is important. one of the main obstacles to mobility is the lack of confidence felt by consumers, patients, competent authorities and professionals, which is due to the heterogeneity of education systems, methods and conditions of occupations and to ignorance of these differences. in an era of crisis of values and institutions, in which the role of the eu is being challenged and unemployment is affecting everyone, especially young people, such actions are needed to build up lost confidence in european citizenship and to provide european citizens with effective support.
in writing. − as of 10 january 2013, the armenian government abolished the visa obligation for eu citizens and is now awaiting the european parliament’s consent for the eu to implement visa liberalisation for armenian citizens. a new simplified and liberalised visa regime between the eu and armenia can boost a new era of mutual cooperation and can improve citizens’ mobility and social interaction. the procedures will be quicker, cheaper and less bureaucratic, benefiting all citizens and also the eu member states. businessmen, academics, scientists, students and many others will find it easier to enter the eu, have the incentive to travel, gain experience and exchange ideas. if visa liberation is accompanied by appropriate measures, it will help tackle illegal immigration. furthermore, it will accelerate economic and political integration between the eu and armenia, by expanding additional funding opportunities for projects that reduce socio-economic imbalances and increase stability. this eu-armenian partnership should be based on the principle of respect for democracy, international law, human rights and the market economy. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the readmission agreement between the eu and armenia can be seen as a significant move in mutual relations. the agreement provides clear obligations and procedures for both the armenian authorities and those of the eu member states in terms of when and how to readmit people who are irregularly residing on their territories. it concerns nationals from armenia, the eu and third countries as well as stateless people, provided that the latter have at least a visa or residence permit. with this readmission agreement and other appropriate measures, illegal migration flows can be controlled and prevented. readmission should be based on reciprocity and rapid and effective procedures for the identification and the safe and orderly return of those persons. it is important that the agreement continues to support the necessary safeguards with regard to the protection of data and fundamental human rights. furthermore, it is important to guarantee the full respect of human rights, as outlined by the european convention of human rights, during the application of the readmission agreement. i voted in favour.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, thousands of people, victims of poverty, war and military intervention, have so far lost their lives on the land and sea borders of the european union. according to the international organization for migration, over 25,000 have drowned in the mediterranean in the last 20 years, 4,000 of them in the last two years alone. the tragedy in the sea area of lampedusa demonstrates once again the hopelessness of the policy of 'fortress europe' characterised by the criminalisation of immigration and huge funding for the introduction of ever more intensive border measures. and the answers we have heard from the day of the tragic incident until now are out of reality: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. of course, the coordination of search and rescue operations is important: the council has also decided to suspend the expulsions. but also to finally put into practice the notorious solidarity we had called for in the resolution of parliament and many times since, through the issuing of humanitarian visas, more relocation and the abolition of the dublin agreement, amongst other things. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we need a huge shift in our immigration policy that really takes into account development and rights. we need to stop ignoring that migration is fueled by the continued demand for cheap labor, that refugees are trying to escape wars and persecution in their homelands. and to abandon a policy which is adopted without analysing the reasons that force people to leave their homes. especially with the growing crises in our wider neighbourhood, we have an increased responsibility to facilitate access to protection for people trying to escape war and persecution. we must put an end to this hypocritical attitude or the number of victims will increase and we will all be accomplices.
in writing. the right of reference is an important democratic tool. it is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens in the maastricht treaty establishing european citizenship and in the lisbon treaty on the functioning of the eu. through this right, members of the european parliament can control the practical application of matters affecting 500 million european citizens and thus protect their rights. the substantial contribution of the 2012 activities of the committee on petitions is widely acknowledged. the commission's initiatives in relation to european citizenship, the proper application of eu law, respect for fundamental rights, the protection of citizens in the internal market and measures for animal welfare standards in the european union are welcomed.
mr. president, i apologize for the mistake i made earlier. in the wake of the daily tragic events with the loss of hundreds of lives of migrants in the mediterranean, i return to the recommendation-request for the immediate need to create a mechanism for the automatic relocation of migrants. such a mechanism could provide a solution, even if only temporary, to the problem of accumulating large numbers of migrants in host countries which are unable to provide them with the necessities of human life. in reply to the failure to meet such a request, the commissioner responsible argued that the member states were reacting negatively. the european council will meet next week, mr president, to discuss the problems arising from the uncontrolled flows of migrants due to the unusual situation in the middle east. the commissioner has a timely opportunity to call for a change of attitude from the member states, pointing out to them that along with the provision of funds practical measures must also be taken, such as the adoption of a mechanism for the relocation of asylum seekers and irregular migrants in general.
mr president, in this time of crisis of values and of the savage exploitation of man by man, we must combat scandalous behaviour, profiteering and criminal negligence by strengthening quality control mechanisms, especially for high-risk products, for uniform application throughout europe. in vitro diagnostic medical devices, integrated automatic defibrillators and technical implants in patients should be strictly controlled both during their manufacturing process and in practice when they are used by patients. we must ensure - and i believe this directive is moving in that direction - that defective products will not be placed on the market, as has happened in the past, and that safety, protection, high quality standards, proper procedures and above all affordable prices for all are provided in all the member states of the european union.
in writing. − in vitro medical devices (ivo) are intended for diagnostic use covering a huge variety of tests, including self-testing for measuring blood sugar, hiv or dna, which freely circulate in the common market. a proper diagnostic test is a prerequisite for the proper treatment of patients or prevention of diseases. the current directive should ensure that low quality ivd medical devices are not sold on the market and that deficits in the existing regulation of ivd medical devices are improved. in the past, there have been several failings; low-quality hiv tests were placed on the european market, creating a huge amount of false negative results that endangered the lives of many patients, including a huge proportion of eu patients. what we want is patient safety and protection for all, based on some scientific evidence, high-quality specifications, strict quality control, fewer bureaucratic procedures, market surveillance, respect for ethnic values and continuous effective monitoring through the eu.
in writing. − since medical devices cover a huge spectrum of products used for diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or replacement following injury or disability, the present regulatory framework needs updating to be fully in line with technological and scientific advances. the current rules are interpreted and implemented in different ways by eu member states, which puts patients’ safety and health protection at risk. the commission underlines that all notified bodies need stronger supervision owing to insufficient transparency; manufactures need stricter controls; the public requires more information concerning medical devices; and unique monitoring systems must be in place to trace and recall any malfunctioning devices. as parliamentarians, we strongly believe that a more centralised pre-marketing authoritarian procedure for high risk devices is needed, as well as reinforcement of the qualifications of the staff of the notified bodies and stricter terms of implementation of multiple use devices. devices labelled as single-use should be used only for single-use and not reprocessed. despite different approaches towards the framework, we should keep in mind that the safety and protection of patients from defective medical devices should be guaranteed.
in writing. the sógor report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european demographic statistics harmonises the collection of demographic statistics with the aim of creating a sound basis for the collection of reliable and comparable population data. in accordance with article 16 (4) of the treaty, the qualified majority for voting in the council should be based on the population of the member states on 1 november 2014. this regulation provides the necessary legal basis and harmonises the collection of quantitative population data in accordance with un international conventions and with existing european union standard practices. it is based on the principle of 'habitual residence' to determine the population of a country (it defines a transitional period of twelve months so that a person living in another country can be considered a habitual resident of that country for statistical purposes). in today's vote, as shadow rapporteur for the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i voted in favour of the agreement reached during the informal negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. civil society (cs) and the wider range of non-governmental organisations and local government are the eu's preferred partners. they should be encouraged to work towards better governance and inclusive development. local authorities in the member states can play a key role in the effectiveness of development policy in the eu, especially today, in a changing global environment characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges and crises. 'democratic participation' in development policy must be ensured by placing citizens at the centre of development. governments should leave room for civil society organisations to be active and to exercise scrutiny and criticism of government policy. we must support the establishment of responsible and transparent relations between governments, non-governmental organisations (ngos) and local authorities. building more democratic societies, diversity and creating a favourable development climate for ngos and local authorities must be eu priorities.
in writing. − this own-initiative report responds to the commissionʼs communication on ‘rethinking education: investing in skills for better socio-economic outcomes’. in the current economic crisis, with an alarming number of young people struggling with unemployment across the european union, the report on rethinking education addresses the specific role education has not only in combating unemployment but also in preparing individuals for life and as active citizens. the commissionʼs communication takes a solely economic approach to the role of education, aiming to fulfil the economic targets of european and national strategies and address the needs of the current labour market. however, the role of education must be seen as much broader. the primary mission of education is to prepare individuals for life, as well as to be active citizens in increasingly complex societies. therefore, a balance between theoretical knowledge and practical skills, as well as an increased focus on promoting vocational education and training, the positives of dual-learning systems and work-based learning, must be ensured. it is also important that the report on rethinking education addresses gender imbalance, social inclusion for the most vulnerable groups and promotes the opportunities which digital literacy, open educational resources, ict and language skills can bring.
in writing. − there are considerable risks in the healthcare sector, due to healthcare-associated infections (hais). these infections could be the result of either inherent risks from operations or drugs, but more importantly of avoidable medical errors in the treatment system. therefore measures should be taken to increase citizensʼ awareness of patient safety and to prevent and control hais, but also to train and inform healthcare professionals and carers about hais and patient safety. investment in patient safety directly benefits the patient, but decreases also the costs in treating patients experiencing hais, thus enabling financial savings to be allocated better, for other social purposes. access to safe healthcare is the foundation for a high-quality health system, but also it is a basic and fundamental right for eu citizens. therefore, investing in patient safety improves both the quality of life for citizens and at the same time reduces the unnecessary burden on society.
mr president, we have before us a very well documented report which demonstrates the urgent need to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering effectively. it is inconceivable that we have in the european union an annual cost of corruption of 100 billion euros, an annual profit from human trafficking of 25 billion euros, 800,000 victims of forced labour and small-scale corruption in the public sector of 20 million euros. we must put an end to corruption, tax fraud, tax evasion and the false economy. i welcome the establishment of the european action plan for 2014-2019 with targeted actions that will certainly support and promote member states' respect for the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity. yes, we need cross-border cooperation, modernisation of public administration, sound business practices, criminalisation of the mafia, crackdown on human trafficking and the removal of banking secrecy. the citizens need to be cleansed to rebuild confidence and hope for a better europe.
in writing. − this is a technical report that seeks to amend existing regulation 273/2004 on drug precursors which are substances frequently used in the manufacture of illicit drugs. the revised regulation aims to strengthen trade control and improve definitions and licensing. moreover, it aims to strike a balance between preventing the illicit use of drug precursors and the commercial needs of legitimate operators. we do need strong legislation for regulating the production, distribution, purchase, transportation, import and export of precursor chemicals and preventing precursor substances from being used in manufacturing drugs and psychotropic substances. i voted in favour of this report because it brings significant improvements compared to the previous regulations of 2004 and 2005. for example, it establishes a european database on drug precursors, and a list of eu licensed or registered operators as well as of legally trading users of drug precursors. the improved legislation aims to combat the diversion of drug precursors and thus contributes to the overall fight against the supply of illegal drugs.
blue-card question. – first of all, i would like to thank mr duff and mr tannock for their contribution to cyprus. i would like to add that mr duff signed the written declaration asking turkey to return famagusta, so i thank him once again. my question is whether mr tannock, mr duff, myself and others can work to persuade the european council during the next meeting to do something about turkey.
mr president, i am sorry to be a little blunt, but i think that the european union's common foreign policy is perhaps the shortest joke in europe today. in my view, a common foreign policy cannot be pursued, nor is it pursued. what is really happening is a constant balancing between the different interests of the member states. for a common foreign policy to exist, we need leaders with courage and courage who will defend human rights first and foremost. there can be no common foreign policy without full respect for the positions of all member states, whatever their size and strength. turkey, not a word about occupying a third of cyprus! avoid saying or doing anything. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
baroness ashton, we must admit that we have a deficit, a weakness, an inefficiency in the common foreign and security policy. the lisbon treaty has not been implemented. the common security and defence policy is unfortunately still a matter of concern. the syrian war continues, egypt has not found its peace, the arab spring is turning into an arab winter, the persecution of christians continues, the mobilizations of the turkish people are violently suppressed and similar problems exist on all continents. the european union must be transformed into a single, strong federal force for stability and peace. i have two comments on mr brok's report: the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish authorities are committed to the development of the turkish economy. it is not possible for a candidate country to imprison journalists and artists, to silence the press, to threaten the european union, to continue to violate human rights and to disregard the united nations and, of course, not to recognise the republic of cyprus. secondly, i would like to welcome the position of the rapporteur who welcomes and encourages initiatives such as the request by european union countries to become members of the 'cooperation for peace', a position which the republic of cyprus has expressed through the relevant minister, hoping for support from the european union.
in writing. − the eu budget for the financial year 2014 will be the first one under the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it is understandable that the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in many member states have led eu leaders to propose a series of budgetary cuts. however, it is vital that in areas which play an important role in boosting the economy, such as the digital agenda, research, entrepreneurship and employment, the recommendations of the committee on budgets are seriously taken into consideration so as to reverse the proposed payment cuts. while the concern to comply with the multiannual financial framework limitations is understandable, it is also essential that budget allocations are sufficient and realistic. it is very important that the european parliament, which is the only european institution that represents the 500 million eu citizens, underlines the promotion of growth and jobs and ways to tackle youth unemployment as its key priorities.
in writing. − national data do not tell us all we need to know about the seas as a global system connected by shifting winds, seasonal currents and migrating species. consequently, integrating different national and local systems into a coherent whole, at european level, is essential. marine knowledge 2020 brings together marine data from different sources with the aim of improving our understanding of how the seas behave. by helping public authorities and researchers to find the data and make more effective use of it, the industry will be able to develop new products and services. at the same time, we need to ensure vulnerable marine ecosystems are protected by establishing fish recovery and marine protected areas.
in writing. − the slow and fragile economic recovery of europe indicates that there is a need for improvement in economic policy coordination. in order to achieve that, we have to recognise two facts. one, that common eu policies produce dissimilar effects on different member states. and two, that all member states, both those with a deficit and those with a surplus, have an equally important role to play, in correcting the imbalances within the eurozone. the eu needs to stabilise the eurozone and boost its competitiveness in the global economy, by increasing competition in the product and services markets by improving productivity to lower prices. however, in order to achieve that, the eu needs to invest more in research and development, education and skills, and resource efficiency. we therefore need less austerity and more investment.
in writing. the lambedusa tragedy has reminded us that europe is still unable to cope with illegal immigration and emergencies. he reminded us that there is still no comprehensive european migration policy, based on solidarity and fair burden-sharing between member states, and this at a time when southern european member states such as malta, italy and greece are bearing almost all of the migratory pressure europe is undergoing. the joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, contains encouraging references. it stressed once again the need to create a mechanism aimed at fairer burden-sharing and reducing the pressure on countries on the external borders which receive large numbers of migrants, such as greece. such a mechanism for internal resettlement is not only a tangible form of solidarity but, more importantly, the only viable proposal to compensate to some extent for the weaknesses of dublin ii and to finally have a more integrated, fair and european immigration policy. it is now up to the council to adopt and implement these necessary and urgent provisions without delay.
in writing. the report departs completely from the idea of creating an eu which serves not its own geostrategic economic interests but the interests of the people. it is a total departure from the development of a foreign policy which leads to disarmament and peace. we disagree with the basic objectives that are set, such as further promoting militarization, promoting the synergy of civilian and military forces, trying to limit the dominant role of the member states in foreign policy matters, and in particular strengthening the eu-nato relationship. the report contains some problematic references to cyprus. it presents turkey as a strategic partner and calls for new chapters to be opened in order to advance its accession process. the fact that turkey is refusing to fulfil its obligations to open each chapter is completely ignored. there is no mention of turkey's obligation to implement the additional protocol and to withdraw its occupying forces from cyprus. in an attempt to equalize the actions of turkey and the republic of cyprus, the application of the republic of cyprus for membership of the 'partnership for peace' is welcomed as a first step towards removing the obstacles between the eu and nato. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. "
in writing. the report departs completely from the direction of an eu that serves not its geostrategic economic interests but the interests of the people. it is a total departure from the direction of a foreign policy which will lead to disarmament and peace. we disagree with the basic objectives that are being set, such as further promoting militarization, promoting the synergy of civilian and military forces, trying to limit the dominant role of the member states in foreign policy matters and, in particular, strengthening the eu-nato relationship. the report contains some problematic references to cyprus. it presents turkey as a strategic partner and calls for new chapters to be opened in order to advance its accession process. the refusal of turkey to fulfil its obligations to open each chapter is completely ignored. there is no mention of turkey's obligation to implement the additional protocol and to withdraw its occupying forces from cyprus. in an effort to equalize the actions of turkey and the republic of cyprus, the application of the republic of cyprus for membership of the 'partnership for peace' is welcomed as a first step towards removing obstacles to the eu-nato relationship. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the report follows on from the amendment of the union's electronic communications framework adopted by parliament and the council in november 2009. although the deadline for transposition expired on 25 may 2011, only a small number of member states have so far successfully transposed the rules, leading the commission to take the decision to launch a full, definitive 'package' of legislative proposals to create an internal market for electronic communications. this new framework responds to the need for more efficient spectrum management and effective and simple legislation and aims at the completion of the internal market for electronic communications. in this report, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament expresses its concern about the fragmentation of the electronic communications market and calls for the creation of a well-thought-out framework based on clear rules and tools to tackle these challenges.
mr president, in the countries of southern europe, spain, greece, portugal, cyprus, we are experiencing the negative chain effects of the economic crisis and unilateral austerity policies, we are experiencing increasing unemployment, poverty and the risk of exclusion of vulnerable groups. reduced social benefits, budget cuts, deregulation of labour relations are leading a lost generation of young people to seek work abroad. there is a brain drain, an increase in suicides, adoptions, abortions, we see the refusal of young people to start their own families, there is a clear risk of low fertility and further population decline. the institution of the family is being shaken. the european social model is collapsing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the negotiations. the european south is calling for solutions, investment and growth to restart the real economy. we must admit that austerity and the troika have failed. we demand an alternative policy. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − the adoption of dab 8/2013 by the council was part of the political agreement on the mff 2014-2020. dab 8/2013 concerns the increase of payment appropriations of eur 3.9 billion, with the aim of meeting the outstanding needs to the end of the year, so that legal obligations stemming from past and current commitments can be honoured. the full adoption of dab 8/2013 will enable the union to cover entirely its legal obligations until the end of 2013. financial penalties will be avoided and beneficiaries can receive the funds envisaged by the agreed union policies, for which parliament and the council authorised the related commitment appropriations in previous annual budgets. the requested additional payment appropriations will reduce not only the level of outstanding commitments but also the risk of rolling over abnormally high levels of unpaid bills into 2014.
in writing. − cultural participation is declining across europe, and especially among those countries hit the hardest by the crisis. i voted in favour of the creative europe programme for several reasons: it will strengthen eu support for the cultural and creative sectors by highlighting the dual feature of culture, business and heritage; it will safeguard cultural diversity and boost the cultural sector’s competitiveness; it will build upon earlier union programmes and initiatives in the cultural and audio-visual fields, bringing together under a common framework, the current media, media mundus and culture programmes whilst maintaining their specific characteristics and identities; it will open up international opportunities and audiences for artists and professionals by establishing sustainable networks, supporting emerging talents and facilitating access to financing. a new financial instrument will be set up for providing loan assistance to cultural and creative smes. i voted in favour of this programme, as i believe that the overall agreement is a good compromise that significantly improves the commission’s original proposal. i do regret, however, the significant 19% budget cut to the original ec budget proposal. that necessitates more dynamic synergies of all stakeholders and society, to reaffirm the valuable contribution of culture and creativity to today’s economies and societies.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme (2014-2020) is designed to contribute to citizens’ understanding of the union, its history, its diversity, to foster active european citizenship and improve the opportunities for participative democracy at union level. given the relevance of this programme to european citizens, it is disappointing that the consent procedure that was followed gave the european parliament only the option to accept or reject the text but not to amend it. i regret the budget cut to the programme of almost 20%, especially at times of unprecedented economic, political and social crisis within europe. despite this, i voted in favour of this report, as i am a strong believer in a better and deeper europe with active participation of well-informed citizens. it is important to spread the message that we all belong to the same family, and we should be able to enjoy our common european citizenship, without barriers and discrimination. the budget was unfortunately restricted. this was also the case for the european year of citizens 2013, which had the lowest ever allocated budget. these severe cuts should not, however, stop us from struggling for the europe for citizens that we dream of.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the connecting europe facility in order to ensure a more cohesive eu by promoting smart investment in european infrastructure for the period 2014-2020. the european union has put in place an investment-friendly regulatory framework for telecommunications to encourage investment in internet infrastructure. in this cef instrument there are three sectors of major importance for the future of the union and the european citizens, namely: transport, energy, and telecommunications; all of them could make a weighty contribution to achieving growth and competitiveness and reaching the eu 2020 strategic targets, as long as eu uses efficiently funds from the eu budget in the form of grants and financial instruments to help promote selected projects of european interest, without undermining the fact that there are regional territories and countries that lack skills and incentives and therefore need special focus. budgetary and operational resources should be allocated to the facility in the next mff so that this mechanism can contribute towards returning the eu to the path of sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is an important eu project with a key role in the functioning of the common market, very vital for economic, social and territorial cohesion and especially so for the creation of economic growth and jobs. the current proposal addresses well the challenges ahead for implementing ten-t. maximising european added value and prioritising in financial resources management should be supported as ways of overcoming some of the shortcomings in ten-t. binding deadlines for the completion of the project should be outlined and kept. local and civil society should be clearly involved in the realisation process, as citizens will be directly affected by these projects. we should not neglect the impact of these projects on citizens. therefore the involvement, through participation and consultation, of civil society is indispensable. infrastructure investments are of great importance for economic growth, crucial for general socio-economic recovery, offering numerous advantages for the generations to come.
madam president, women in europe account for around 60% of university graduates and half of our human capital. they are, however, under-represented in decision-making posts because of persisting gender inequalities, stereotypes and a glass-ceiling phenomenon. the fact that only 16.6% of the seats on the boards of the eu’s largest companies are held by women constitutes a democratic deficit. the situation will not change unless effective measures are taken, with considered targets and temporary quotas as well as continuous monitoring of progress. the proposed directive is welcome. it sets an ambitious target to be met by 2020, aiming to improve diversity and to improve productivity, innovation and the economic performance of european companies. we also welcome the provisional sanctions against firms that do not comply with the directive. gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions and therefore to a more resistant european economy.
in writing. i support the compromise text agreed between regi and the presidency for all regulations and in particular for the common provisions regulation, as it includes an additional allocation of eur 200 million for cyprus under the structural funds, in addition to the eur 525 million already agreed in the multiannual financial framework as well as a provision for an eu co-financing rate to cyprus of 85% until 2017 (in addition to the additional 10% provided for member states implementing a macroeconomic stability programme). i would point out, however, that in the legislative package concerning the five european structural and investment funds and the specific regulations on the european regional policy fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the funds for european territorial cooperation, there are points which could have been avoided, such as, for example, the reference to the macroeconomic precondition. i am voting for the legislation as it stands, because otherwise there will be long delays and very negative consequences not only for cyprus but for the eu in general.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the cohesion fund to include the following areas: the member states are called upon to make better use of the resources of the cohesion funds, while strictly observing budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates into no new gdp generation, but rather a reduction in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced co-financing are too high for many member states. even with community funds, the money is not enough for growth. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, voted in protest in favour of the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. the european commission is proposing a major upgrade of the european social fund (esf) operating framework for the period 2014-2020 to make it more effective in helping european citizens through co-financed programmes. the achievement of social cohesion is a challenge in the present period of high unemployment and economic impoverishment of the population, particularly in the european south. the aim of this proposal is to focus the esf on targeted actions to promote employment and labour mobility and to invest in education, skills, lifelong learning and support for young people. the aim is to mobilise all the social partners to make use of the esf at european, national, regional or local level. it calls for the efficient management of esf resources, recovery and job creation in the eu, support for the esf from the budget of the structural funds and the cohesion funds to strengthen social cohesion and the integration of young and most vulnerable populations into the labour market. member states must integrate esf policies into national employment policies and act effectively.
in writing. member states are called upon to make better use of cohesion fund resources while strictly adhering to budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates not merely into no new gdp but, on the contrary, into a fall in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced cofinancing are difficult for many member states because, even with community funds, there is not enough money for development. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the exact opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, votes in protest against the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the cohesion fund to include the following areas: the member states are called upon to make better use of the resources of the cohesion funds, while strictly observing budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates into no new gdp generation, but rather a reduction in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced co-financing are too high for many member states. even with community funds, the money is not enough for growth. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, voted in protest in favour of the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. the new erdf 2014-2020 supports regional and local development through co-financing of investments and encourages research, development and innovation in areas such as climate change, environment, business support to smes, services of common economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education, social infrastructure and sustainable urban development. the commission's proposal for the erdf for the period 2014-2020 introduces the concept of thematic concentration and emphasises the urban development strategy. a mandatory quota is established for investments under predefined thematic objectives. the strengthening of the urban dimension means that 5% of erdf resources must be allocated to urban areas. important elements are the inclusion of the needs of nuts 2 regions which are entirely island-based, the derogation for northern sparsely populated areas and the possibility of productive investments in enterprises in decentralised regions. the agreed text is simpler, clearer and aims at better prospects for growth and employment in the eu.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the cohesion fund to include the following areas: the member states are called upon to make better use of the resources of the cohesion funds, while strictly observing budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates into no new gdp generation, but rather a reduction in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced co-financing are too high for many member states. even with community funds, the money is not enough for growth. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, voted in protest in favour of the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. cohesion policy aims at european territorial cooperation (etc) and provides a framework for joint actions and policy exchanges between national, regional and local actors from different member states or from neighbouring regions of third countries. the contribution of the erdf (european regional development fund) to this cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation is necessary.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the cohesion fund to include the following areas: the member states are called upon to make better use of the resources of the cohesion funds, while strictly observing budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates into no new gdp generation, but rather a reduction in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced co-financing are too high for many member states. even with community funds, there is not enough money for growth. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, voted in protest in favour of the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. under the new legislative package, the cohesion fund will be part of the new funds of the common strategic framework for cohesion policy, which includes the structural funds, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the funds will have common provisions in the areas of planning and financial management, with a central focus on investment in growth and employment. the cohesion fund supports member states with a per capita gross national income (gni) of less than 90% of the average gni per capita of the eu-27, on the basis of a list of priorities for investment. we welcome the extension of the cohesion fund's scope to include support for energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources in the housing sector and the waste and water sectors.
in writing. explanation of vote cohesion funds the member states are called upon to make better use of the resources of the cohesion funds, while strictly observing budgetary protocols and suffocating memoranda. but eu2020 has crippled growth. this translates into no new gdp generation, but rather a reduction in it. the funds are an important factor in stimulating investment and growth. the requirements of even reduced co-financing are too high for many member states. even with community funds, there is not enough money for growth. the european solidarity must not be applied at random. the aim of cohesion policy must not be to increase market integration to the benefit of a small club of large and wealthy member states at the expense of the rest. the economic austerity policies currently being pursued in the eu are reinforcing a prolonged recession with unforeseen consequences, at a time when the opposite is needed, namely simultaneous, if not anticipatory, action to support growth and employment with a bolder and more constructive proposal. the committee on budgets, aware of the importance of the funds in the difficult circumstances we are experiencing, voted in protest in favour of the basic regulations on growth and employment.
in writing. under regulation (ec) no 1082/2006, so-called 'european territorial cooperation groups' (etcs) have legal personality and are a means of overcoming, at community level, the obstacles to such territorial cooperation. the aim is to simplify the procedures for applying the rules, reduce red tape and improve the procedure for adopting them, in order to make it much easier for regional and local authorities wishing to join them and become members.
in writing. although the report refers to the need to promote gender equality, it nevertheless clearly states that the objective is to fully meet market needs and to implement the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, the policy framework of the europe 2020 strategy does not allow for the objective of combating discrimination against women. gender equality cannot be achieved in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. in a competitive society based on exploitation, 'security', competition and oppression. as regards the proposal to adopt the compulsory quota measure, we are convinced that this proposal is not a response to social problems and social inequalities, especially since the eu has no right to intervene in the internal affairs of the member states and to impose the adoption of such practices. we believe that it is up to the member states to decide whether and to what extent they want to apply the quota measure. the report fails to address the problem in its proper context because it does not mention at all the need to combat social problems as a comprehensive response to the effort to combat inequalities and redefine the position of women in society.
in writing. although the report refers to the need to promote gender equality, it nevertheless clearly states that the objective is to fully meet market needs and to implement the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, the policy framework of the europe 2020 strategy does not allow for the objective of combating discrimination against women. gender equality cannot be achieved in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. in a competitive society based on exploitation, 'security', competition and oppression. as regards the proposal to adopt the compulsory quota measure, we are convinced that this proposal is not a response to social problems and social inequalities, especially since the eu has no right to intervene in the internal affairs of the member states and to impose the adoption of such practices. we believe that it is up to the member states to decide whether and to what extent they want to apply the quota measure. the report fails to address the problem in its proper context because it does not mention at all the need to combat social problems as a comprehensive response to the effort to combat inequalities and redefine the position of women in society.
in writing. − better financing, management and monitoring of the cap will improve future evaluation of progress, efficiency and effectiveness of the europe 2020 economic, environmental and social challenges, for the agricultural and rural areas, through sustainable and inclusive goals. these goals aim for: viable food production; sustainable management of natural resources; climate action and a balanced territorial development. cap reforms include among other things direct payments to farmers and the establishment of the single common market organisation (cmo) which aims to streamline, expand and simplify the current provisions. a third reform is the rural development regulation which covers voluntary measures for rural development. finally a horizontal regulation sets common rules to be implemented for expenditure, management and control systems. the involvement of the european parliament as co-legislator in this cap reform, proved its ability to make the reform in a better and more democratic way, safeguarding at the same time the rights and benefits of the farmers.
in writing. − rural development is an important policy area, which affects more than half of the population of eu citizens and nearly 90% of eu land. the main focus of rural economies is farming and forestry. rural development focuses on revitalising rural areas in other ways too. issues such as climate change, renewable energy, biodiversity and water management are becoming increasingly important aspects of the eu’s rural development policy. the european agricultural fund for rural development aims: to strengthen and simplify the implementation of the rural development policy; to increase the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry; to improve the environment, the countryside, but also the quality of life and the management of economic activity in rural areas. key issues to be highlighted from the outcome of the fund negotiations are: the no double funding point; the research and development resources and national distribution; co-financing rates; minimum mandatory funding rate and also the risk management measures which co-finance member states on a voluntary basis. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products is a significant component and constitutes a high priority in the current cap reform. the single cmo regulation established a common organisation of the markets for products of particular agricultural sectors, with common rules concerning marketing periods, private storage, reference prices, intervention prices and disposal of products bought under public intervention. key points of the report are: for the sugar sector, the quota system which will end on september 30th 2017; for the wine sector, a new system for wine planting rights that will apply; for the milk sector, the rejection of new measures by the council that aimed to address severe imbalances in the market in view of the future abolition of milk quotas. however, there was approval of the commission’s power to intervene and adopt measures in case of market imbalances in the milk sector. as regards export refunds, they can only be used in times of crisis. this common organisation of the markets simplifies and unifies different previously existing regulations.
in writing. − direct payments to farmers are a significant part of the cap and its current reform. a balance between income support and new public challenges is something the reform is trying to achieve, by integrating environmental requirements through a strong greening component into the first pillar. the commission’s proposal of thirty percent of direct payments will be given for greening requirements, so as to ensure that all farms deliver environmental and climate benefits. furthermore, a special and additional support has been proposed for small farmers and other young people both as an incentive to stay in or enter the industry. in addition, the commission also proposed a capping of farms which receive large amounts of direct payments, but at the same time it stressed the need to reduce the differences in direct payments received by farms in different member states.
in writing. − with the adoption of the transitional rules on support for rural development, farmers will have legal certainty. these rules outline technical arrangements which will allow both a smooth transition from the current provisions to the reformed cap and also a new legal framework. furthermore, a flexibility mechanism will allow member states to transfer funds from one cap pillar to another. the points that need to be highlighted are: the implementation of the new direct payment method from 1 january 2015, including the ‘new greening measures;’ the publication of data of cap beneficiaries for the financial year 2014; the ability of member states to increase the maximum rate of certain coupled support schemes. finally, as regards rural development coherence, a continuous transition is needed between the new and the ongoing commitments so as to interlink these two together.
in writing. − the location of seats of the european union’s institutions has always been a sensitive matter, with intense and controversial debates, and delicate political compromises. at times of financial austerity, budgetary constraints, and greater criticism of the political system and the politicians by eu citizens, we cannot ignore the need for improvement of the functioning of european institutions, for cutting down their operational costs and for ensuring their fair geographic dispersion within eu. financial, environmental, organisational and logistical factors must be seriously considered, in particular in the case of the seats of the european parliament. the legal framework of the current treaties imposes constraints which should, in my opinion, be lifted so as to allow the ep to decide on its own, what is best for its working structure, its location and its number of seats. i support the revision of the treaty procedure under article 48 teu, to amend articles 341 and protocol 6 as needed, so that the ep has the right to fully decide on such matters.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs research and innovation more than ever today. horizon 2020 can give a significant boost to the economy and to smart and sustainable development by ensuring the scientific and technological base and competitiveness in the industrial arena. the representation of women, which is currently very low, is an important element in the whole project. as the author of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i welcome the incorporation of the gender dimension in this programme. in order to achieve scientific excellence and technological innovation, horizon 2020 should be open and provide equal opportunities for women researchers in terms of representation, mobility, funding and career progression to leadership positions, despite the 'glass ceiling' phenomenon. finally, let us not underestimate the skills and talents of the new generation of women researchers, a generation that is facing the spectre of unemployment today.
in writing. − reliable and accurate european statistics are the building-blocks upon which policy-makers make decisions. they act as a barometer to read the state of our economy and society providing assurance to other governments and the financial markets. on the other hand, misleading and fraudulent statistics can add to political and economic turmoil. the last two years have seen wholesale reforms to the eu’s economic governance aimed at improving trust in the system. it is necessary to do the same for the european statistical system (ess) in order to bring confidence back into european and national statistics and ensure that the functioning of the ess is consistent, reliable and transparent. in order to achieve the above, we need to increase the level of democratic scrutiny and accountability and ensure a strong role for the european parliament.
in writing. − the regulation on the customs 2020 programme contains a budgetary framework of eur 548 080 000 for the period of 2014-2020. it aims at facilitating and enhancing cooperation between customs authorities within the eu, especially for cross-border activities, whilst also strengthening the link with the internal market and eu customs. given the problem dynamics of new challenges in customs and the need to protect citizens from security and safety risks posed by international trade in goods, an additional emphasis should be given to the harmonisation and standardisation of the procedures for customs controls and to fight against fraud. in addition to that, a certain degree of flexibility should also be maintained, in order to respond to changed policy priorities.
in writing. − this report focuses on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp), highlighting the aspects of european security and at the same time proposing to release the potential of the treaties in this field. the measures which have been put forward in order to strengthen the csdp are increasing the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the csdp, enhancing the development of defence capabilities and finally, strengthening europe’s defence industry. the csdp is a major element of the common foreign and security policy of the eu. furthermore, it is the central eu policy which covers defence, military aspects as well as civilian crisis management. therefore, these proposals should be considered in all discussions of member states, as they will shape the future of the csdp.
in writing. − this report underlines the need to strengthen the european defence technological and industrial base. it describes the future of the european defence industrial landscape and is based on capability-driven, competence and competitiveness. it stresses the need to harmonise the requirements and to consolidate the demand; to have armament cooperation; to strengthen the internal market in defence equipment; and to have support of all missions through european research and development. the strengthening of the european defence technological and industrial base will create positive effects in research, development and job creation. it will also increase the level of security of the european union. furthermore, it will strengthen the european defence agency.
in writing. − the protection and improvement of workers’ health and safety is imperative for the achievement of decent work. to this end convention no 170 can be a key instrument for the prevention and reduction of chemically induced illnesses and injuries at work, also enhancing the protection of the general public and the environment. i embrace the proposal for a decision of the council to authorise the member states to ratify, in the interests of the union, those parts of chemicals convention no 170 that fall under union competence and to encourage member states to swiftly ratify convention no 170. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european space industry occupies a strategic niche in the eu economy. in 2012 the european space manufacturing industry generated more than eur 6.5 billion a year in final sales, about one third of world output in the space industry. the space manufacturing industry employed the equivalent of 34 500 people (2012 figures) full-time in eu member states (ms), an increase of roughly 20 % since 2006. the space industry contributes in many ways to the objectives of the euʼs economic strategy for this decade (the europe 2020 strategy) of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. europe’s space industry is increasingly under pressure from established and emerging space powers and cannot rely only on its past investments and legacy of successes to remain competitive on the global market. we need to ensure that europe will develop further a balanced space industrial base, notably by bringing more smes into this sector, gaining or maintaining technological leadership, remaining non-dependent in sectors like launchers, and ensuring that there are sufficient people in the job market with the skills required for jobs in the space industry.
in writing. − cloud computing is the next big evolution for the internet. everyone from individuals to major corporations and governments will thus be able to move their data storage and processing into remote data centres. the proposed report is the ep’s answer to the ec strategy on cloud computing. cloud computing could positively affect growth and lead to job creation. it can be extremely beneficial for various sectors of the economy such as health care, energy, public services and education. moreover, widespread adoption of cloud computing will prove essential for improving productivity levels in the european economy. a vital precondition for success of this strategy is adequate investment on high-capacity and on secure communications infrastructure in europe. moreover, we highlight the importance of a clear legal framework in the field of copyright content in the cloud. the eu should think and act proactively in order to avoid being dependent on services and standards of countries provided by other world regions. i voted in favour of the eu three-pronged cloud computing strategy, because it aims: (a) to cut through the jungle of different standards; (b) to identify safe and fair contract terms and conditions; and (c) to establish a european cloud partnership, with the participation of public authorities and industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to enhance cooperation between the eu and the member states to increase their effectiveness in terms of prevention, preparedness and response in the event of disasters, inside and outside the eu. the union civil protection mechanism strengthens the expression of european solidarity. it also protects not only, first and foremost, people but it may also act on the environment and property, including cultural sites. the recent experience of eu action in the aftermath of the typhoon which hit the philippines showed that disaster response, rehabilitation and development efforts must tie in with each other. the budget fixed for prevention, preparedness and response activities is quite satisfactory given the long negotiations. therefore, it is very important that actions for preparedness to deal with natural and man-made disasters will receive 50 % of the total funding, thus allowing member states to remove gaps in disaster-response capacity. the eu has always been a major actor on the international scene in regard to providing assistance when disaster strikes. it is therefore crucial that our efficiency in delivering relief and aid in difficult situations be improved through this mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new community measures on mortgages because i believe that home buyers should not only be well informed about the terms of the mortgage but also be fully protected in the event of default. i welcome the fact that a stable and sustainable pan-european market and a more balanced relationship between lenders and borrowers is being sought, and that the european banking authority will also be able to carry out investigations into possible breaches or non-application of the rules by requesting information from competent authorities in the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the measures proposed by the european commission to defer the auctioning of part of the credits received or purchased by companies in the member states under the carbon trading scheme (ccts) because, given the economic crisis and the excessive surplus of emission allowances, i believe that the measures adopted by the european parliament will boost the price of emission allowances and encourage companies to invest in innovative low-carbon projects, as the cts is able to reward companies that contribute to combating climate change.
in writing. − roma women are among the most vulnerable groups in the eu. they suffer because of patriarchal structures, persisting gender inequality, sexist traditions and stereotypes that prevent them from enjoying and exercising freedom of choice in fundamental issues of their life. few women work and most of them face discrimination at their workplace. they are among the most vulnerable victims of extreme poverty, inadequate health care and illiteracy. they often fall victims of trafficking and prostitution within the eu and suffer sexual harassment and exploitation. i fully support adequate allocation of funding of appropriate programmes and strategies of the national action plans so as to empower roma women to support themselves and to avoid the risk of unemployment and poverty. they need to be empowered to overcome barriers in accessing health care systems and education and to avoid early teenage pregnancies. special programmes are needed to encourage young roma girls to stay at school. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the automotive industry is a key component of our industrial economy, and is of great symbolic importance. it is a sector which is representative of the specific features and needs of european industry as a whole, and should therefore be treated as an urgent political priority. with 12 million sector-related jobs, the automotive industry is vital to europeʼs prosperity and job creation. the eu needs to maintain a world-class car industry, producing the most energy-efficient and safe vehicles globally and thus providing high-skilled jobs to millions. however, the european automotive industry has been facing an increasingly difficult period, with the eu market for new cars declining for the fifth consecutive year. in addition to that, the industry is currently facing several changes, such as a shift in production and trade patterns, a more urgent climate agenda, more attention being paid to road safety, etc. i voted in favour of this report believing that the cars 2020 action plan will reinforce the industryʼs competitiveness and sustainability heading towards 2020. improving and increasing competitiveness is crucial in creating jobs and wealth in europe.
in writing. − i have noticed there has been an electronic error during the voting on the estrela report on ʻsexual and reproductive health and rightsʼ, regarding amendment 2rev on 10 december 2013, as on the electronic results it would seem that i have not voted at all. therefore i would like to clarify that i have indeed voted against this am and i did not abstain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on volunteering and voluntary activity in europe as i believe firmly that volunteering is of central importance to democratic pluralist societies. being a volunteer is all about getting involved and making an active contribution to society. the term ‘volunteeringʼ covers all forms of unpaid work carried out by individuals, whether on a formal, informal or non-formal basis, of their own free will. this own-initiative report is in response to the commission report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the 2011 european year of volunteering. the report highlights that volunteering is key for active citizenship and democracy as well as for promoting social and economic cohesion. it is also noted that formal, informal and non-formal training enhance volunteers’ skills and empower them. the report calls among others things for: the validation of non-formal and informal learning via europass; the swift launching, adoption or revision of legislation on volunteering by member states; a focus on strengthening volunteersʼ rights and support for close cooperation with volunteer ngos. it calls too for volunteering time to be recognised as an eligible prerequisite for in-kind co-financing for all european grants.
in writing. the pericles programme has played an important role in that it was designed and implemented to combat counterfeiting and counterfeiting and thus contribute to the protection of the union's economic interests. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to improve the programme even further by making the best use of the limited resources available for its implementation. among other things, the proposed co-financing rates are reduced (article 10) in order to avoid significant financial pressure on the fund responsible. efforts are made to improve monitoring, evaluation and management mechanisms (article 12) and delegated acts are introduced, in accordance with the powers conferred on the european parliament under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − according to eurostat data, there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, 89% of them are women and 50% of them migrants. these domestic workers often find themselves in extremely vulnerable situations. they become victims of discrimination, exploitation, underpayment, violation of their human rights, without effective protection against abusive practices. as an s&d shadow rapporteur, i therefore believe that the ep should give its consent to the council decision to authorise member states to ratify ilo convention no 189, which aims to guarantee basic working rights of domestic workers namely by (1) establishing a minimum age for domestic work and safeguards for workers under age 18, (2) ensuring fair terms and decent conditions of employment and (3) developing a specific complaints mechanism to guarantee their equal treatment. a vote in favour today clearly shows the ep’s support and that we as parliamentarians care about protecting decent work and setting minimum labour protection levels for all people without any discrimination.
in writing. − the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for participation of armenia in eu programmes. it is based on the eu-armenia partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) which regulates the relations between armenia and the eu since 1999. the principal aims of the pca are to: to provide eu-armenia cooperation by developing political relations; to establish respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights and the transition to a market economy; and finally to regulate trade relations between the sides as well as the legal, social, economic, financial, scientific, civil and cultural relationship and partnership. in addition to the above, this protocol will create a legal basis for the armenian institutions to benefit from closer contacts with their eu counterparts, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links. at the same time it will ensure armenia’s financial contribution to the specific programmes it participates in.
in writing. − eu donor coordination on development aid must be more effective for in-country and cross-country division of labor between the eu and the member states. besides gdp, other important indicators such as in-country poverty, inequality and vulnerability must be taken into account in order to increase aid effectiveness and maximize efficiency. most importantly, the eu must ensure that the commitments for effective aid and development are represented in all financial mechanisms which deal with development cooperation. with the economic crisis in europe still pending it is appropriate to make efforts for: - annual savings of about €8.4 billion which can be achieved through better coordination of country allocation and by solely targeting towards poverty reduction; - annual savings of about €800 million that can be made by cutting transaction costs if aid efforts were concentrated on fewer activities and countries. i do believe that by reducing aid fragmentation, the effectiveness and efficiency of aid will be increased and billions can be saved. a new instrument in the form of a regulation for coordinating development aid in the eu, should be established helping towards this direction. i voted in favor.
in writing. − the task of building and sustaining a culture of human rights and of supporting the emergence of an independent civil society, by enhancing its role in its country and making democracy work for all, is a continuous challenge. it is a challenge which should also be a commitment for the international community, but a commitment first and foremost to the people of countries with emerging democracies. the eu should promote and implement a rights-based approach encompassing all human rights, whether civil and political, economic, social or cultural. a commitment to respect, promote and protect human rights and democratic principles is most definitely an essential element of the eu’s contractual relations with third countries. in order to address these issues in an effective, transparent, timely and flexible manner and optimise the impact of the union’s external action, there is a continuous need for appropriate and efficient use of available specific financial resources. a separate financing instrument that can continue to work in an independent manner is also essential.
in writing. despite the reduction in the budget of the european globalisation adjustment fund from eur 3.5 billion to eur 1.05 billion, the european parliament has managed to ensure the continuation of financial support for displaced workers by adjusting its scope. it covers people who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis, those suffering from the consequences of globalisation, and it is being extended to new categories of workers such as fixed-term contract workers, temporary workers and the self-employed, and will support additional categories of unemployed and young people from areas of mass redundancies. the cor can become more attractive and user-friendly to the member states with well-planned and efficient management, adequate budget and more flexibility in the needs of the workers if it manages to improve its too slow response rate. the member states should also make greater use of the fund, so they need to be better informed.
in writing. − the proposal concerns the transport of radioactive materials by road, rail and inland waterway and aims to replace the current national reporting and authorisation procedures with a harmonised registration system to simplify and reduce administrative burden and ensure high levels of protection from radiation. carriers of radioactive materials are covered by transport legislation under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and legislation on the radiation-specific aspects, including the health protection of workers and the general public, comes under the euratom treaty. according to article 33 of the euratom treaty, member states are required to lay down appropriate provisions to ensure compliance with the basic standards. member states have implemented these procedures in differing systems, thereby adding to the complexity of transport operations as such. replacing these national reporting and authorisation procedures by a unique registration system for the practice of transport will therefore help to simplify the procedure, reduce administrative burden and do away with barriers to entry, while the high radiation protection levels reached will be maintained. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the expiry of milk quotas in 2015 will cause market disruption in the dairy sector, especially in the less favoured areas and the outermost regions, where milk production is often the only source of income and where the local community depends heavily on the dairy sector. therefore, a dairy package aiming to strengthen the power of milk producers is essential to ensure a decent living for farmers and a better future for the less favoured, environmentally sensitive and/or economically vulnerable areas. it is important: to maintain milk production in these areas and support at appropriate levels to satisfy consumption, without incurring costs of unreasonable transport; to ensure adequate compensation from pillar ii - cap; to encourage creation of partnerships for the promotion of agro-environmental tourism; and to proceed with innovative research in order to address challenges of productivity and climate change.
in writing. − the impact of disasters causes major economic loss for governments and the population, as well as an enormous loss of life. disaster risk reduction (drr) is an important factor, as it involves analysing and managing hazards so as to reduce vulnerability and build resilience. the eu’s resilience should be focused on the most vulnerable, poorest and marginalised populations. therefore, local institutions should be strengthened by the commission. investment in drr measures, in advance of disasters, will be more cost-effective than responding after a disaster. hence, sustainable development and further investment in drr and resilience strategies are seen as essential, whereby food security and nutrition must be enhanced in the programmes. however, better coordination of efforts and an improvement in member statesʼ funding methods is needed for this to work. greater collaboration with non-eu countries and institutions is necessary for disaster preparedness, response and reconstruction.
in writing. − women with disabilities are the victims of two-fold discrimination, as women and as people with disabilities. although the eu has created a solid and growing anti-discrimination framework, it has not paid sufficient attention to the question of intersectional discrimination and specifically that of gender and disability. therefore, i welcome parliamentʼs decision to draw up a report on ‘women with disabilities’. i fully support the content of this report because i share the view that women with disabilities must be treated as equal and fully adequate citizens and persons. unfortunately the economic crisis and the severe cuts in public healthcare and social services in most member states are having detrimental consequences for vulnerable people, including women with disabilities, as they now experience higher risks of poverty, unemployment and social isolation. the report underlines all kinds of discrimination disabled women face, like unemployment, lack of education, lack of mobility and difficulties with marriage and motherhood. it highlights too their vulnerability to violence including domestic and sexual exploitation and abuse. action is required to improve the quality of life of women with disabilities, including the mainstreaming of disability policies, use of structural funds as much as possible and better housing to cater for their special needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. retail is seen as one of the main pillars of major economic importance for the single market as it accounts for 11 % of the eu’s gdp and 15 % of eu employment. however it has been hit hard by the economic crisis. consumer purchases have decreased dramatically. in some member states vat has risen, making it difficult for consumers to buy products and for retailers to survive. furthermore, many retailers who want to be active within member states still face obstacles with regard to different packaging and labelling requirements and administrative practices.
mr president, mr draghi and mr olli rehn, i bring to you the voice of disappointment from cyprus and from my indignant cypriot compatriots who feel that they have been the guinea pigs for an unprecedented experiment in the shaving of deposits. i bring to you the questions i get asked every day: why did you apply to the semi-occupied cyprus for the first time such a drastic solution as the cutting of deposits? why did you use this method instead of debt haircuts? why was the supervision of the european central bank so inadequate? why do ordinary citizens have to pay for the mistakes of banks ? what about deposits under 100,000 euros? will they really be secured in the future? how will you assess the action of the troika? do you think that only with strict austerity policies, no growth and no investment, you have given solutions? unemployment is on the rise, so is recession and deflation. unfortunately, you have failed to provide solutions. when and how will you finally stop this descent?
in writing. − eco-innovation, is a concept combining protection of the environment with growth, competitiveness and job creation. environmentally friendly innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with less impact on the environment. over the last years, about a million new green jobs have been created, and in many countries greentech is already one of the largest employers in the european economy. in germany this sector already contributes 8% to the gdp, and is expected to rise to 14% by 2020. in austria, 4.8 % of all employees work within the green jobs sector, which, despite the economic crisis, rose by 0.6 % from 2010 to 2011. the global turnover in the greentech sector is expected to double to €3100 billion by 2020. in times of economic crisis and high unemployment rates sustainable job creation and economic growth is essential to secure social cohesion. eco-innovation could be one of the keys to meet this target and should therefore be fostered. i voted in favor of this report.
in writing. − the european capitals of culture action is certainly one of the most successful eu initiatives of the past few years. it confers international prestige, motivates citizens to implement strategies for sustainable development, and boosts tourism and competitiveness within the cultural and creative sectors. furthermore, it involves different areas of society in cultural activities. it is therefore essential in the present economic crisis that incentives such as these are encouraged. investment in culture and creativity can certainly create long-term initiatives for a europe of cultural values that unites us all and which is looking forward to a more prosperous future.
in writing. − roma suffer discrimination throughout europe. their socioeconomic and fundamental rights situation is in many cases worse than that of non-roma. the eu, however, is founded on the principles and values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. therefore, any discrimination and racism against roma, is condemned. the commission and the member states must ensure that the relevant eu directives are implemented. furthermore, a monitoring mechanism is needed to follow up the implementation of fundamental rights, recording and targeting anti-roma incidents and the increasing hate crime against roma in many european societies. there must be collaborative action between all stakeholders within a member state and at pan-european level against any violations of the fundamental rights and human rights of roma. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon gave the european council the status of a european institution, without changing its role. under the pressure of the current crisis, the european council has considerably aggrandised its role by increasing the number of extraordinary meetings and by raising to european council level matters normally dealt with at council of ministers level. in this respect the european council goes beyond the crucial treaty injunction that it had no legislative functions. the temptation for heads of state or government to resort to intergovernmental expedients jeopardises the ‘community method’, in breach of the treaties. a clear agreement is needed to improve and formalise the working relations between the european council and parliament (either through a joint statement or an interinstitutional agreement or an exchange of letters). at the moment, members of the european council are accountable individually to their own national parliaments but accountable collectively only to themselves.
