mr president, let us accept the fact that it is difficult to convince employees of the need for restructuring and redundancies. we know from experience that employees and their trade unions usually try to use all possible means, including legal proceedings, to obstruct and delay restructuring. the decisiveness, speed and consistency of the implementation of this step wherever it is needed are essential for the success of restructuring and the preservation of social peace. it must be unambiguous, based on pre-established clear and transparent rules which need not be discussed, but simply made known. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that it is desirable to ensure that workers are kept as well informed as possible, if only to avoid demotivating those who are to remain. however, i cannot agree with the need to regulate this area, to adopt legislation at european level on information and consultation of workers or to create supervisory measures on the activities of undertakings.
mr president, europe cannot afford to lose a generation of young people. the youth unemployment figures in europe are appalling. in 13 member states, it reached more than 25%. there are countries where it exceeds 55%. in total, 5.5 million young people are unemployed in the european union. these are not numbers, these are the fates of people at the crossroads of power and productive life. that can't leave us indifferent. sure, we can wait for the economy to improve, wait for growth to bring jobs. but for millions of young europeans, it may be too late. and the policy of cuts is prolonging that wait. although there are some sceptical voices about the usefulness of a guarantee instrument for young people, which would make it easier for them to get a job, i very much welcome the proposal to introduce such an instrument. the situation is indeed urgent. however, the operation of this instrument must be discussed, in particular, with all the local actors in practice, in order to make it effective, really practical and without any doubt.
madam president, it is clear to everyone that the topics discussed are very closely linked to the negotiations we are conducting on the legislative package on cohesion policy and the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. consensus in these areas must be a win-win situation, and unless everything is agreed, nothing is agreed. while we in brussels and strasbourg are negotiating legislation in detail, implementation structures are already being created at home and programmes for the use of european funds for the next programming period are slowly being set up. it starts next year. all the discussions so far have shown that cities and agglomerations should play a stronger role in the implementation structures in the future. it is clear to everyone that only those cities with sufficient administrative capacity and the ability to manage significant amounts of funds can do so. therefore, these cities need to be more involved in the implementation structures in the individual member states and informed about the possibilities offered to them by the upcoming legislation. at this point, i would like to invite the commission to keep up to date with the involvement of cities in the proposed implementation structures and to actively invite city representatives to negotiate partner contracts and operational programmes. while investment in those areas where it has the greatest impact should be prioritised, smaller towns and villages should not be forgotten. in addition, the rural areas have a more difficult situation in using the european funds because, in addition to the structural funds, they also benefit from the european agricultural fund for rural development. so far, they have faced problems arising from different rules for implementing different european projects, for example, non-refundable value added tax is eligible for one programme but not for another. it is therefore certainly right that there should be common rules for all the funds. like the rapporteur, i am also convinced that a single contact and information point with access to information on all funds would also be of great help to smaller municipalities. a uniform approach to applications, payments, monitoring and evaluation would also help them to simplify the whole process of using european funds. i therefore believe that the commission should encourage the member states to make the system for using european funds as simple as possible. but the whole process needs to be accelerated. the fact that the next programming period will be delayed seems, unfortunately, to be an inevitable reality today. let us not allow this delay to be the same or even greater than in 2007. in this respect, the danish presidency in particular has a lot of work to do, and we must all support it.
mr president, territorial cohesion is one of the key principles of the europe 2020 strategy. if we want to be credible to european citizens as a community of solidarity, we must also make a clear case for supporting less developed regions when negotiating the shape of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. as the shadow rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism on the common strategic framework funds, i have placed particular emphasis on supporting the development of basic transport infrastructure in less developed regions, in line with the principles of territorial and social cohesion, as also mentioned in the white paper on transport 2050. however, this will not be possible without at least maintaining the current level of cohesion policy funding. i therefore find it unacceptable that funding for the so-called cohesion countries should be reduced in favour of competing for it on a first-come, first-served basis, as proposed by the commission under the connecting europe facility (cef). the less developed regions must be able to benefit from the full amount of cohesion fund resources allocated to them, provided that they prepare quality and transparent projects.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, andrea cozzolino, i believe that local development should be a fundamental principle for the future direction of cohesion policy, because it is the mayors who know best what projects are needed. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which emphasises the role of cities in the management of european funds.
in writing. i welcomed the emphasis on subsidiarity in this report. i share the rapporteur's view that, given the different sizes of settlements and the economic and administrative resources available in each member state, it is not desirable to standardise territorial cohesion. territorial cohesion requires flexibility so that the content, organisational and financial dimensions correspond to the needs of regional and local authorities in each member state. after careful consideration, i welcomed the subregional and flexible focus of this report, believing that it offers a positive contribution to the ongoing debate on the future legislative shape of the structural funds after 2013. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. − this report focuses on the review of the implementation of the solidarity fund. calls on the commission to simplify procedures at european level and to avoid delays, as the time needed to release the solidarity fund to the affected member states is unacceptably long. although not without problems, the fund has a clear added value and plays an important role in the rehabilitation of infrastructure in the affected areas. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i support the creation of a regulation that should guarantee the right to good administration through an open, efficient and independent administration based on european administrative procedural law. however, i would stress that the scope of this regulation should be limited to proceedings before the institutions of the european union and should in no way interfere with administrative procedures before the authorities of the member states. i believe that a standard with such a well-defined scope can provide citizens and businesses with legal certainty and predictability of administrative decisions when dealing with eu institutions. because the current situation in proceedings before the eu institutions is no longer sustainable. the decision-making process of these authorities is fragmented into a number of legal standards of different legal status, many of which are only methodological guidelines of an internal nature with which ordinary citizens and businesses have no opportunity to become acquainted. this in turn makes the administrative decisions of the eu institutions unpredictable. what i consider to be an open question in the matter of the codification of eu administrative procedural law is how to review administrative decisions by an independent body so that we do not create another bureaucratic institution.
mr president, the desire to introduce legislation on credit rating agencies is perhaps understandable after the dramatic moments of the economic crisis. but it is not so simple and clear to answer unambiguously that this is the right direction. it must be borne in mind that the influence and impact of the opinions of credit rating agencies is mainly due to their long-term presence on the market and their fierce internal competition. if we introduce any legislation, the serious question is whether, over time, there will be an administrative alibi behaviour and thus a loss of their main function as an objective evaluator. the valuation of sovereign debt is a highly risky activity in its effects. it is certainly reasonable to limit the subjective influence of the issuing of the rating and to limit the possible capital participation of the owners of the agency. however, whether the additional rules will actually significantly reduce the risk of subsequent events is debatable. the result of the agreed adjustments is an improvement, in my view we should minimise interference in the process and expose the agencies to greater responsibility for their declarations without the possibility of hiding behind administrative duties.
economics as a social science seeks exact methods by which to approach objective knowledge and to gain the ability to predict future developments. and because this goal is not very successful, we see an increasingly intense effort to objectify some of the tools that the economy uses. it's about audits, ratings and creating different aggregates. in particular, the crisis of 2007-2008, which continues in varying degrees in advanced capitalist countries, raises urgent questions about the objectivity of audits and ratings. the ep and council regulation is now the third time that it has been improved. the independence and objectivity of the assessment, the methodology of the work and the obligation of a number of institutions to provide objective data are all in question. in the context of the crisis in the peripheral economies of the euro area, the proposal by mr domenici focuses on the independence and objectivity of the authors, especially in the rating of countries. it's interesting that the enormous influence of the three largest agencies based in the united states is not addressed at all. the new emphasis is on internal controls by companies and states. the author seeks solutions in more frequent controls and in limiting the possibility of unsolicited state controls. it is essential to ensure the independence of the external agency from the controlled entity. in any event, we see an attempt to obtain objective information on the 'financial health' of the audited entity. i believe that the solution to the current crisis of capitalism must be found in changing the system, not in trying to improve the control activities in a piecemeal way. i support the motion, though.
in writing. credit rating agencies have contributed to the deepening of the economic crisis in the euro area and it is therefore not possible to tolerate any longer a situation in which these agencies have such significant and unchecked power. in several cases, the downgrading of the agency's rating has put the feet of countries recovering from the worst crisis on the ground, undermining eu efforts to respond to the crisis. we've gotten to a situation where private rating agencies have too much power and can arbitrarily influence not only the decisions of investors, but especially the destinies of many people. the answer can only be to introduce clearer rules for the agencies to continue to follow. this will not only increase transparency in this area but also, and above all, reduce the possibility of abusing the privileged position of a few companies. it should be stressed that the proposed rules are by no means an attack on free markets, but a fight to save them. this move should be clearly appreciated by the financial markets. only transparency and ownership can prevent credit rating agencies from creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. the speculation that the rating agency creates the conditions for is not finance, it's piracy. for the above reasons, it is essential that the amendments proposed by the european parliament be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
madam president, i think i can put this serious debate to one side and say that the honourable member, mr werner langen, has already said everything for me and i can therefore give the floor to the next speaker. i think the debate is pretty simple. the eurobond debate is about finding a solution where foreign debts are paid by someone else. every speaker here talks about the dangers of moral gambling and how to create insurance to avoid moral gambling, knowing that moral gambling will happen anyway, that the responsible will pay for what the irresponsible ate in better times. no wonder those who are supposed to be the dominant ones paying the debts of those who have outstripped them are now demanding some form of serious guarantees. and with no serious guarantees in sight today, it's no wonder that this debate is so passionate and so deeply divisive about the european union. i fear that its consequences for the future of the european political concept may be very serious.
for the ecr group. madam president, i often speak critically in this house and i am pleased to say at the very beginning of my speech today that mr pallone's report contains a number of positive things, a number of observations which we approve, support and even praise the rapporteurs for in my speech. i appreciate that mr pallone specifically mentions the need for government reform to remove administrative burdens. i think that is also important to say on the floor of the european parliament, which very often produces completely meaningless and unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, and it is good that the report emphasizes this. i think you, mr. pallone, should be commended for eliminating unnecessary levels of government, which means extra money that is then spent inefficiently. what is remarkable is your request to align the skills offer with the needs of the labour market, which i think is also very important. but what i want to specifically commend you for is your remark that you call for lower taxes on labor and no tax increases and emphasize the investigation of inefficient spending. i think that's absolutely positive. we european conservatives would add that in your report we would like more tax competition, more privatisation, more trust in private enterprise, less regulation, but i suppose we can fine-tune that together in the future. the report is more or less good and i am very pleased to be able to say many positive things about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to see you again after a few weeks, to recall our meeting in dublin and to wish you success in your presidency. i look forward to it, and i believe that it will be a presidency that is healthy and realistic, as is usually the case with the presidencies of the smaller european countries. i like that you mentioned international trade as one of your priorities. we have a number of international treaties that are broken down. unfortunately, sometimes in this parliament, trade policy becomes a hostage to political competition that is not its business. i guess you'll have to get used to it, and i hope you can make it through. i also like that you mentioned the importance of transatlantic relations in your priorities. unfortunately, that's not something that you hear very often here, and the fact is that under the obama administration, the united states is looking at a slightly different area of the world than europe is. so i hope that, with your help, we can change that. regarding the future of europe, unfortunately there is a certain phobia of different opinions, the various eurofederalist groups refuse to hear alternative visions of the european union. i am convinced that this will not be your case either and that you will contribute to a fruitful dialogue on this matter. so i wish you, as i said in dublin, that your presidency will be like irish whiskey, with flavour, colour and, if possible, a full glass.
in writing. − the economic, financial and banking crisis persists, the public debt-to-gdp ratio rose to 88,2% in the first quarter of 2012 and the problem of high youth unemployment persists. in this context, a long-term and credible strategy of fiscal consolidation in terms of expenditure and revenue is still needed, while striking a balance between strengthening sustainable growth, economic development and social protection. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − today's vote is an important step towards freeing eu member states from their fatal dependence on credit rating agencies. it is not acceptable to be able to evaluate national economies without clear criteria and a transparent methodology. in addition, the fixed calendar should prevent situations where the agencies could deliberately issue unfavourable assessments before important policy decisions. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. − this own-initiative report assesses the results achieved in the current programming period and offers recommendations on how cohesion policy can better support the implementation of the eu's new energy priorities in the regions. i can support most of these recommendations, including the call for energy savings to be given priority, which is why i voted for this report.
i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the tragedy in bangladesh. but unfortunately, this is just the tip of the iceberg. the basis is unsustainable working conditions, including safety, but also minimal to no social and environmental conditions. we are witnessing the exploitation of people, including children, but we must not be hypocritical about it. corporate social responsibility cannot be left to the will of the corporations, but should be a required, legislated and enforced standard on a global scale. the eu should play a much more active role in this respect. the value chain should be demonstrable and clear. competitiveness based on social and environmental dumping is not only immoral, it is also unsustainable.
i have received seven motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation from the committee on international trade on the interim agreement establishing a framework for an ec-eastern and southern africa states economic partnership agreement (c7-0193/2012), and– the commission statement on implementation of the iepa between the european community and eastern and southern africa states in light of the current situation in zimbabwe.
i have received three motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written statements (rule 149)
the agenda includes a debate on: the question for oral answer to the commission on the modernisation of the customs code and the introduction of a list of non-preferential rules of origin, put forward by godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, andreas schwab and daniel caspary for the european people's party (christian democrats) club (o-000208/2012 b7-0101/2013) and the question for oral answer to the commission on the modernisation of the customs code and the introduction of a list of non-preferential rules of origin, put forward by silvana koch-mehrin for the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000001/2013 b7-0105/2013).
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
for the ecr group. madam president, travelling on holiday can often be complicated and expensive. especially in the case of luggage, excesses can make life very difficult for passengers. leaving aside the possibility of delay or loss of baggage, there are also complex rules governing the dimensions and contents of the luggage. another common problem is that airlines allow free baggage of certain dimensions, but at the airport the rules are different, and passengers are forced to check in their baggage, often with surcharges. but is that a reason for the european union to start regulating this area and forcing carriers to harmonize the rules? we have to realize that even in air travel, nothing is free. the customer has the option of choosing freely between different carriers. some pay less for their ticket, but they have to pay more attention to business conditions because the low-cost carrier offers them a smaller range of services in exchange for a discount. in principle, therefore, this is a commercial relationship between the carrier and the passenger in which the european union should intervene as little as possible. as we know, any new regulation brings costs to businesses and, moreover, is reflected in the price to the consumer, which we should reject unequivocally.
madam president, there has been a series of new restrictive measures recently introduced by certain airlines, which are making life more difficult for air passengers. the new rules include both the restrictions on which baggage can and cannot be carried in the cabin of an aircraft, as mentioned above, and new rules on the dimensions of hand baggage. unfortunately, passengers often learn about these rules only when they board the plane, when they have no choice but to pay a fee to be allowed on board with their luggage. rather, such measures often give the impression that they are just one more example of the various hidden payments that lurk behind passengers' backs under various pretexts. i therefore ask the commission to also focus on the price transparency of air carriers in preparing the expected revision of the passenger rights regulation and not to give carriers the opportunity to introduce more and more over-payment standards.
mr president, i think we can say quite openly that the pace of negotiations with mercosur is very slow and that the results achieved are very weak. it is true that the internal situation of mercosur does not allow us to have high expectations, but we must try. the european parliament should therefore support an ambitious free trade agreement. in the short term, it must also focus on rejecting protectionist measures. argentina and brazil, in particular, are taking steps in the opposite direction of what is desirable in the automobile, wine and telecommunications sectors. so we need to work more closely together and look for allies in the wto to combat these negative signals. the specific topic is then the involvement of venezuela. the new membership of this state will certainly be a complicating factor, however, it can be expected that when it joins, it will accept the agreed terms. it is necessary to recognise that european industry also has interests in venezuela, so it is necessary to adapt the negotiations to these economic interests as well.
in the light of the recent events, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. this is in line with the defence of human rights and it is very helpful in this case that it is not just political rights but working conditions that are at issue. the fact that many european companies are using cheap labor and slave labor conditions not only in bangladesh is despicable. these companies should not only come with an apology, but also with appropriate financial compensation for the victims. the european commission should also provide information on the correction of the situation through its external action service and also put pressure on government structures, but also on private organisations. i do not mean an embargo, but effective help through experts and the transmission of best practice. the bilbao-based agency for occupational health and safety can also provide much valuable advice.
mr. chairman, small businesses are the embodiment of a free society, they are the tools by which an individual can shape his leadership and talent for the benefit of himself and the nation. the freer society, the more smes there are, and the more smes there are, the freer and more entrepreneurial that society will be. these are the words of margaret thatcher, who, more than anyone else, recognised the key role of smes and the need to simplify the regulatory, administrative and financial environment in which they operate. however, smes do not operate in a virtual environment separate from large, global companies moving around the world. they are part of an economic ecosystem in which small, medium and large companies play an important role. mrs thatcher herself, in fact, liked to use the example of a small middlesbrough company set up with the support of a giant british steel company as a model of economic symbiosis. i would like to call on the commission and other european players not to exclude large companies from access to capital, whether through cohesion policy or other forms of regional aid.
the common fisheries policy (cfp) has basically failed. in the current situation, it is politically impossible to find a compromise between sustainable fishing and improving the economic situation of the fisheries undertakings. we're still debating how much to cut the profits of these companies. if the massive fishing continues unchanged, the question of how to restore commercial fishing will be a matter of years. we must act now! the new regulation is therefore intended to create an ambitious basis for the modification of the cfp. the adoption of a maximum sustainable yield, an obligation to land all catches, a system of individual and collective fishing concessions and a fisheries partnership regulation with third countries, which would oblige third countries to follow the same approach as eu countries, is a priority. the obligation to land all catches and the consequent prohibition of discards is one of the basic conditions for the recovery of the stocks caught to take place. it is also essential that member states participate directly in the future cfp and seek to ensure its compliance. without this cooperation, eu fisheries policy can never be fruitful. i am confident that the report on the new common fisheries policy will be adopted, and will bring a shift in the commitment to fisheries conservation that we have for future generations.
in writing. for the czech republic, as a landlocked country with a developed and traditional productive fisheries, the issue of freshwater aquaculture is of course an important point in the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). but we realise that there is more to the comprehensive reform of the cfp. the reform of the common fisheries policy is a unique opportunity to reverse the current situation, which inevitably leads to the collapse of the entire fisheries sector and to serious damage to the marine environment with irreversible consequences. the balance of the world's oceans is being upset by overfishing. simply put, we're catching more fish than their natural reproductive capacity. not only are the remaining and declining species of fish and other marine life at risk, but first and foremost are entire marine ecosystems and, as a result, fishermen and all those who depend on fishing. a larger fish population means logically higher yields. it also means bigger fish, because the current unprecedented pressure on fish stocks favours those fish that are smaller and more easily escape the fishing nets. but the cfp has many other important objectives. these include ending discards, removing shark fins, or regulating fisheries in protected areas. for the first time in history, the european parliament has the power to influence the future shape of the cfp and the unique chance to avert the crisis of the world's oceans and improve the conditions of europe's fishermen.
in writing. − unlike my colleagues, i do not think that the outermost regions need special treatment. for example, if a wine grower from the azores enjoys more favourable conditions than a czech grower, this is not correct in the light of equal conditions for the application of the products in the common market. that's why i didn't support this report.
mr president, after considering all the pros and cons, i voted in favour of this report on improving access to finance for smes, albeit with reservations on specific points. there is no doubt that employment depends on the success of business activities, which require, among other things, foreign capital or credit financing to grow. but we must also remember that it is important for every business not to be burdened by unnecessary red tape and constrained by excessive regulation. the report notes that in recent years, considerable efforts have been made within the european union to reduce administrative burdens. but if we asked the business people, i think their answer would be less clear. i am very pleased that the report mentions women's business. indeed, statistics clearly show that women entrepreneurs have less access to credit, especially if they have a maintenance obligation towards their minor children.
in writing. - smes are the backbone of the economy. they deserve specific support in times of crisis, which is why i supported this report.
rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs. - mr president, yes, we all wish that today, in the face of the ongoing crisis of confidence in the euro area, there is a solution that would start or restore economic growth, bring new jobs, higher productivity and greater social inclusion. the governments of the individual member states are well aware of the need to combat structural unemployment, prepare pension reforms, invest in the quality of the workforce, improve the performance of education systems, and combat poverty and social discrimination. the proposed mechanism, which occupies the member countries with various domestic tasks each year and is based on the study, control and verification of the so-called national reform plans and, consequently, the structure of national budgets, remains unacceptable to the ecr. because, first of all, it's a mechanism that is inefficient, that has not brought and will never bring any fruit. decisions on employment policy, as well as on social policy, should be left to national governments, with full respect for the specific structures and cycles of individual economies and the performance of each individual country. only where the economy is booming can social spending be increased. the logic of 'must-do' ultimatums and the creation of so-called european social rights is false, dangerous and ineffective. secondly, such a proposal is undemocratic. national reform plans are really nothing more than national budgets, the way taxpayers' money is allocated each year. these are national political decisions and it is unacceptable that they should be dictated from brussels or strasbourg.
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. - mr president, the benefits of the internal market are undeniable. it is far from being limited to purely economic aspects. a functioning internal market also has a positive impact on regional development. if we want our towns, cities and regions to flourish, we cannot afford to block the adoption and implementation of key acts aimed at removing obstacles to the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. this does not mean that the union should have the ambition to intervene in everything and create unrealistic expectations to solve everything. it should instead focus on fully implementing the legislation already in place, implementing realistic and effective measures. at national level, it is desirable not to relax the implementation of the major structural reforms that individual states are pursuing, inter alia, in their national reform programmes.
madam president, i have made a very important point this afternoon, as i listen to the debate, which is called 'what is feasible'? you know, we can vote in this room that the sun won't even come up tomorrow morning, but it will come up anyway. so the question of what's feasible is a valid one. i refer to one comment made by commissioner barnier, who said that the single market is too fragmented. i might not use the word fragmented, but i would say it's too diverse, economically diverse, socially diverse, has a history of diversity. why am i talking about this? prioritizing national budgets is something that is not feasible from my point of view. every national parliament is engaged in a serious political battle in a parliamentary democracy over what is its priority and what is not its priority. this attempt fails, another state cannot dictate to another what its state budget should look like.
in writing. the need to unlock the huge potential of the internal market for growth and jobs is a recurring theme in our debates. but the question is to what extent we are credible in the practical steps towards a genuine european single internal market. the figures on the transposition of adopted legislative measures into national legislation are rather embarrassing. i therefore fully support the inclusion of the internal market in the european semester, as proposed by mr schwab in his report. i think it is very important to overcome the differences in perception of what is happening at eu and member state level. improving awareness, not only among citizens themselves - we often talk about this here - but also, undoubtedly, by strengthening cooperation with national parliaments, is essential. lack of information is often a source of mistrust and scepticism, which unnecessarily hinders the development of the internal market. i regard the parliamentary week for the european semester, which took place last week in brussels, as a step in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to touch on one specific problem. the czech environmental inspectorate published some alarming information last year. the trafficking gangs in my country hire czech citizens to go to an african country, legally catch rhinos, and the so-called hunter then, of course, takes the trophy to the czech republic, and when he returns, the trophy goes to the traffickers, and they take care of the rest. such gangs operate not only in my country but also in other european countries. they abuse the possibility of importing the non-living parts of animals listed in annexes i and ii to cites in the form of souvenirs or hunting trophies. all that is needed is an export licence from the country of origin and the trophy can be imported into the european union without any problems. in this regard, it is good to remember that a kilogram of rhino horn is worth a kilogram of gold on the black market. the case described clearly shows that groups focused on illegal trade are always trying to be one step ahead of international agreements, our efforts and the national legislation of our countries. the commission has therefore taken a number of measures to combat illegal trophy hunting, which may be the result of an attempt to enrich oneself illegally. i appreciate the approach of the european commission, which has made available eur 1.7 million for interpol to combat illegal trade in protected species and another eur 2 million to extend the programme that specifically combats the illegal trade in ivory and rhino horn. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues on the committee on the environment for the excellent work they have done and for the positive response they have given to my proposal, which calls on the parties to the convention to limit the annual national quotas for the export of trophies of endangered species.
mr president, it is good that we are already starting to prepare the budget for next year. the report we have before us is going in the right direction. it takes the difficult economic situation as its starting point and stresses the need to save. this course must be continued, because a crisis is always an opportunity to reflect on how we spend public money and an opportunity to change the established order. i would remind you again that one seat for the european parliament would save us 200 million euros a year. but the main question is whether the eu will even have a budget for 2014, and i mean a proper budget. as we know, this budget is dependent on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, and i would like to make a strong plea for a compromise to avoid the budgetary provisional. that is why i do not like the fact that some of my colleagues here today have already threatened the council with rejecting an agreement which the member states themselves have agreed. this agreement is not even in the world yet and no one knows its contents and yet it is already threatened here. that doesn't sound like good politics to me. it is in the eu's interest to find an agreement and to have a reasonable, timely and proper budget.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, in the last term i was rapporteur for the evaluation report on compliance with occupational health and safety. for this reason too, i very much appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur, mr raffaele baldassarre. i agree that the fundamental reasons for the current crisis have been errors in reducing transparency and accountability and in favoring short-term financial and private interests. in this context, corporate responsibility for social responsibility, environmental protection and respect for human rights, including financial security, is of paramount importance. the european social model must be based on effectively preventing tax evasion, ensuring a fair balance in protecting investors and respecting social and health standards. the increase in pressure to compensate for negative externalities is also a significant factor. we have recently discussed a resolution on textile factory fires in bangladesh. the proposal under discussion also emphasises the need to respect safety and social rights in third countries where european union companies operate. i consider the material presented to be a significant step in the right direction and it is necessary to ensure that it is implemented consistently by all actors, including the european commission.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013 at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. corporate social responsibility is a term that is somewhat difficult to grasp. almost everyone feels that businesses should be environmentally conscious, reduce energy and material consumption, and create a decent work environment for workers while acting responsibly in the place where they operate. a socially responsible company is one that does not evade tax obligations and does not use tax havens. on the other hand, disproportionate bonuses, bonuses, executive pay and, of course, the extremely high differential between executive and non-executive pay should not exist in a socially responsible company. the supply chain and exhaust gas, liquid and waste should also be examined in the social responsibility assessment. it is important that public administration should help enterprises by simplifying the administrative burden on the one hand and by promoting through public authorities the dissemination of awareness of csr, including the exchange of experience. i would also venture to say that an ambitious training strategy for existing and new employees is part of corporate social responsibility. i welcome the commission's efforts to improve existing instruments through a code of practice in this area. in this context, it is important to support the enterprise 2020 initiative of the csr europe network. the european certification scheme for enterprises and partnerships with the possibility of introducing a european social label are also a step in the right direction.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sound pressure level of motor vehicles (com ((2011) 0856 c7-0487/2011 2011/0409co ((d)) (a7-0435/2012).
the rapporteur, mr president, this report aims to increase the protection of the health of citizens against the harmful effects of noise from motor vehicles. the negative effects of chronic noise exposure are scientifically well established, and health protection is therefore essential in this area. the commission proposal has basically focused only on the noise generated by the engines of cars and lorries, which i think is a little detrimental to the whole report from the outset. my idea has always been a little more complex and i believe that in the future this legislation should also map the impact of road surfaces, tyre quality, aerodynamic noise and traffic management. three critical points emerged during the work on this legislation: the obligation to label, the obligation to provide noise values by the manufacturer, the avas system, which will generate sound in virtually silent electric and hybrid vehicles and increase pedestrian safety, and annex iii, the table of specific values for each category of motor vehicle. while the first two problem areas mentioned above were agreed by the political parties in the envi committee, annex iii divided our committee. in the resulting vote, the proposal of the s&d shadow rapporteur, judith merkies, won by a very narrow margin. ladies and gentlemen, i am not happy that, in addition to the above, i must also mention the negative and slanderous campaign which is closely linked to the committee's consideration of this report and which affects me personally very seriously. it was started on purpose by a certain dutch organization and unfortunately it's supported by some of my colleagues. the whole case was trying to create the impression that i was some sort of undercover agent for the auto industry working on his payroll. the co-authors of this smear campaign did not hesitate to go so far as to create a fake website to prove my financial connection to one of the car companies. although my proposed compromise convincingly refuted these false arguments, the media bubble had already been released into the world. she's lived her life and as a result, she's delayed the committee's consideration of this entire report by several weeks. i would like to thank the chairman of the envi committee, mr matthias groot, who, after the investigation, made a clear statement that ruled out any involvement of mine. in conclusion, let me stress that the content of annex iii which i have proposed and which i have already mentioned is a genuine compromise which significantly reduces the noise emitted by motor vehicles and at the same time enables the automotive industry to cope with this technically demanding task. we must remember that in this report we are not only voting on the impact of noise on human health, but also on the impact of our decisions on the almost 15 000 000 jobs in europe that are directly or indirectly affected by the automotive industry. if we want to go to the council with a proposal that will be viable, please vote for amendment 61.
the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their speeches, the debate did not surprise me, it was basically a copy of what i experienced during the discussion of the same subject in committee. i'm not going to respond to individual speakers. i would like to say that this whole legislation suffers greatly from the fact that acoustics and noise is a very technical subject. now, there were a few things said in this last talk that would, from a technical standpoint, be a little bit of a smile from any physicist, but i'm not going to comment on them. it's very difficult for politicians to work with numbers when we don't know what a reduction of 3 decibels means, when it seems to us that an extra decibel is not worth the effort. i would just like to respond to the repeated statements from the opposite end of the spectrum that the right wing is threatened with the destruction of the automotive industry in connection with the adoption of this report. it's not heard here, it's not used by anyone on the right of the political spectrum, but it's been brought up consistently on the other side of the political spectrum. let's be honest with each other, please, colleagues. i would like to conclude by saying that it is often said that ambitious legislation can help create jobs. that's a cliché i've heard in our work on co2 legislation very often. now it's been mentioned by the commissioner. i would very poisonly ask how much of our new automotive legislation has created these jobs. if we look at the statistics of the european automotive industry, we know that unfortunately, these jobs are constantly declining, at least in our europe. that's just for correct information. in closing, i will just say that, of course, noise is bad, and we all agree that we have to do something about it. let us try to ensure that the outcome of this parliament is as close as possible to the council's ideas and very close to the commission's ideas. i'll keep trying to do that.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013 at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
rapporteur. − madam president, before this vote i just want to announce, as rapporteur, that there is no point holding a split vote here because it is just one tab. if we want to avoid messing things up further down the line, i would like to ask anyone wishing to vote against one part to vote against both.
in writing. − if you have the report presented by ulrike rodust proposes changes to eu fisheries policy and aims to: first, end overfishing by 2015 and move towards sustainable fishing practices; second, apply a precautionary approach and ecosystem-based fisheries management; third, benefit those who fish sustainably; and, last, use public resources to tackle the problem rather than encourage overfishing. i believe that the wealth of the oceans must be protected for future generations, and that is why i supported the report.
in writing. − in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, i welcome the presentation of the whole package of legislative documents, including the proposal for a regulation of the ep and the council on the common fisheries policy. it is crucial for our country and other inland countries, for whom aquaculture plays a very important role, that this fisheries sector, which has great prospects for the future, be given greater visibility and adequate funding. that is why i supported this report.
madam chair, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. in the past year alone, there have been three shocking cases that have rocked society, even leading to the deaths of young women. in pakistan, a 15-year-old girl was shot in the head for just wanting to get an education. in ireland, in our democratic europe, as we all think, a young woman died of the consequences of pregnancy just because doctors refused to abort her. in india, a young girl was brutally raped on a bus by six men, and she died. unfortunately, these cases are not isolated, and domestic violence, where the perpetrators are family members, is also a big problem. we must remember that it is all a question of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. women and girls must have the right to choose their own bodies, the right to bodily integrity, the right to their reproductive and sexual health, which includes not only the right to contraception, health care, but also the right to safe abortion. i am therefore very pleased that this parliament has supported all these rights by a large majority.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution to the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women, originally tabled by mrs gustafsson, which calls for progress and action to eliminate and prevent violence against women and girls. recent events in india have raised a sensitive question. the fact that domestic violence is still a european problem is shown by the fact that seven women die every day in europe as a result of domestic violence.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by mr david casa, on behalf of the economic and monetary committee, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the mechanism for rapid reaction against vat fraud (com (2012) 0428 c7-0260/2012 2012/0205 cns)) (a7-0014/2013).
mr president, vat fraud is costing national budgets and the eu budget billions of euros. the current vat legislation does not allow member states to react quickly to fraud detections and to introduce preventive measures. vat fraud is intermingling across member states and therefore more intensive and faster cooperation between them is needed. i am convinced that the rapid exchange of information and direct contacts between the tax authorities of the member states will contribute to a more effective fight against fraud. however, i would also like to stress that in the area of value added tax, the administrative burden on european businesses must be reduced within the european union and legislation simplified, which, in its complexity, can lead not only to fraud but also to errors and uncertainties, especially when goods are sold and services provided across borders in another member state.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by mario mauro, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 2011 annual report of the european investment bank (2012/2286(ini)) (a7-0016/2013).
mr president, the european investment bank undoubtedly plays an important role for many smes, whose main problem is that they have a reduced access to credit financing as a result of the financial and debt crisis. the european investment bank was the subject of a very interesting debate in the committee on budgetary control last year. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to achieve its objective of maintaining a viable and stable banking sector. it is clear that we must support the european investment bank to maintain its current rating and thus investor confidence. the report under discussion also refers to the so-called prudential banking supervision of the european investment bank. however, it should be borne in mind that the function and position of this bank is such that it is difficult to accept that this supervision be regulatory by other central authorities of the european union, in particular the european central bank. it is much more acceptable in my view for this supervision to be carried out by an independent body or an independent auditor.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the european investment bank continues to focus on three main areas. implementation of the 2020 strategy, climate change and the external policy of the european union. the activities of the european investment bank continued in 2011 in the context of an economic crisis characterised by the absence of any real economic recovery, the crisis in the financial sector and rising unemployment, particularly among young people. in this context, the eur 61 billion in credit operations are crucial for the european union. at the same time, however, i would like to note that the establishment of an appropriate regulatory institutional framework to monitor the activities of the european investment bank has not yet been finalised. this is very relevant today in the context of building a banking union. i share the rapporteur's regret that the commission has not proposed any action in this respect, despite parliament's request for this in 2007.
mr president, i would like to thank mr mauro for his excellent report and i am very pleased that mr werner hoyer is present for today's debate on this report. i am glad that the european investment bank reacted very positively to the banking crisis, streamlining all the procedures, but on the other hand it meant a reduction in lending. that is why i think that even the €70 billion planned for 2012 is not quite enough, and if we want jobs, growth and innovation, then we must increase this amount and focus mainly on smes. so we need to simplify and make all these procedures clearer and because we are a bank or the european investment bank is a bank of all 27 countries , we need to focus on countries where access to this money, to loans, is the most problematic.
in writing. 2014 will be a pivotal year for the eu institutions, including the ep. this is for at least two reasons: firstly, it will be the first year of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and secondly, there will be elections to the ep (so many of us will defend our positions). it is understandable that at a time of high public debt in the eu and the associated consolidation of national budgets, the ep, like the other eu institutions, should continue to respect budgetary responsibility and expenditure efficiency. the ep has been successful in this respect so far, with savings from structural reforms amounting to €29 million in recent years (and another €10 million from building funding), including cost increases due to the 18 new meps from croatia. it is important that the 2014 outlook is based on a thorough analysis of the 2012 and 2013 budgets, as this will avoid many problems. as a member of the committee on budgets, i welcome the strengthening of cooperation between the committee on budgets and the bureau during the annual budgetary process. but i would also like to warn against massive cuts in the eu budget. i definitely prefer an individual approach after evaluating the appropriate analysis. the report that has been tabled sums up this matter very well, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − as vice-president of the european parliament with joint responsibility for building policy, i welcomed the rapporteur's considered approach and her call for the european parliament not to buy any more new buildings during this programming period. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. - i agree with the report that transparency needs to be promoted. however, i fundamentally disagree with the idea that public procurement should take more account of social and environmental considerations. the price must always be the decisive criterion for awarding a public contract, as a proper economic operator, as the state should be. any attempt to undermine this elementary principle of sound administration is contrary to the just declared principle of transparency. i consider the idea of tax incentives to promote corporate social responsibility to be completely unsystematic. i find it almost scandalous to say that tax optimisation through the use of tax havens is contrary to socially responsible behaviour. the commission also found that the fact that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim that the goc had not provided any evidence to support its claim. europe must match its competitiveness on the global market by improving the quality of its goods, services and competitive prices, not by creating pseudo-socialist instruments and distorting the market. it is for these reasons that i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. i supported the report by david cassidy on the amendment of the directive on the common system of vat and on the mechanism for rapid reaction against vat fraud. the main idea is to provide eu member states with a mechanism to allow for a faster and more effective response to large-scale and sudden fraud in this area. the current vat legislation does not allow this and i therefore very much welcome the adoption of the amendment to this directive. vat fraud costs the union budget and the budgets of the member states several billion euros per year. the fight against tax evasion will therefore remain a key objective in the future. the rapid reaction mechanism would no longer require member states to wait for the outcome of a lengthy formal process between the european commission and the council, but would allow them to use, within a month, a 'transfer mechanism' under which the recipient of goods or services is liable for payment of vat, rather than the supplier.
in writing. − in the current global economic crisis, it is essential to strengthen economic coordination and also governance at eu level. the european single market is seen as a potential driver for the recovery of growth and job creation. however, the single market remains crippled by non-compliance and its potential is still not being fully exploited. the commission has presented a communication on better governance of the single market which can help to address the situation. i personally believe that the correction is necessary in particular in the coordination and impact of the new instruments. we often decide on the alleged benefits to the single market, but rarely do we subsequently consider whether the step was effective and produced the desired result. a more intensive exchange of experience and practices between officials of the member states and of the union in all areas would also be beneficial. i agree with the need to set priorities in the management of the single market. we should focus our attention in particular on the economic significance, growth potential and implications for employment. the report as a whole is a contribution to the single market policy, extends and adapts the commission's communication in an appropriate way, and i shall therefore vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − this report contains a number of recommendations which correspond to the long-standing demands of our business organisations. this includes the requirement to involve stakeholders in the transposition of eu acts. the proposed establishment of a central government website, where the transposition of individual eu acts would be available in real time, would provide businesses with better visibility and more time to prepare for the adoption of new rules. that is why i supported this report.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i consider that a debate on condemning attacks on medical workers, not only in pakistan, is a matter of the utmost urgency. let me first express my condolences to the loved ones and the bereaved. i'm a doctor, so i know how hard it is to save a life. i bow deeply before my colleagues who, in wartime conditions, risk their lives to save others. i had the opportunity to briefly participate in the work of a field hospital in basra, iraq, where my colleagues and i came under direct fire. i condemn war and aggression. that's why i consider attacks on medical and humanitarian workers to be one of the worst crimes, by anyone. the subsequent accusations of espionage against these workers are just a shameful cover for crimes against humanity. i call on the commission to use all available mechanisms, not just diplomatic ones, to protect health and humanitarian workers wherever they operate.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for her report on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the european union. in my view, it highlighted key areas where we still need to combat gender stereotypes in the european union. i particularly agree that we need to focus on media and advertising. we encounter gender stereotypes that can affect children in early childhood and adolescents. it is important to promote images of women that respect their dignity, but at the same time, freedom of expression must be preserved. i would like to point out one more thing, there is a huge difference between the member states of the european union in terms of the preservation or progress of gender stereotypes. i think that is a problem which we in the european parliament should be addressing more closely, namely the comparison of progress between member states. there is a very clear difference between the member states, for example in central europe, where there are bans on contraception and so on, versus other member states that have made progress on this issue and have made progress so much that they have paternity leave, and it's just on a completely different, so-called gender basis.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, i would like to recall some of the points made in the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament. the planned energy infrastructure projects shall be consistent with the long-term climate and energy objectives of the european union and with the implementation of those objectives in the national energy policies of the member states. the planning of energy infrastructure projects should also comply with the precautionary principle. environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the energy infrastructure planning context and preference should be given to projects that do not entail unnecessary environmental costs. the construction, operation and decommissioning of energy infrastructure involves environmental protection costs in addition to investment and operating costs. these costs should also be taken into account in the life-cycle cost approach cost-benefit analysis. the assessment of major risks requires a thorough assessment of the environmental impact of energy infrastructure projects, based on a case-by-case assessment and taking into account local and regional environmental conditions. i hope that the proposal will also make it possible to achieve these objectives.
for the ecr group. mr president, i am pleased that the inspections of the operation of nuclear power plants were carried out at such a high level and also at such a strict level as you said. the results of the audit show the actual state of these facilities in europe. after the fukushima nuclear accident, it is important that people in europe know that nuclear energy meets safety standards and that the plants will continue to be very tightly controlled. i believe this report will also help to calm the often exaggerated emotions. however, there are some proposals in the report which do not seem to me to be reasonable. i personally do not share the view that there is a need to transfer control of nuclear programmes to the eu level. this would mean the creation of a new supervisory unit, i.e. additional authorities. moreover, the tests showed a high level of professionalism and independence of the national supervisors. as you have explained, i consider the very good cooperation between them and the sharing of their experience to be a great result of these checks.
mr president, i need not remind anyone that nuclear energy is a standard part of the energy mix of the member states, the composition of which is decided by the individual states themselves. it is the member states and their national regulators who are fully responsible for the safety of nuclear power plants. i would like to remind you that the stress tests of nuclear power plants that we are talking about here today were a post-fukushima measure aimed at reassessing the robustness and readiness of nuclear power plants in extreme situations and they have worked very well. these stress tests are in no way related to the normal nuclear safety assessment that is carried out as standard. the proposed resolution therefore makes a completely wrong attempt to make stress tests a common practice and, under the guise of stress tests, incorrectly proposes the creation of a regulatory body in the field of nuclear safety at european level. i therefore urge you to stop trying to regulate everything that works from brussels and to reconsider all measures that are certainly well-intentioned.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, it has been an honour to work with him, and all those who have contributed to the compromise reached during the trilogue. the report under discussion has not only an environmental aspect but also a social one. accounting for the stock of carbon bound in biomass will support forestry, a sector that is traditional in many areas, although somewhat neglected in recent times. the emphasis on the use of more wood products will bring about a recovery in the woodworking industry, which will undoubtedly have a positive impact on job creation. however, i am also concerned that the requirement to increase the amount of carbon bound in forests will have a negative impact on the quality of the vegetation and on forest management in general. in particular, it could slow down the transition from previously relatively common monocultures to the natural species composition of our forests, which is unavoidable without mining. but overall, the compromise reached is acceptable and i support it.
madam president, every consumer should have access to simple, cheap and quick dispute resolution when buying goods or services, which are the main advantages of the adr mechanism. the credibility of these systems is dependent on ensuring their impartiality and transparency. consumer confidence is not only based on the quality of products and services, but also on the belief that there will be clear rules, effective and quick mechanisms to provide fair remedies in the event of problems. i believe that the conditions of professionalism, impartiality and independence that the directive introduces will help to increase the confidence of the consumer public in the adr system. i consider it necessary that both documents should also be properly transposed by those states, such as the czech republic, where alternative dispute resolution systems have not yet been functioning, partly because of the lack of comprehensive legislation. i hope they will take the opportunity to adopt even stricter rules and thus ensure a higher level of protection for their consumers. and finally, a special thanks to louisa grech and rosa grafin von thun und hohenstein for a really excellent job.
in writing. − i regard the new regulation as a positive initiative that will accelerate the creation of the internal energy market and the achievement of the eu's energy policy objectives. by unlocking a significant volume of investment, it can help to revive economic growth and job creation in the eu. the proposal contains a plan for the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks. in the gas sector, i believe that the right way forward is to diversify energy sources and supply routes by storing liquefied natural gas (lng) and building a two-way pipeline. i also support the supply of crude oil to landlocked countries and the construction of a carbon capture and storage pipeline linking production and storage facilities. i consider it useful to define nine priority geographical corridors and three thematic priority areas and to establish in each member state a single body to act as a single point of contact for the entire agenda, to oversee the authorisation procedures for projects of common interest and to try to speed up their progress.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the draft regulation covers complaints lodged not only by consumers but also by traders. while consumers are likely to be the most likely to complain, it is important that this tool is also available to traders, for example in the event of a consumer not paying or refusing to take delivery of goods. this is all the more important given that the adr system provided for in the draft directive is voluntary and it is therefore necessary that legislation should encourage traders to use it. however, i am disappointed that the regulation only covers disputes arising in connection with the cross-border online sale of goods or the cross-border provision of services where the trader is established in a member state other than that in which the consumer is domiciled. member states should seek more ambitious solutions than those proposed in the draft regulation and propose to extend the scope of the regulation to include domestic online disputes, as it is often difficult for consumers to distinguish between cross-border and cross-border purchases of goods and services when carrying out online transactions.
in writing. − i support this report, which creates an environment for online dispute resolution. the proposed environment will take the form of an interactive website that will act as a single point of contact for consumers and traders seeking out-of-court settlement of a dispute arising in connection with a cross-border e-commerce transaction. the whole process will be facilitated by an electronic form in all the official eu languages and the use of this service will be free of charge. in general, consumers today are most concerned about how to resolve potential disputes with a trader who has sold them goods and services remotely. if such a dispute takes place within a member state, consumers are already sufficiently educated in how to resolve their disputes. however, problems persist in the case of cross-border e-commerce. this online dispute resolution environment has the potential to remove consumer fears about buying goods in e-shops across borders and ultimately to boost e-commerce, broaden the supply of goods and services and increase competition in e-shopping.
in writing. where adr entities issue binding decisions, it is essential to ensure the protection of civil, statutory rights. member states shall decide whether to allow adr entities to issue decisions that are binding on one or all of the parties to the dispute. both parties to a dispute have the right to be informed of the binding decision and to decide whether to accept it. moreover, the decision is not binding on the consumer if it was taken before the dispute arose or if the consumer is denied the right to have the dispute resolved by a court. in order to strengthen the rights of citizens in adr procedures, it is ensured that consumers cannot be deprived of the protection afforded to them by the binding provisions of the law of the member state in which the adr entity concerned is established.
in writing. − the introduction of harmful substances dangerous to human health into the human body, especially by direct ingestion, can have very serious health consequences. depending on the concentration of the harmful substances, they either manifest themselves immediately or, unfortunately, only after a longer period of time and at the time when there is a significant accumulation of them in the human body and their harmfulness is manifested. i would like to point out that the most vulnerable group, such as young children, must not be forgotten in the impact assessment. i am glad that the water pollution chapter is receiving such attention, since it is an integral part of our lives. i consider it important to assess water quality and pollutant content in a cumulative way. i supported this report.
in writing. − the current austerity policy is having an adverse impact not only on employment and economic growth. it is also strongly reflected in the public service sector. the cuts in this sector are affecting women, who make up the majority of the workforce. cutbacks in social programs that help single mothers or women caring for children with disabilities, for example, are also having a serious impact. there is a lack of adequate social infrastructure to enable women to better participate in the work process. as a result, women often work only part-time, which reflects in poor income. and they're already, as we know, generally lower than in men. women are therefore at a much higher risk of poverty than men today. moreover, these austerity policies will have long-term effects and will carry women's disadvantages into the years ahead. lower incomes lead to lower pensions, and reforms of pension systems that emphasise the second pillar and favour those with higher incomes and those who have worked longer do not contribute to improving the situation. we face such a high risk of poverty and women's disadvantage, not just now in times of crisis, but in the long run. international women's day is an opportunity to ask these very questions. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. - unlike the author of the report, i do not think that the biggest problem facing europe is the predominance of men in occupations such as firefighting, manufacturing, construction, carpentry, repair and assembly services, and the predominance of women in childcare, namely in maternity care and nursery care. unlike the author of the report, i do not agree with the introduction of courses in primary and secondary schools aimed at encouraging children to choose professions that were previously considered typically male or female. i'm afraid the next step will be to introduce gender quotas for female tractors, miners and perhaps even greco-roman-style wrestlers. i don't think it's healthy for there to be special education programs based on any form of difference, whether it's gender, ethnicity or religion or social status. on the contrary, i consider it dangerous because it can be a seed of hatred, violence, intolerance and tension in human relations and in society as a whole.
in writing. the own-initiative report on the elimination of gender stereotypes contains important aspects. one is to eliminate stereotypes in the educational process. the report calls on the commission and the member states to use the funds to make jobs that are currently considered 'man-made' more attractive to women. the report also calls for gender equality training for teaching staff to eliminate gender stereotypes in schools. the call for member states to nominate one woman and one man as european commissioners is very important, thereby promoting gender balance in the composition of the commission. and i think that's a major step towards increasing the representation of women in decision-making and in office, and a good example for what we can do in the public and perhaps private spheres. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. the effort to eliminate gender stereotypes is a worthwhile initiative in the eu. however, some doubts may arise as to whether this can be achieved only by suppressing their 'speech'. it would be desirable for the eu to take the path of actively promoting equal opportunities for both sexes, so that society itself would then begin to realise the inappropriateness of these stereotypes. the possibility that the elimination of gender stereotypes could be achieved through censorship or indefinitely enforced censorship of the media and other areas is debatable, especially if the scope of the measures is not defined very specifically. i am concerned that the wording could lead to this initiative being misused for entirely different purposes and could become a mere justification for interference with the media, free creation, freedom of speech and free enterprise. i am afraid that there is a de facto suppression of discussion of the problem of gender stereotypes, which would continue to persist latently in society. it's about making a lasting improvement.
in writing. i didn't support the gender stereotype report. despite my conservative views, i am not convinced, as the rapporteur is, that regulation and prohibition will solve the problem of pornography and the participation of women in pornography.
mr president, time is short, but agendas are plentiful. reform of the common agricultural policy is necessary. the commission proposal is only partly on the right track. i think it is right that there should finally be a genuinely uniform policy for the whole of the european union and that the discrimination against the new member states should be brought to an end. although there's still a question mark. the current two-track system with different conditions for the old and new member states is not sustainable in the common market. i also think it is right that the commission wants to abolish quotas for milk or sugar. i support these proposals because they will lead to lower prices for consumers of these commodities and to more production in the european union. but here we have proposals from the commission which are going in the wrong direction. this includes the absurd requirement to leave 7% of agricultural land unused, a requirement which will raise food prices and radically reduce the competitiveness of european agriculture. the requirement to block direct payments, which punishes states that have historically increased the size of their agricultural holdings, including the czech republic, is also pointless. i can't agree with that.
in writing. the cap should be transparent, fair and simple. it is essential that it helps to increase or at least maintain the competitiveness of european farmers with the rest of the world. the new direct payment proposal should remove historical inequalities and ensure a level playing field for farmers across the european union. from the beginning of the cap debate, i have rejected measures that differentiate aid according to artificially chosen conditions. for this reason, i am fundamentally against the proposal to block direct payments. although the possibility of deducting staff costs from the controlled subsidy ceiling reduces the impact of capping on the czech republic, if adopted it would cause a huge increase in administration. the deduction of staff costs can only be verified at the place of the farmer by a proper analysis of the accounts. there will therefore be a large increase in the administration of the paying agencies in the czech republic of the szif fund. how will the increase in tasks be reflected in the budget allocated to those agencies which are fully responsible for the payment of direct payments? this is another point which we should give due consideration to together with the council and take into account in our decision-making. support for capping would only be appropriate as a voluntary measure for member states.
in writing. european agriculture faces many challenges and reform of the common agricultural policy is not only a unique opportunity to tackle these problems, but also the only chance to reverse the negative environmental impact of agriculture. the commission proposal proposes that the best way to tackle the problems of agriculture is to strengthen the ecological stability of the landscape at the level of each farm. the main pillar of the reform was therefore the greening of direct payments to farmers. it is a payment linked to the observance of certain agricultural practices that have a positive impact on the climate and the environment. member states will use 30% of the national financial envelope to finance this measure and the commission has clearly stated that this minimum amount is mandatory. in other words, every farmer will be obliged to follow rules that lead to the improvement of the environment and the promotion of public goods and values when drawing public money. in addition to the objective indicators of soil erosion, loss of biodiversity and increasing pollution, it is important to bear in mind that according to a eurobarometer survey, 80% of eu citizens would make the receipt of cap subsidies conditional on better environmental protection and landscape management. moreover, it is also an economic measure, since the preservation of the good ecological condition of the landscape is a prerequisite for long-term and sustainable management. without mandatory greening, the reform is meaningless.
mr president, i would like to make it clear that i support the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020 reached by the council at the level of heads of government and member states' presidents in february this year. it is sad that the european parliament, or rather the leaders of the largest political groups, do not want to support this agreement. yes, we have a say in this and without the consent of this parliament the agreement cannot enter into force. but we also have a responsibility to ensure that the european union functions properly under clear rules and with a proper and timely budget. if this parliament rejects the council's agreement, we will enter a time-slip that will lead to the budgetary provision in 2014 and possibly in 2015. we must not forget that the new budgetary period is nine and a half months away and we still have no agreement on its budgetary and legal parameters. how long do we have to wait for this deal? without the approval of the mff, member states cannot launch new operational programmes, leaving the market with a shortfall of public investment of tens of billions of euros in 2014. i don't want this.
mr president, the 2012 budget provided for payments at an insufficient and unrealistic level. we can't make that mistake again. moreover, the 2014 budget will be the first in the new multiannual financial framework and therefore needs to be given increased attention. it should stimulate economic growth and the european union's competitiveness, which cannot be done effectively by blunt horizontal cuts as proposed by the council. in a situation where unemployment is constantly rising in the european union, reaching 7.2% in the czech republic at the end of last year, and even 22% among young people under 24 years, with the worst situation in the northern bohemia and moravia-silesian region, investing in an active labour market policy, especially with regard to the employment of young people, is the best remedy for the current crisis. unemployment is the greatest social evil affecting all the countries of the european union. austria is probably the best place to do that, they have an effective programme, as we have had the opportunity to hear here. if we don't address this situation together, the consequences will be dire. it is therefore necessary to ensure that investment in education, research and innovation and, at regional level, investment in support of smes, infrastructure, renewable resources and sustainable development are key in the 2014 budget. growth cannot be cut back, which is why i support the report by mrs jensen and the s&d group and call on the council to take account of the european parliament's demands and priorities in the next negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. of course, this is one possibility, but in the current situation, where we do not know everything about the negotiations that are taking place, i think that the s&d proposals that are on the table and that we support and by which we support the european parliament's position are entirely appropriate. that's all i have to say.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts and for the compromise reached. it's really excellent work. however, the legislative framework for the regulation of endocrine disruptors itself will require substantial further work. the effects of endocrine disruptors are not limited in time or place. in addition to the cocktail effect, sequential exposure to these substances also comes into play. many of these substances are poorly or not at all biodegradable and remain in the environment for decades. endocrine disruptors cannot always be given a threshold concentration like conventional toxins. often it only works at one particular concentration, not at lower or higher concentrations. their action is simply described by the curve. it also acts at micro-concentration, for example the effective concentration of ethinyl estradiol is so low that it cannot be monitored realistically at all. one particular endocrine disruptor will affect a man differently, a woman differently, a teenager differently, an adult differently, and a human fetus completely differently. it can only act at one sensitive, sensitive period during ontogenetic development and will have no effect at all before and after this sensitive period. to all those who question or want to further soften this legislation, i would just like to say this: look at the statistics of the increase in disease, the statistics of disorders associated with the action of hormonal disruptors. at this point, it's not about precaution, it's about not closing your eyes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 13 march 2013). (the vote was subsequently postponed to thursday, 14 march 2013.) written statements (rule 149)
the agenda includes a debate on the report by ms nadja hirsch, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the integration of migrants, its impact on the labour market and the external dimension of the coordination of social security systems in the eu (com (2012) 0153 2012/2131 (ini)) (a7-0040/2013).
for the ecr group. mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur. she did a very good job of naming a number of important topics correctly. we agree that we welcome migrants who come to take an active part in creating value, to work. the opportunity to apply must be what attracts migrants to the eu member states, not the generous social benefits. we support all measures that promote the active participation of migrants in the life of the society in the country they have chosen for their next life. but i cannot agree to unify the rules on migration. integration and visa policies must be derived from the specific needs of labour markets that are still very different in the member states and must also be managed and regulated at this level. i cannot, unfortunately, agree with the proposals contained in the report, such as granting general access to the labour market to asylum seekers, calling for the legalisation of illegal immigration or extending the right to vote to immigrants without specifying the length of their stay in the country. nor is the idea of a single european consular department something we can agree with. we support linguistic integration and the costs of this must be borne by both the country of arrival and the immigrant himself. the european union should also not have exclusive competence in the field of external coordination of social systems in relation to third countries. in conclusion, let me say that we should also think about why the member states of the european union are no longer as attractive to migrants as they used to be.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march 2013. (the vote was subsequently postponed to thursday, 14 march 2013.) written statements (rule 149)
the agenda for the debate includes the debate on the question for oral answer to the commission on the impact of austerity measures on the living conditions of people with disabilities, which pervenche berès considers to be the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000018/2013 b7-0113/2013) (2012/2927(rsp))
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the situation of disabled people is becoming unsustainable in the long term in the light of some of the policies of cuts. there are a number of problem areas. from the loss of personal assistance or benefits, to the difficulty of accessing employment, to the impact of insensitive health care policies. the sad reality is that as we increase participation in health care, it becomes unaffordable for many citizens. one of the most affected groups is the disabled, i.e. people who depend on medical care and usually rely on a disability or old-age pension. adding to this the price increases associated with the increase in value added tax, the threat of deepening social exclusion of people with disabilities becomes very urgent indeed. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether these issues are reflected in the negotiations on the european semester and whether the commission is discussing with the states, for example, the accessibility of health and social care for people with disabilities.
mr president, the european parliament often complains that it has little authority, that it is not popular, that nobody takes it seriously, that few people attend the european elections. but how can it be otherwise, how can it be otherwise, when the european parliament behaves as it does? we have here an agreement on a multiannual financial framework, which has been achieved at the cost of large concessions by the governments of the member states. the first thing we hear from the european parliament is that they don't approve of the deal. the leaders of the four most powerful factions will stand up and say they reject the deal. the president of the european parliament will stand up and say he disagrees with the agreement. is that constructive? is this supposed to give the european parliament some popularity and some authority? how do you explain that to the voters? i don't think anyone's going to understand this. and if the european parliament rejects the deal, it will be doing the stupidest thing in its history. so that we don't just weep over our own problems and also look a little bit outside, a little bit into the world, let me touch on a few words from yesterday's speech by the president of israel here in this room. what did he say? he called iran the greatest threat to security and stability in the region and called on the european union to finally put hezbollah on the list of terrorist organisations. i think it's important that we pay attention to that, that we don't underestimate that dimension as well. i understand that solving our own problems, the economic crisis and institutional issues sometimes seems like the alpha and omega of everything we do here. but if the european union and all of us have a common interest, it is the interest in ensuring external security and stability, and that is why we should be concerned with other issues than the endless debate on the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. last year, the european parliament debated and approved by a large majority the multiannual financial framework's thesis on promoting economic growth, investment and employment. however, the council has negotiated a compromise which differs significantly from these theses. i understand that each representative in the council defended the interests of his country, that is his role, but the european dimension seems to have disappeared. this is the role of the european parliament, where meps represent the rights of european citizens. therefore, today's resolution proposes to reject the council's findings and to begin negotiations on a mutually acceptable compromise.
in writing. i consider the draft mff 2014-2020 submitted by the council to be unacceptable in this form. this is so for at least two reasons, both factual and procedural. as an mep, i particularly lack the council's greater openness and transparency in drafting the proposal. for example, it is still unclear how the council reached political agreement on both the expenditure and revenue side of the mff. i therefore call for greater transparency on the part of the council, in particular with regard to the provision of relevant information on the impact of decisions taken on the revenue side of the mff on individual member states. the proposal also lacks implementation of the ep's three key priorities for a proper and effective mff set-up: own resources reform, interim review and mff flexibility. i want to stress the importance of flexibility, not only within chapters and financial years, but also between them. this flexibility should include the possibility of making effective use of the available reserves of each chapter in each financial year, as well as the automatic transfer of the available reserves from other financial years. the council's proposal lacks these elements and would have at least two negative consequences: a dysfunctional eu budget and, at the same time, a weakened position for the ep in the future. neither is strategically viable. that's why i'm in favor of further negotiations that could open the way to an agreement.
mr president, a few weeks ago we marked the second anniversary of the egyptian revolution. in that revolution, the egyptian people and above all the young people demanded more freedoms and, of course, they wanted a better economic life. two years later there is widespread frustration and disappointment that these goals were not achieved. egyptian society is being more and more polarised; there is no dialogue among the major political forces; there is increasing violence. we mentioned the economic situation. egypt is running out of foreign currency and we should not forget that egypt is one of the biggest importers in the world of wheat and cereals. in other words, if this situation continues, within a year we will be talking not only about a political crisis but also about a humanitarian crisis in egypt. so what should be done? as in any revolution there are no quick fixes; there is no quick solution. revolution is a process, but we should stick to our values, to our goals to support the forces of human rights, civil rights and dialogue. in this connection, i would urge both the commission and our member states – and also ask colleagues here in the european parliament, because we have contacts with political groups in egypt, so let us use those contacts – to bring the major political forces in egypt to one table. let us start a dialogue, because i am afraid that without a dialogue there will be no political progress, and there will, of course, be no economic progress either in terms of investment or in terms of foreign tourists. as i have already indicated, i am afraid that we could have an economic and political situation within a year which will be much, much worse than the one we have now.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are receiving mixed messages from the ukraine. on the one hand, we have the recent resolution of verkhovna rada on european integration. that is exactly what should happen: the political forces both in government and in opposition should work towards the ukrainian goal of greater rapprochement with the eu through signing the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with the eu. this endeavour is being supported by civil society, as evidenced by statements we have from almost 60 ngos supporting this trend. on the other hand, however, we have messages or pieces of information, which concern, for instance, mr vlasenko. there is a problem here, because for months we have been pointing to cases of selective justice. honestly, we do not want to see members of parliament being stripped of their mandate. they were elected in free and fair elections, so they should do their duty and they should be allowed to do their work. however, the commissioner also mentioned that the work of the verkhovna rada has been blocked. again, we should appeal not only to the government and the ruling party about how to behave, but also to the opposition. neither stripping members of parliament of their mandate nor blocking the parliament is how one should behave in a democracy. the european parliament is trying to help. we have the mission by our former president, mr cox, and president kwaśniewski, and we should fully support it. i would also ask our colleagues, especially from the epp, not to give up on the ukraine, the eastern partnership and georgia simply because the party to which they are linked loses to the opposition. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i underlined this in my speech and i will underline it again: let us work together and show an example that we in this house are able to work together. above all, we should protect the principles of human rights, civil rights, the rule of law and democracy, no matter who is or is not in power in ukraine, georgia or other countries. so let us adopt this policy. let us work together and give an example to the political scene in our eastern neighbourhood countries and also in the southern neighbourhood.
mr president, the new executive council adopted by a large majority a resolution in support of the implementation of the steps agreed to move towards european union. of course, there are attempts to damage good relationships. the supreme administrative court of ukraine, based on the current laws, deprived of the mandate of one government and one opposition mp, which my colleagues did not understand. it is possible that he will do the same in other cases, but some meps are only interested in the dismissal of opposition meps. i may not like the law that was followed, and i may not like the procedure, but it's hard to argue that this is a unilateral action against the opposition. mr vlasenko and mr verevski would probably not have been deprived of their mandate in other countries, i.e. under other legislation. the examples from the federal republic of germany and the czech republic are well known. for good cooperation between the european parliament and the council of ministers, a joint interparliamentary committee should be set up quickly instead of complaints and work should be started constructively. and i wish us all the best of luck with that. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i am familiar with the judgment, but i do not know under what law the judge was previously deprived of his mandate as a judge. because i have to assume that the laws of ukraine are to be respected in ukraine. if they are wrong, we can acknowledge it and we can work with the ukrainians to change it. but to say it's selective, i think that's a little strong.
in writing. a comprehensive eu-ukraine cooperation agreement was finalised last year. on the request of the ukrainian delegation, its ratification was postponed until after the elections to the verkhovna rada. one of the steps taken by both parties since then is the undoubtedly positive outcome of the meeting in february 2013. another such step is the proposal for further visa facilitation. the new executive board adopted by a large majority a resolution in support of the implementation of the agreed steps towards eu approximation. of course, there are attempts to damage good relationships. he has been involved in the illegal 'elections' of the so-called 'government' of the 'donetsk people's republic'. it is possible that he will do the same in other cases, but some meps are only interested in the dismissal of opposition meps. i may not like the law that was followed, and i may not like the procedure, but it's hard to argue that this is a unilateral action against the opposition. vlasenko and verevskiy would probably not have been deprived of their mandate in other countries, i.e. under other legislation. the examples from the gdr and the czech republic, where mps convicted of criminal offences still have a mandate, are well known. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. and i wish us all the best of luck!
mr president, tonight we are talking about strategic partnerships and a strategic dialogue with china. indeed, we are strategic partners, because if we look at the combined number of our populations, together we form almost one third of the global population, and the same applies when we look at our gdp, trade and other forms of influence. china is a member of the security council, and so we can say that there is no problem of global, sometimes regional, importance which can be solved without china, without our cooperation. that is why we are trying to form a strategic dialogue, a strategic partnership, and that is why we have this dialogue on almost 60 diverse or different levels. in some areas the dialogue is successful, and is bringing very positive results both for us and for the chinese. in other areas we have not reached that stage. why is that? because sometimes we do not have only common interests, but sometimes we also have a different sets of values. as has been mentioned, we have multi-party democracy, while the chinese system is based on the role of one political party. in spite of these differences, we should pay attention to big problems, the great problems of this world. tonight, korea has been mentioned. if we look at what was going on in myanmar, we can say that china played a very positive and significant role in opening up that country, so let us take this example and let us try to do the same in korea because, as in the case of burma, it too can be a win-win situation – a win-win situation for the koreans, for the chinese, for the japanese and the entire neighbourhood and, of course, also for us europeans and for global peace and global security. without this strategic dialogue, without this strategic operation, there is no way we can solve security problems, financial problems, economic problems; and within this strategic dialogue let us talk also about human rights, how we see the situation, let us talk about environmental protection and about the many other aspects that we are supposed to talk about and deal with.
mr president, recent statements by europol have fully confirmed the threat to the integrity of european sport in relation to match-fixing and betting fraud. far from being just financial, the damage is moral. the purity of sport as a beneficial social activity, especially for our children and youth, is being questioned. i believe we need a coordinated approach by all actors in the fight against the manipulation of results and organised crime. no country or organisation can face these phenomena on its own. i also consider it necessary to include the issue of protecting the ethical integrity of sport and combating match-fixing in negotiations with third countries and international sports organisations. experience shows that most problematic bets are made in asia with a negative impact on the european union countries. the european parliament is now discussing the commission's communication on online gambling, and i will be advocating for the socialist and democratic group that the issue of the integrity of sport be an integral part of the debate on the nature and impact of online gambling in the european union, and i am confident that we will find broad support for this.
in writing. i do not consider it a sensible move to reject the agreement of the member states on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. without timely adoption of the budgetary rules for the period 2014-2020, the start-up of grant programmes risks being slowed down and the state and individuals may lose significant sums. on the other hand, i don't want to overstate the importance of today's vote. in my view, it is a sign of our discontent that we have not been invited to negotiate by the member states, even though we have the same weight in decision-making as them under the treaty of lisbon. it's a way to show off our muscles and to imply that we don't mind being passed around. i look forward to the next round of negotiations and to meeting some of our demands so that all those involved can keep their heads.
in writing. the vote on this resolution was a clash between the french type of absinthe, based on the addition of the popular french delicacy of aniseed and the use of a large quantity of colours added to liqueurs, and the central european type of absinthe, with a minimum of aniseed and colours and characterised, inter alia, by the addition of pollen. i am pleased that, in accordance with the committee's recommendation, the vote was in favour of the central european absinthe. unlike france, absinthe production in the czech republic has a long and continuous tradition and it is therefore appropriate to require that it be respected and preserved. czech absinthe is also a term in the wider european public, it is an established product that has a sound and reputation beyond our borders, and as an export item it also contributes to the promotion of the czech republic as such in the world. defending czech absinthe is therefore not only in the interests of the brewers still struggling with the consequences of the methanol affair, but undoubtedly also in the national interest.
in writing. i consider the principle of direct payments to large farms to be discriminatory. at the same time, it is an illogical support for uneconomic behaviour in the form of fragmentation of agricultural land. it is also crucial for czech agriculture to ensure that sensitive sectors such as beef production, sugar beet or potato growing can be supported within the national envelope by a higher rate of direct payments. i therefore tabled an amendment, supported by 40 other colleagues, which introduces this possibility, which is already envisaged for the old member states, also for the new member states. with this amendment, i am fighting to preserve the competitiveness of czech agriculture at european level and against unequal conditions and double treatment. i could imagine the end of sugar quotas coming sooner than in 2020, but this is a compromise between the commission's position and that of the member states. since the vast majority of our sugar mills are owned by foreigners, i am concerned about the closure of our sugar mills and the outflow of production abroad in connection with the abolition of sugar quotas. this would mean the final burial of the once glorious tradition of czech confectionery.
in writing. - i did not support the report, not least because it proposes to extend the sugar quotas. however, this system is not fully functional, distorts the competitive environment and should therefore be abolished as soon as possible.
in writing. − i believe that a fully integrated european energy market must be achieved by 2014. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of full application of internal energy market legislation in all member states and the need to ensure that no member state or region remains isolated from the european energy and gas network after 2015. it should be borne in mind that energy infrastructure projects are characterised by high initial investment and a service life of 20 to 60 years. the current market environment is highly unpredictable, which is why investors are hesitant to develop energy infrastructure. new strategies and innovative tools should therefore be encouraged to promote investment in infrastructure that will allow rapid adaptation to a rapidly changing environment.
in writing. - the commission communication on the stress tests carried out following the fukushima accident and their results indicates the commission's desire to have greater control and influence in the area of supervision of safety measures at nuclear power stations. i do not agree with this trend because the safety of nuclear power stations should be a technical issue and not a political one. therefore, i assess as beneficial and fully compliant the work of the ensreg group and the national supervisory authorities, which have subjected 145 reactors in the eu and 20 reactors outside the eu to stress tests. it is appropriate to emphasise that this step is unprecedented on a global scale. i believe that the results of the stress tests will lead to an improvement in the nuclear safety culture in europe, so that it becomes a model to be followed internationally.
in writing. the report does not explain why the statute of a completely new type of european company, the european mutual company, should be created. furthermore, the whole problem is compounded by the fact that this type of company, or at least a type that comes close to it in terms of its parameters, does not even exist in a number of member states. this includes the czech republic, whose legal system does not recognise the form of a mutual society and so the mutual society does not have a sufficient legal tradition in my country. i don't want to question this form of society. it certainly fulfils its purpose in many countries with different legal traditions, especially in those organisations which direct their activities towards meeting the needs of their members, especially in the health services and insurance sectors. i don't even want to debate the effectiveness of the management model that's applied to this type of company. however, what i am fundamentally lacking in the content of the report is a precise description of the benefits and impacts that the creation of a european mutual society statute would have on the eu internal market. that is why i abstained in the vote on this report.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, the resolution before us is one of those warning of the increase in injustice and violence. i too initially welcomed the creation of an international tribunal to investigate crimes committed during the bangladesh war of independence. but from the beginning, i felt that the goal could not be just to punish the losers. the idea of civil war, in which crimes are committed by fighters on one side only, has no basis in human history. the idea that more than 40 years after the war, all the information that could provide a true picture of events can be traced is not realistic. i consider crimes against humanity to be inexcusable, but in this context, the death penalty is unacceptable. the mission of the tribunal is to uncover as much truth as possible about those days, to provide the people affected by the crimes with as much satisfaction as possible. and what are we witnessing? the silent violence! even in the czech republic, we have long been looking for a way for the victors to treat the losers. there is no consensus. but experience and morality tell us that the most sensible course of action was taken in south africa. there, after years of brutal apartheid, under the leadership of archbishop tutu, they found truth, reconciliation, and a future together.
in writing. i do not think that the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is the best possible solution to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. but it's the only thing we have in europe at the moment, and it's practically the backbone of the whole eu climate policy. moreover, following the eu's example, similar schemes are being introduced around the world, for example in australia, china and japan. but the whole system is in deep crisis because of overallocation of allowances, irresponsible policy decisions and the economic situation of the last few years, and the price of carbon is currently very low. compared to 2006-2008, when the price was around eur 30, it fell below eur 3 per tonne of co2 following a vote in the itre committee of the european parliament. the original intention of the eu ets, which was primarily to promote investment in low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency, is failing to be fulfilled. rapid intervention by the commission is essential in the short term and i therefore support the rapporteur groote's proposal. but this intervention should not be seen as a solution to the problem. only in this way will we buy time to guarantee the long-term stability of the eu ets and the necessary structural changes. moreover, if we really want to reduce emissions, then we need to address this through a system of limits, rigorous monitoring of compliance and harsh penalties for their violation.
for the ecr group. mr president, that directive has created considerable legal uncertainty in the insurance markets of the member states in the light of article 5 (2). the first subparagraph provides that gender shall not be a factor in the calculation of the amount of premiums and benefits for insurance and related financial services. however, the second paragraph refers to the authorisation of reasonable differences between insured persons where gender is a determining factor in the risk assessment based on relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data. this in itself leads to uncertainty because it has not been defined what is meant by reasonable differences in the amount of the premium in terms of sex. the legal uncertainty was reinforced by the decision of the european court of justice. it is certainly right to address equal treatment of men and women in access to goods and services. but in this case, the effort goes against the elementary logic of actuarial algorithms. the premium for life insurance, for example, has always been adjusted for women because women are statistically living longer and therefore are less risky for insurance companies in terms of life insurance. gender-based insurance premiums are a little strange. if the intention was to equalise women and men and help them to have more equal access to services, then this particular effort has turned against women themselves. i am talking about life insurance because that is what happened in the czech republic, which i represent here. in other member states, this has been the case for other types of insurance.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 april 2013. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches on important political questions (rule 150).
the point has been closed.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by alf svensson on promoting development through trade (com (2012) 0022 - 2012/2224 (ini)) (a7-0054/2013)
the point has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 april 2013. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the agenda includes a briefing by mr tokia saïfi on trade and investment as growth drivers in developing countries (com (2012) 0022 - 2012/2225 (ini)) (a7-0053/2013)
the point has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 april 2013.
mr. chairman, the debate today is taking place on two levels. the first level would be high expectations, and the second, far less important level in today's debate is the concerns of the proposed regulation. the expectations can be summed up in one sentence: if there were more regulation, then the financial crisis and the economic shocks that followed would have been avoided. i don't share that thesis, but i respect that the dominant belief in this room is to think that it is. on the other hand, i think mrs creighton was very persuasive when she said: 'it is good to keep in mind that we should not get into a situation where the regulation of the financial sector leads to a lack of funds in the real economy or even to conflict with the home and host supervisory authorities. i think those are two big concerns that we should be avoiding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must protect nature and fight the unnecessary killing of whales.
in writing. − it has been shown in the past that bank instability can lead to a deep crisis of the entire european economy, and therefore any measures that lead to an increase in the liquidity and stability of banks are clearly welcome. banks will have to set aside capital buffers, which should reduce risk. i take the reduction in the remuneration of top bank managers as a reinforcement of their responsibility for any problems of the banks they manage.
the newswoman. - madam president, as rapporteur, i have dealt with the management and implementation of the budgets of five institutions and bodies, namely: the european council and the council, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. overall, i consider that these institutions and bodies, with the exception of the council, have cooperated and have tried to answer all the questions that have come from parliament. as regards the evaluation of the implementation of the council budget, it was not possible to reach a different conclusion from that presented by my predecessors in previous years, namely the postponement of the discharge. this deferral was also supported by the committee on budgetary control. i did receive the council's annual report, but the information in it raised a number of other questions, in particular in the area of the purchase of the residence palace building and the details of the agreements with the european external action service. we sent 52 questions to the council, but unfortunately we did not get any answers. even the informal meeting with the irish presidency was fruitless. on the one hand, the european parliament is of the opinion that it has a right to information, since it is the only body to grant discharge. on the other hand, the council representatives claim that the council is not accountable to the european parliament for its budget and therefore is not obliged to answer our questions. however, despite the ambivalent legal interpretation, the committee on budgetary control believes that, in order to monitor the implementation of the budget effectively, we as elected representatives of the european public should have access to information and no european institution or body should deny us this right. the discharge should therefore be given to each institution and body implementing the budget of the european union. i therefore call for the council to be transparent and fully accountable to the resources of the citizens of the european union. this means that it should participate fully and in good faith in the discharge process. if this is not done and we do not have answers to our questions, i do not think we will be able to propose a discharge in a responsible manner in the years to come. as regards the european economic and social committee, i would simply like to point out that we need to improve the quality of the organisation of our staff so that we do not have to pay an employee more than his qualifications require. the european court of auditors also drew attention to this in its annual report. i welcome the reform of the rules on travel allowances for members of the economic and social committee, which is based on reimbursement of actual costs. i welcome the joint administrative agreement between the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. this administrative service-sharing agreement brings considerable savings. however, i would encourage both committees to strengthen cooperation in the management of shared services and also to specify more the overall savings that are generated in all areas of cooperation. as regards the european ombudsman, no significant weaknesses were found. i would simply like to point out that this office spends a lot of effort and money on its promotion, and yet few citizens and institutions turn to it. in the case of the edps, i would simply point out that irregularities in the area of human resources, in particular in the up-to-date nature of the database of staff documents, have been repeatedly found. in spite of all that i have said here, i propose in my reports that the other institutions and bodies be given a discharge. my recommendation to the council is to postpone the discharge for the reasons i've given.
mr president, on the basis of the draft report on the discharge for the european development fund, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr søndergaard, for drawing up this report. i would like to emphasise the european parliament's longstanding request that the european development fund be included in the budget of the european union. however, the next mff also envisages the development fund to be off-budget. although the court of auditors found that the fund's error rate had increased to 5,1% in 2011, i consider it appropriate to grant discharge for 2011 and to approve the accounts. this error is also due to the fact that the european development fund provides assistance to countries such as those in sub-saharan africa, often in an environment of weak state institutions, high corruption probabilities and weak controls on aid recipients. however, i hope that the european commission will take appropriate measures to reduce this high error rate in the years to come. as s&d shadow rapporteur, i support the discharge and i also supported all the amendments which dealt with issues such as illicit capital outflow, the fight against fraud and corruption, the need for an independent national control authority as a condition for granting aid and better coordination of development aid.
the newswoman. - mr president, i would also like to thank the representatives of the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor for attending the relevant meetings of the committee on budgetary control and for answering questions and providing additional information. i have also not made any comments on these institutions in this plenary session and in this debate. working with the council is a different matter altogether. the failure to comply with the 1970s gentlemen's agreement with the european parliament was discussed. today, the european parliament's position is quite different. i believe that the european union is built on agreements between individual member states and agreements between individual institutions and bodies. however, i believe that the european parliament is the body responsible for granting discharge, that is to say, it controls the management of the various institutions and bodies of the european union. i take it very positively that the council is here. i would very much like to ask the council to answer the questions we have put on behalf of the committee on budgetary control. as i mentioned in my first speech, 52 written questions remain unanswered. in the questions, we ask the council to provide a lot of information, especially on agreements, for example on the scope of services concluded with the european external action service, and we call for more efficient management of human resources. i very much hope that in future the council will be willing to engage in dialogue with parliament and to cooperate with us.
mr president, we must prepare and approve the 2014 budget on time. but i'm very worried about whether it will work. next year will be a watershed year for the european union. it brings the current financial framework to an end and should open the way to a new multiannual financial framework. the european elections will also take place next year, after which a new european commission will be set up. we must not forget croatia's membership of the european union for the whole of next year. all this will be reflected in the preparation of the union's 2014 budget and in the chapter on parliament itself that we are discussing. in view of the economic situation, which is unfavourable throughout the eu, we must save. nothing else is possible or defensible to the voters. some items in the expenditure should therefore be reduced or eliminated altogether. i believe that the house of european history is one such item, which is too expensive.
in writing. one of the eu's unfortunate projects at the moment is cooperation with its nearest neighbours. the arab spring has completely changed the political landscape in the southern mediterranean. aggression against the libyan regime has left the country in turmoil and is bearing its fruit in other parts of africa, such as mali. strange is the alliance with islamist forces trying to change the regime in syria. nor are the problematic attitudes of turkey's current leadership, which is gradually moving away from a secular state, in any way promising. the failure of saakashvili's government in georgia, which ended with his defeat in the elections, the occasional thumbs-up in belarus, the breakdown of the anti-communist coalition in moldova and the not very successful efforts to stabilise the situation in the balkans show that the european policy of close neighbourhood is lacking in significant success after the expected accession of croatia to the eu. the occasional teasing of russia can't be such a success. the eu has already taken a number of steps to improve the conditions for issuing visas to ukrainian citizens for travel to the eu. this is a small gesture of goodwill and will hopefully form the subject of the outcome of the next eu-ukraine summit, which should signal the readiness to finally ratify the comprehensive cooperation agreement that has been in the works for months. the cards are dealt. the positions of the parties are more or less clear and this agreement is a necessary small step towards a happy conclusion. the gue/ngl supports it.
mr president, the modernisation of the regional aid rules is unfortunately taking place at a time when the debate on the form of the future cohesion policy package is not yet complete. the close links between the two policies expose us to a number of risks. however, i would like to mention only one risk, namely the increased administrative burden. i am not just talking about the increased red tape that businesses will have to face if they apply for aid. i also have in mind the increased administration of the states and regions, which will have to prove the value of the investment and the purity of the business entity's intentions. in this context, i am also concerned about the application of the recent judgment of the european court of justice in the leipzig-halle airport case. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state, but to the state, and that the measure is imputable to the state. this raises a number of other programming issues, such as deadlines and whether there is a risk of cancellation of the n+3 commitment if the work is too long. it is also important how the ex-ante control of the public aid conditionality provided for in the general regulation will be carried out. in the context of the judgment in question, i am concerned that there will be a significant increase in bureaucracy in this area, for which the member states are not, in my view, prepared.
madam president, cyprus is another euro area country that has gotten into trouble, and it is its own fault. it's certainly not the last country. although this is a specific case, it is only a proof that these crises in the euro area are different, that they have different causes and that they lead to different consequences, and that there should therefore also be different recipes for their solution, which unfortunately is not the case. the response of the european union, of the european institutions, is not diversified, it's universal, because we're in the eurozone, so it's massive financial aid, again, the release of large amounts of money out of the budget. these are fiscal measures, in particular budgetary restrictions, and the introduction of new pan-european regulatory measures such as the banking union. in the case of cyprus, one very unfortunate measure was proposed, which was fortunately dropped, and that was the confiscation of part of the private deposits in the banks, which is unacceptable, and i think we can all agree on that. but we see that the eurozone is potentially unstable, that it has elements of instability built into it systemically, and that in times of crisis, that instability only comes to the surface. what is happening now within the european union is not a normal cyclical crisis that comes and goes, it is simply a systemic structural crisis of european integration that cannot be cured by further european integration. one country after another is falling into it. in the case of cyprus, it is still possible to use the traditional solution, it is still possible to use the so-called bailout, because cyprus is small enough, so it will take off, someone will pay for it. but what happens when a country that is far more economically powerful, larger and more populous, such as spain or italy, gets into trouble? what will you do after the money is taken? such funds are simply not available to the european union and the euro area. and another thing that worries me is that cyprus seems to be used as a pretext to attack the tax sovereignty and autonomy of individual member countries. under the pretext of further unification and european solutions, the right of each country to have its own tax policy is being attacked here. this is absolutely unacceptable to us, because tax competition must remain at the heart of the single market, as it ensures economic growth and the competitiveness of europe.
in writing. − although it is a seemingly simple, rather technical standard, its adoption is a significant positive step. the convention as such was signed in 2007, but its adoption by all eu member states required significant diplomatic activity. the signing of the convention is not just a political act, but the report also addresses the social sphere and opens up the possibility of financial compensation for single mothers in particular. the convention can also be seen as a step towards promoting the protection of the rights of the child. i believe it will be a good part of the european social model.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this resolution we are discussing here today is the very last progress report on croatia delivered by any eu institution. in a few weeks, croatia’s journey to eu membership will be completed. croatia has met its commitments arising from the negotiations, including the ten priority tasks set by the commission. there can be no doubt that the country is fully ready for membership. croatian democracy is strong, the social market economy is viable and i also think the country has the capacity to fulfil membership obligations in many other areas. for croatia, however, 1 july should not be understood as an end. rather i think it is the beginning of a new era that will bring new challenges, new opportunities and new responsibilities. for croatia, membership of the eu is a golden opportunity to improve the functioning of the country, the state apparatus and the economy and, as we have already mentioned, also to set the country on the path to economic growth. but of course after 1 july this process will be a domestically-driven process. croatia will also assume responsibility for the future of the european union, because i think it is neither in the interests of croatia, the eu or of croatia’s eastern neighbours to create some sort of black hole in the western balkans. so we expect croatia and also its neighbours such as slovenia, hungary and other countries to help the bosniaks, the serbs, the montenegrins, the macedonians and the albanians to move faster on the path towards the eu. in those ten years of negotiations, croatia collected a vast amount of know-how and experience and we hope that this know-how and experience will be given to the neighbours of croatia. as i said, i have full confidence that membership of the eu will make croatia, and of course the eu as a whole, stronger, more prosperous and more secure. it is another stage in our dream to have europe united from the west to the east, and i would like to congratulate our croatian friends. i would also like to congratulate the newly-elected members of this house from croatia and to thank the shadow rapporteurs and of course the commissioner and the council for their cooperation. (applause)
mr president, i think this report comes at an important time. compared to previous years, there is an opportunity for a real breakthrough in eu-turkish relations. a number of important and positive elements are falling into place. firstly, the accession negotiations are finally unblocked after more than two years without movement. a chapter has been opened on regional policy, and i think more chapters should be opened as soon as possible. secondly, i think the commission’s positive agenda is delivering. for example, there is clear progress towards the readmission agreement and a road towards visa liberalisation. thirdly, a just and lasting settlement of the kurdish issue appears to be within reach. if that happens, i think it would not only put an end to a tragic and violent chapter in turkish history, it would also positively influence the turkish accession process and, of course, the regional security situation, especially with regard to syria. of course a lot remains to be done. above all, there is a chance to design a new democratic constitution. this process will be of crucial importance to turkey’s democratic future and also to its place in europe. there is a chance that this constitutional process can strengthen the foundation of democracy, inclusivity and, above all, the secular state in turkey. i think the eu too should deliver on its commitments. sometimes we talk about chapters 23 and 24, the rule of law, the judiciary and fundamental rights. i wish these chapters were open. we talk about energy, another crucial point both for turkey and, above all, for the eu. i think we should do everything to open these chapters. there are, of course, other issues where cooperation should be strengthened, such as strategic and security issues. look at what is going on in syria and the middle east; turkey is a crucial partner. it is in the interests both of turkey and the eu to cooperate. so again, i would like to see closer cooperation between, for example, the turkish foreign minister and the eu on those issues.
mr president, i think there is no doubt that we are dealing with a different country than ten years ago. in this time, turkey has turned into a real regional power in all senses of the word. this morning we had a very lively debate on the situation in cyprus, and mr cohn-bendit from the green group spoke. no one would suspect that i would agree with him very often, but this time i did. he made a very good point when he said that there is a window of opportunity to move forward in overcoming the island’s divisions. i think that he was right and that this opportunity is here. if it could be seen that a real effort based on generosity and goodwill was being made by both communities to come to an agreement, this would have a positive economic effect. there could also be an increase in investment and tourism, and – as some of you have already mentioned – possible oil and gas exploration. i think we should encourage and use turkey’s renewed status as a regional power to try to involve it more in helping us to resolve the problem of cyprus. the eu is very good at turning every crisis into an opportunity, although we know that it is usually for the wrong reasons. here is something useful that it should encourage.
mr president, turkey is a key partner for the european union, both because of its strategic position, the size of its economy and its market, and because of its security policy. i believe that the accession process currently under way is one of the most appropriate ways of supporting the reforms that turkey needs to undertake, both in the areas of human rights, women's rights, the judiciary and the necessary reforms in the agricultural sector. turkey is the eu's sixth largest trading partner. and it will play an important role in building the energy routes for the gas and oil that europe desperately needs to get from its neighbours to europe. activities related to the fight against terrorism and the drafting of a new constitution, combined with extensive discussions with diverse civil society, are certainly a positive step. the accession process should also be used to put more pressure on the cyprus problem.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, colleagues, friends, obviously after 1 july, when croatia enters the eu, montenegro will be the frontrunner in the western balkan enlargement process. montenegro stands as a clear example to the rest of the region that progress towards accession is achievable if the country concentrates on reform. however, even though it is on the right track, montenegro still has a long way to go. it must step up its efforts to consolidate an impartial and efficient judiciary and extend the fight against corruption. it should also ensure that the public administration is depoliticised and merit-based, with a view to creating an institutional foundation for the implementation of reforms in all other sectors. i also think it should dispel concerns over problems in the area of media freedom. the ability of journalists to freely criticise those in power is a fundamental right and a european value. after all, free and critical media provide the kind of feedback that is necessary for effective governance. finally, i think that montenegro should remain focused on reforms and european integration. this should be the priority for all major political parties. in other words, when there are elections and after elections, they should not be distracted by other local issues in the country. overall, my group supports the enlargement process. we support it, and we would like to see montenegro given a fast track if it delivers. thank you very much.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative is celebrating one year in april 2013. as the shadow rapporteur who was at the origin of the european citizens' initiative, i regret to say that after one year of operation, we still have little to celebrate. eu citizens are not yet fully aware of the possibility of actively influencing the introduction of legislation and participating in the european codecision process. there are currently 14 citizen initiatives running on the internet. only one of them an initiative that promotes the right to water as a basic human right has successfully collected the necessary number of signatures. but the problem is that it does not meet the necessary criteria in terms of the number of signatures needed in each member state. i see the main shortcoming of the european citizens' initiative in its lack of outreach to eu citizens and perhaps in a certain mistrust of the instrument. for example, an initiative to abolish roaming charges in the european union has not yet generated enough signatures. i consider this to be a very topical issue in view of the need to complete the single market. i consider that the most important measures to improve the current situation are simplification of the submission of initiatives and collection of signatures, an increase in the period for collecting signatures and the fact that the organisers, as well as the general public, have information on the progress of the initiative.
in writing. the simplification of the visa policy for citizens of the republic of ukraine is certainly a step in the right direction. it is good that it comes at a time when the situation in ukraine is not easy and when many citizens of ukraine have begun to feel that the eu is only dictating 'domestic tasks' to ukraine, but is not doing anything to help. i hope that the approval will be perceived not only by political representatives but also by the citizens of ukraine as a positive signal and that it will be an impetus to a faster resolution of some of the contentious issues between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of visa facilitation for the citizens of the republic of moldova, although, as in the case of ukraine, i cannot help but criticise that visa facilitation could have come much earlier. the moldovan side in particular was prepared for this step earlier. on the positive side, this agreement will make it easier for moldovan citizens to travel to the eu, which also has a humanitarian dimension. i hope that visa facilitation will also be introduced with belarus and russia in the near future. both are sensitive issues. i'm sure our partners would appreciate such a helpful gesture.
in writing. − despite some reservations, i voted in favour of this resolution to support the integration of serbia into european integration. at a time when the eu is strongly affected by the turbulent situation in the euro area, it is more than necessary in my view to reiterate again and again that the enlargement process is continuing, will continue and that it includes serbia. because this vision and its fulfillment is more important today in the western balkans than ever before. the belgrade-pristina agreement is not only in the interests of the ordinary people living in that area, but also of the balkans and of europe as a whole. both sides are now close to a historic compromise that would bring them out of the shadows of the past. it is important, as baroness ashton points out, that the eu does not have the right to impose an agreement on anyone. after her talks yesterday with both parties concerned, it seems that the proposed compromise is more acceptable to serbia than before. i firmly believe that a solution can be found that satisfies both sides. because only such a solution has a chance of being permanent and gradually calming the situation in the region.
in writing. − i cannot help feeling that the proposed resolution is addressing kosovo's most serious problems simply by omitting them. let me make a small point about point 7 for illustration. it states, among other things, that 'the idea of working-class kosovo or any other western balkan state is directed against the spirit of european integration'. when did we discover this feeling of territorial integrity in brussels? only after the bombing of yugoslavia by nato aircraft, only after the denial of un security council resolution 1244 of 10 june 1999, only after the gross violation of the obligations arising from the diplomatic recognition of the republic of serbia. what spirit of european integration gave the people of kosovo the right to create their own state while denying the same right to the serbs in bosnia and herzegovina, for example? where did european union officials, led by the former high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, get the authority to create an artificial kosovo state that has no historical roots, is economically unviable and has essentially the same ethnic composition as neighboring albania? the motion for a resolution contains a pre-established condition for negotiations between pristina and belgrade which i find unacceptable: indivisibility. if a compromise for a lasting agreement requires the incorporation of some areas of today's kosovo into serbia, this is in the spirit of european integration. european integration only makes sense if it serves peace.
first of all, commissioner, i would like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by mr reul to have the most open discussion possible in this particular area of renewable energy. the debate on renewables in europe has been going on for a long time, and in that time there has been a very dynamic development in the use of energy from so-called renewable sources themselves. as a result, in an effort to promote renewable energy, many countries have resorted to various types of financial incentives, often including direct subsidies on the purchase price of energy so obtained, in order to be competitive at all. the result is more than thirty different support programmes in the member states of the european union. clearly, this situation is very complex and almost unsustainable, and many countries are looking for a way out. it is often also linked, so to speak, to corruption and it greatly complicates and threatens the stability of energy networks. the first thing to do is to make the economy dependent on the use of renewable resources, and i therefore oppose the attempt to set and increase such binding targets on a global scale. the geographical and technical conditions of each country must be taken into account in order to really maximise the economic benefits that europe can derive from renewable sources.
thank you, mr president. renewable energy has a dual purpose. they help to achieve europe's energy security alongside nuclear energy. second, because they have a higher cost per unit of energy produced, they help create pressure to reduce energy demand, to introduce energy-saving technologies. on the contrary, when there is a surplus of resources, as was needed in the past in the eastern countries or in the soviet union, it is this surplus of resources that has led to technological backwardness and blocked technological development. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. it would, however, be a mistake to try to achieve an energy monoculture, such as the ambitious plan to achieve 100% wind power coverage in scotland. i think there are a number of unresolved problems which mr reul rightly points out, such as the problem of missing infrastructure in renewable energy sources, or the problem of connecting or combining small and large systems. thank you, sir.
in writing. three years after the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico, the eu is passing legislation to help prevent similar disasters. it is a unique piece of legislation that unifies safety standards across the eu and requires compliance by european companies outside european waters. unlike the us, where president obama lifted the moratorium in 2011 and instead allowed more projects both in the gulf of mexico and off the coast of alaska, europe is moving towards protecting rig workers, protecting the environment, better communicating with the public and being more prepared for disasters. it is to be hoped that other countries will follow the eu's example. the arctic waters are a particular problem. the serious environmental concerns in this area require particular attention. extracting oil and gas in such extreme conditions can cause irreversible damage to the entire ecosystem. the envi committee recommended that member states introduce a moratorium on mining in the arctic, the resulting text only requiring compliance with the strictest environmental limits in the area. however, the directive seeks to reduce the incidence and consequences of major accidents related to offshore oil and gas production as much as possible, and the czech republic, although it has no coastal waters, should respect and promote these principles and the eu's high standards.
mr president, allow me, as the shadow rapporteur from the country concerned, the czech republic, to first of all thank my colleague mr duff for his cooperation and i very much welcome his amendment which proposes a negative opinion. why would you do that? let me give you a few facts. both chambers of the czech parliament approved the lisbon treaty, including the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in 2009 without any conditions. at the time, i was a member of the czech parliament and supported the lisbon treaty and the charter. the question of the exemption was not on the agenda at all, or any such proposal was not put forward. the constitutional court of the czech republic also twice in 2008 and in 2009 ruled that the treaty of lisbon is in conformity with the constitutional order of the czech republic. during this period, the request of the czech republic initiated by the president of the republic to join protocol no. 30 first appeared. the question arises whether the request made in this way was fully constitutional. however, the issue was not resolved at the time, as there was an interest in the czech republic being the last in europe to ratify the lisbon treaty. in this context, i would expect that at least in the future the government will discuss the whole matter in the national parliament and only on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations will it request or not request the said change, or obtain a proper mandate for this step. the senate, the upper house of the czech parliament, by its resolution of 6 october 2011 questioned the constitutionality of this promise and at the same time called on the government to waive the requirement. unfortunately, that did not happen. the current senate continues to advise against ratifying the protocol. in this context, it is clear that there are legitimate concerns on the part of the political representation in the czech republic that the adoption of protocol no 30 would lead to a restriction of citizens' social rights in particular in the czech republic and, here, i fully agree with the rapporteur, to the creation of legal uncertainty. it is impossible for the european parliament not to respect the decision of both chambers of the czech parliament, that is, the national parliament of a member state which did not discuss the exception at all, let alone approve it in any way. the adoption of a negative opinion in wednesday's vote is of great importance for the citizens of the czech republic, who are entitled to the same rights as other citizens of other countries of the european union, which they have already legally acquired by signing and ratifying the treaty of lisbon. these rights would be lost to czech citizens, and this is against the spirit of all international conventions.
for the ecr group. time is running relentlessly fast. i would therefore like to recall that it is almost four years since the heads of state or government of the member states agreed that the czech republic should accede to the protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the fact that the european parliament as a whole has not yet formally expressed itself on this issue is, in my view, a huge mistake and a clear signal of our inability to reach out. how are we going to convince people that we can do something about the complex problems of the economic and financial crisis, how can they trust us to promote economic growth and reduce unemployment if we are unable to adopt a one-page document in a timely manner? i would like to say two things on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists. first, unlike international organisations, sovereign member states have a legal personality which is inherent in their physical existence. it is not created by international law or the will of other entities. secondly, we fully support the european council's proposal not to convene a convention for the purpose of accession to the protocol. in general, we believe that the political direction of the european union and the future of european integration is primarily a matter for the nation states. we therefore do not support the creation of various quasi-institutions deciding on the transfer of competences and decision-making powers from the national to the european level. thank you, sir.
mr president, the economic stagnation which has been going on for several years in the vast majority of the member states of the european union is also causing, among other things, significant shortfalls in the revenue side of the national budgets. the ecr group therefore supports proposals that seek to derive financial revenue from taxpayers' misconduct rather than raising the current tax ceilings or even devising and introducing entirely new taxes. however, i would like to stress at the outset that we consider tax competition to be an economically sound process. for a process that has positive pro-growth implications. which limits government spending and encourages business to move, which is essential for economic growth. the ecr group in the european parliament believes that tax autonomy can lead to a smaller but better and more efficient public sector and is a driver for private enterprise. in this sense, we support all proposals that do not call for a direct transfer of the powers of national tax jurisdictions to the transnational level. in our proposals we want the national tax codes to be as simple and understandable as possible. not only because it would get rid of the thousands of different exemptions that are used to avoid taxation, but also because the simple tax laws are fair to small business owners. they have neither the time nor the money to keep up with the complex and ever-changing tax laws. they don't have the means to pay for tax consultants or lawyers. we do not wish to block efforts to coordinate voluntarily and mutually beneficial tax policies between member states. but we are very cautious where the european commission is to gain more powers on such sensitive issues as taxation at the expense of the member states. we do not think that it should be the european commission that should be given the power to negotiate tax treaties with third countries. it is difficult for us to accept the abandonment of the principle of sovereign conclusion of intergovernmental bilateral tax treaties. we are wary of the establishment of a platform for good tax administration, which is an own initiative of the european commission. not because we reject good tax administration at national level, but because we see such an initiative as a step towards broad tax harmonisation.
the debate on tax fraud and tax evasion, which lead to a loss of one trillion euros a year, was, as usual, full of wishful thinking. the fact is that the eu and some member states have so far been hypocritical about tax havens, and i doubt that anything will change. until the relevant european legislation is developed, which will strictly punish the existence of tax havens in the member states, we will not see any changes.
in writing. i support the recommendations of the report by my colleague, ms mojca kleva kekuš, on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. the fight against tax evasion is also a fight for sustainable public finances and accessible public services. it is interesting that the commission's estimate of tax evasion corresponds, for example, to the negotiated eu budget for the next seven years, the amount and the individual items of which are now the subject of complex negotiations between the member states in the council and the european parliament, and from which we are promised support to boost growth and employment. other information suggests that tax evasion covers all public health expenditure in eu member states. this shows the unsustainable scale of the problem. the member states must therefore take the fight against tax evasion seriously. otherwise, it would be a mockery of all honest taxpayers in europe. europe's failed policy of budget cuts has a clear alternative. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for all the work she has done.
in writing. − the importance of industrial zones and the opportunities for exploiting their potential is currently being discussed. the correct use of the structural funds, with the targeted allocation of funds to the development of these industrial areas, has a significant impact on life in a particular region, in the short term and especially in the long term. the potential to help significantly in creating a number of jobs and the associated improvement in the living standards of the population is visible here. i welcome the renewed emphasis on regional strategies, with a view to taking account of regional differences and not forgetting the issues related to environmental burden. in this context, i supported the report.
in writing. i supported the report on women's rights in the acceding balkan countries because it highlights the importance for women in the western balkan countries to be able to participate actively in political, social and economic life. a separate serious chapter is cross-border kidnappings. 30% of the crimes in europe take place in the western balkans and the victims are overwhelmingly women. many western balkan countries have already adopted legislation on gender equality, a requirement for eu accession, but this right is not effectively implemented and often the public is not sufficiently informed about it. i therefore consider it important that the report addresses each of the countries individually with the specific measures required, as the individual countries are at different stages of accession.
madam president, although today's debate concerns the creation of a single supervisory mechanism and the associated adjustment of the powers of the european banking authority, i think it is necessary to place it in the overall context. so first of all, what are the reasons for the banking union project? second, what is the architecture of this design? third, what are the possible benefits and losses of establishing such a union? fourth, is this a process that the voters want and are they really informed about the consequences? does the process of creation have full democratic legitimacy? the banking union project, in my view, represents the embryonic stage of the fiscal union. the ongoing deep crisis in the euro area has shown that the creation of a political project for a common currency, i.e. the creation of a monetary union in an area where a fiscal union with fiscal and budgetary centralisation had not previously been created, was a step in the wrong direction. however, current developments show that even fiscal union cannot be achieved without the creation of a central political union. and it is questionable whether the citizens of the individual member states even want such a political union. i would like to thank mr duff, who in one of his answers this afternoon said very precisely and very eloquently what the future of such a political union must be. the structure of the banking union proposal is to establish a single supervisory authority for banks in the euro area, but it is mainly to create a european deposit insurance scheme and a common system for bank recovery and restructuring. however, the latter two pillars in particular present significant risks. the joint deposit insurance and restructuring funds create a safety net which increases the moral hazard. the shift of supervision to a transnational level may deepen the asymmetry between local banks and regulators. another problem is that the banking union is being created by a special, i would call it the 'salomon' method, in which a system of banking supervision is first created and automatically the transnational deposit insurance scheme and the pan-european bank recovery scheme are expected to be approved without any problems. it appears that different member states show different degrees of willingness to join risky proposals. this threatens to leave the architecture of the banking union incomplete and to create more problems than benefits. in any event, if the banking union is completed, it will change the legal form of the union for decades to come. it will be a milestone in the history of the integration process and such a crucial decision cannot be taken behind the backs of the voters without their consent. i would like to commend both rapporteurs, mrs thyssen and mr giegolde, for being aware of this moment, of this narrow space, in the debate.
mr president, we have known for a long time that supervision of the big banks has failed flagrantly and that today is the five minutes after twelve to create a more rigorous coordinated and democratically controllable supervision of both the big banks and the national central banks so that they can no longer manipulate the numbers. it has already cost public budgets many billions of euros. so i welcome the fact that we have almost the final legislative framework on the table for the first pillar of the banking union. i appreciate that the rapporteurs have also carefully negotiated with the council the conditions under which non-euro area countries will also be able to join and co-decide on surveillance. some of my colleagues here have criticized their veto power and the ability to step down after three years for serious reasons. i welcome the participation of non-euro area countries. moreover, this voluntary nature will also be a test of the transparency and efficiency, the usefulness of joint supervision. but today, the banking lobby's voice of rejection is also strong, reinforcing the anti-european positions of some politicians and governments. unfortunately, in my country too. i therefore stress that i also consider it paramount to protect the interests of savers and public budgets, from which bank debts have been recovered. i reject the purposeful intimidation of eurosceptics. they are concerned about the transnational coordination of supervision, i.e. the stress tests of troubled multinational banks, as well as the oversight of responsible fiscal policies by governments. both are undoubtedly in the interest of all citizens, and the aim of honest politicians, including at national level, should be to explain this, not to frighten citizens.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i would like to welcome the european parliament's initiative to seek information for those who are limited in their access to information resources because of their health. in my letter of december 2012 to the president of the european commission, i asked for more details on the commission's position and procedure in this area. i followed essentially the same priorities as those contained in the question for oral answer. as the european parliament, we want and need to know what guarantees and access options for visually impaired people the european commission is promoting in the negotiations. we must collectively push for our representatives to promote full access to works in the appropriate format. the aim and the result of our joint efforts with the european commission (and the commissioner's speech gives me hope) must be to ensure the widest possible access to works, with appropriate protection of intellectual property rights, of course.
madam president, the pyrotechnic directive has been removed from the package of nine directives on the marketing of technical products, because otherwise, as of the fourth of july, the production of car airbags would be illegal throughout europe. we have modernised the rules to better protect our consumers from substandard products placed on the market, particularly from asia. and i want to thank everyone who has contributed to the modernization of the directive.
in writing. i believe that the €1 trillion tax deficit, which instead of going to the european budgets, travels through tax havens and ends up in the pockets of the cunning crooks, is placing an unacceptable burden on the entire european economy and holding it down. without effective action against tax havens, europe will have a hard time getting out of the crisis. tax evasion and fraud have a number of serious consequences. the eu must join forces and come up with a common approach to preventing the flow of huge sums of money to tax havens. the common european procedure should include the definition of tax havens, the criteria on the basis of which tax havens can be identified, as well as the appropriate measures that should be applied to such tax havens.
in writing. i see the arrival of the new president, milos zeman, at the castle as the beginning of the end of the era of senseless anti-european reservation. however, václav klaus, who has tried to sabotage european integration throughout his term, has left behind a contradictory legacy, including the so-called 'czech exceptions' to the eu charter of fundamental rights. like the upper house of parliament, i fundamentally reject this exception because in my opinion it undermines the full legal protection of czech citizens. i agree with the rapporteur that the introduction of the protocol would lead to legal uncertainty and political confusion. i am therefore very pleased that after lengthy negotiations, the draft report by mr duff has won a strong majority in the committee on constitutional affairs. the european parliament, as an advisory body, must send a clear signal to the european council that, in the interests of the citizens of the czech republic as well as of the other member states, it does not agree with the czech republic's request to attach this derogation to the already ratified treaty of lisbon as a protocol. i shall therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, which recommends that the council not deal with the matter.
madam president, i voted against the final report on the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in the czech republic. although parliament had only a consultative role, the report was discussed by parliament for an unusually long time and changed its form several times. clearly, there was not much will in this parliament to deliver on the promise made to the czech republic at the 2009 heads of state summit. the weakness of the will to accept this report in plenary is shown by the fact that, even though the report finally came to the vote after many delays and a third amendment, the opinion was changed from neutral to negative just before the vote in plenary. the history and particular circumstances of the examination of the czech protocol report clearly show that the council should not reflect on the parliament's opinion and should try to deliver on the promise made in 2009. i have already said here that i believe that the european union as a whole is built on agreements, agreements between member states and institutions. if we violate these agreements, we will jeopardise the pillar of trust on which all eu cooperation is built.
in writing. - i am glad that the view prevailed not to block the czech exception and to leave it to the member states to deal with it and decide whether to implement it. i am convinced that the uncertainty on the czech political scene, which does not make it clear whether the czech exception has the support of the government, parliament and president, and therefore whether the czech republic itself still subscribes to it, played an important role in the lengthy debate and, ultimately, in the ep's final position. the most likely scenario therefore seems to me to be one where the european council, after receiving the ep's opinion, approves the czech derogation, but the member states wait until the outcome of the ratification process in the czech republic for its ratification.
in writing. the negative opinion of the european parliament, and thus the failure to recommend to the european council not to discuss the protocol, is important for all citizens of the czech republic. czech citizens must not be second-class citizens, because they are also european citizens and have the right to the same protection as all citizens of the european union. the result of today's vote therefore seems to me to be entirely logical, also in the context of the czech legal order and respect for the rules of democracy. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. the report, as drafted by mr duff, goes against the political agreements reached at the european council in october 2009 which succeeded in unblocking the ratification process of the lisbon treaty. by adopting this report as amended, the european parliament is sending a clear signal to the future that the political agreements reached at the highest level are not being respected in the european union. nor can a majority in the european parliament trample on the rights and identity of a member state, regardless of the interests and will of that member state. this is a very serious precedent which could deprive the european parliament of its credibility. at the same time, it is a clear signal that the publicly declared promise does not apply in the eu and the chosen way to unblock the ratification of primary law was not guided by good intentions on the part of the eu institutions. the proposal for the czech republic to accede to protocol no 30, which so far only applies to the uk and poland, means that the eu charter of fundamental rights will apply to czech citizens to the full extent of the application of european law. the only effect of accession to the protocol will be to confirm declaratorily that the charter cannot be used to review purely national legislation or situations outside the scope of eu law, and ultimately to avoid any threat of the application of an extensive interpretation of the charter by the court of justice of the eu.
in writing. - i supported the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, as it would strengthen the security of victims of violence who have been granted a protection order. it is clearly a beneficial step, which i welcome. up to a quarter of women in the eu experience violence during their lifetime. the regulation establishes an effective system for protecting victims of violence, persecution or abduction so that measures to protect them can be applied equally across the eu. i also support the creation of specialised victim support services, which must have all information available in an understandable form and in their mother tongue and can complete a multilingual certificate that will be automatically transferable between member states and available online.
mr president, nobody expected that bosnia and herzegovina’s road to the eu would be easy, because, given the legacy of the conflict and the complex institutional structure of the state – as doris pack’s report makes clear – a lot remains to be done. a constitutional reform must be launched to streamline decision-making and avoid political paralysis now and in the future. without functioning institutions at all levels, it will be not only difficult but, i think, impossible to implement the necessary reforms and modernise the country. the sejdić-finci ruling still awaits implementation. beyond that, inclusive political representation, the rule of law and the judicial system all need to be strengthened. however, the magnitude of the challenges facing bosnia and herzegovina cannot be an excuse for inaction. rather, it requires the bosnian political elites to redouble their efforts and bring the country closer to the eu in the interests of the bosnian population. croatia will become a member of the eu on 1 july 2013. montenegro is making substantial progress. we are now seeing progress in the relationship between belgrade and pristina, and i do not think that bosnia and herzegovina should lag behind. but it is not up to us. yes, we want to help, but it is, above all, up to the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to do their job.
blue-card answer. – to answer the question briefly: yes, i can see that possibility. we should encourage this effort, but at the same time we have to be aware of the fact that life for many people in bosnia and herzegovina will be more difficult because croatia will be in the eu, and there will now be a de facto border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. it will be more difficult for people to travel to croatia, and of course it will also be more difficult for certain goods. however, it is very important to encourage this cross-border cooperation. i do not see any other way. i would like to ask lord dartmouth a question, if he would allow that. sir, could you give us a figure? because you paint the people from bosnia and herzegovina as being some kind of a threat to a country which has 62 or 63 million people – a country which was always a friend to the central and eastern european nations. so can you give us the figure of how many people from bosnia and herzegovina live in britain? (the speaker put a blue-card question pursuant to rule 149(8))
in writing. bosnia and herzegovina is a country that has always had a special status in the balkans. after the austro-hungarian annexation in 1928, it was evident that there was a special settlement structure and that the difference between serbs, croats and muslims was not in the language but in the religion professed. the eu institutions do not seem to have understood this until now, and the doris pack report is clear evidence of this. at present, bosnia and herzegovina is a typical confederation: the republic of serbia on one side, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina on the other. the situation of national minorities is very delicate and the bloody conflict has its consequences to this day. originally, the rural population of bosnia and herzegovina was overwhelmingly orthodox, with the small exception of the catholic area in the westernmost part of the country. the towns were muslim. of course, this greatly underestimated the situation during the war conflict and made it difficult to administratively divide the country. because this division is not static and 100%, people who speak the same language but have different religions necessarily live side by side in bosnia and herzegovina. in other parts of europe, this division would be considered absurd, but here the effect of the so-called european structures of division still supports it. the confederative character of bosnia and herzegovina should be accepted in the further negotiations and some ill-considered proposals should be avoided. in the future, it is necessary to negotiate, not to order.
mr president, macedonia had a very difficult start to 2013. there was a political crisis and incidents of inter-ethnic tensions but, as on many occasions in the past, the country has overcome to a large extent many of these problems and is working to restore its democratic credibility. a cross-party agreement was reached, a boycott of local elections was averted and the parliament is functioning again. i think the commission delivered quite a positive report. now it is time for the eu to make good on its commitment. after being a candidate for four years, macedonia should be granted a date for the opening of the negotiations. this is in the interest of the eu countries, it is in the interest of macedonia and its citizens and above all it is in the interest of the neighbouring countries.
i have received two motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the accession of myanmar/burma to the gsp: - report by david martin on behalf of the committee on international trade on the renewal of access of myanmar/burma to the gsp [com (2012) 0524 - c7-0297/2012 - 2012/0251 (cod) ] and - commission statement on the accession of myanmar/burma to the gsp (2012/2929 (rsp)).
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on eu law and international investment law:- report by paweł zalewski on behalf of the committee on international trade on financial liability in relation to investor-state dispute settlement tribunals established by international agreements to which the eu is a party and - question for oral answer to the commission on the bilateral investment agreement and eu law, by daniel caspary, paweł zalewski, david martin, bernd lange, silvanach ko-mehrin, helmut scholz, franz keller (o000043/2013 - b7-0120/2013/p) (2013/2610 (((p)).
it was not done in accordance with our rules, but we will let it be.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 may 2013.
madam president, commissioner, i said here some two years ago that i regard the macro-regional strategy as primarily a political instrument to facilitate territorial cooperation and to promote cooperation in the internal market. in my view, it is above all a tool for making more effective use of existing initiatives, programmes, financial instruments, cooperation platforms and institutions. a tool to streamline and better structure the approach to the challenges faced by larger european cross-border geographical entities. an instrument based on agreed and approved principles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary and financial neutrality of the community is not jeopardised. i'm not going to change that after two years as coordinator of my faction. the european conservatives and reformists group considers it crucial that the concept of macro-regional strategies at european level be addressed in a structured and systematic way in the context of other policies. it is therefore desirable to adopt a strategic approach to this issue, particularly as regards the number of strategies, their concentration, their nature, the priority projects and their own management. i therefore ask the commission to clarify its approach not only to the alpine strategy but also to other macro-regional strategies already in existence or under consideration that may emerge in other parts of europe, such as the carpathian region.
in writing. the non-commercial movement of pet dogs, cats and ferrets has been regulated by the regulation since 2003. the spread and occurrence of rabies in domestic animals in the eu has been reduced or stopped. this was certainly helped by the well-implemented eu internal movement regulation. in addition, some countries have their own stricter conditions for movement and subsequent quarantines. the report presented is intended to continue the successful trend of the previous regulation. in addition, the rapporteur is seeking to facilitate the movement of animals with their owners within the eu, up to a maximum of 5 animals per owner. however, we must be vigilant and take advantage of past experiences where commercial movements of animals have been fraudulently disguised as movements for pleasure, non-commercial breeding, thus breaching the conditions and increasing the possibility of spreading disease and illness. i welcome the clarity of the whole proposal, which can be clearly readable and clear to all interested parties, owners, veterinarians and competent control authorities. the report is a useful contribution to the problem and i fully support it.
mr president, after the words ‘in the report he prepares’, we will have the words ‘welcomes the spring report of 16 april 2013 from the european commission and’ ... that is the end of the amendment. we then have ‘calls on the irish presidency ...’. it is my amendment and also mr kukan’s amendment from the epp group.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution. i consider the freezing of the assets of all kinds of dictators and those who abuse political power for personal gain to be a legitimate part of human rights policy. on the other hand, any delay that hinders the transfer of such seized assets to the country from which the stolen wealth originates seriously damages the eu's image. i would like to make a few specific comments on these general principles. it's not just bureaucratic regulations that prevent the transfer of property. the problem is that the property is not transferred to the people, but to a new political representation. the often confusing, even chaotic situation in some arab spring countries can easily lead to the release of assets that could deepen internal strife, be used to create a new corrupt oligarchy, or be appropriated by self-styled 'friends' of the arab spring countries for so-called good deeds. and we should not forget that confiscated embezzled property is only a small part of the national wealth that is involved in these countries. i would remind you that both the international covenant on civil and political rights and the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights begin by recognising the right to self-determination, including the right to dispose freely of one's natural resources. if we fail to ensure that these rights are respected, the reproduction of the abuse of power for material gain, both by the new rulers and their foreign protectors, is inevitable.
in writing. the unnamed state called fyrom has a very special status. some bulgarian nationalists claim that macedonian is actually only a dialect of bulgarian, the greeks do not want to admit the name macedonia and the albanians who still come to the territory of macedonia are gradually promoting changes in the internal organization of the country, which strongly prefer them against the macedonians. eu representatives are watching this and not responding much to the council's responsible calls for an immediate date for the opening of accession negotiations. the eu has also been working with the european union to develop a common foreign and security policy. this inevitably leads to internal political problems, whether they arise from questions of ethnic composition or from questions of coexistence between different religions. the curious wording of § 12, which 'welcomes the authorities' efforts to break with the communist past', suggests a completely 'non-ideological' tone of the report. the efforts of the country's government to implement measures to reduce corruption and increase the efficiency and transparency of the judiciary are certainly worthy of support. the unnecessarily detailed recommendations, which seek to influence the country's various internal issues, along with the critical unemployment of youth and women, do not give this report much chance of becoming a suitable impulse for the country's development and its integration into the eu. despite the obvious negatives, we did not vote against this report.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on working conditions and health and safety standards in the light of the recent factory fires and building collapse in bangladesh because i share its call for an end to the toleration of inhumane working conditions in bangladesh. the death toll and injuries in the savar disaster in bangladesh have reached staggering proportions. 1,127 workers died, the vast majority of them women. the recurring tragedies not only in the textile factories, which show the world public opinion the real price we pay for cheap goods produced in this part of the world, prove the unsustainability of this situation. we can no longer close our eyes and repress these events from our conscience. it seems that after many unsuccessful attempts, the savar tragedy could be the beginning of a more systematic and committed cooperation between employee representatives, companies and civil society organizations, which should finally be concerned with improving the working conditions of employees. the signature and commitments of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh and the government's initiative are only the first pledge to be welcomed and supported, but at the same time to be closely monitored. the resolution also recalls the clothing brands that have so far refused to sign the agreement and calls on them to do so as soon as possible.
thank you for that reminder. i'll come back to that in a future announcement. it's ready. any other comments?
thank you for your comment, we will comment on this issue when we discuss this item.
reminder of the meeting. i'm going to go over this one more time. we have discussed this request, as you know, mr salafranca made this remark in plenary, with the legal affairs committee as such, and it is precisely in accordance with rule 140 (2) that we have tabled a motion for a resolution to approve this debate by roll-call vote.
let me explain that this announcement was given to the groups last night, so it was possible to prepare for it. does anyone have any comments before i put this to the vote, because i would very much like to avoid giving the impression that i am trying to influence this debate in any way. please, it's all been discussed with our legal department. please, you have the floor.
yes, that is to say, the questions have been answered, so please, i'll open the vote again. so let me explain the vote one more time. i'm sorry about that. a vote for means a vote to pass the resolution. please, this is a vote so serious that we need to tone down our emotions a little. i'm going to read the motion that was presented to me by the legal department. in accordance with rule 140 (2) of the rules of procedure, i propose that the first item of the debate on the cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in guantánamo: the hunger strike of prisoners be adopted without debate. we therefore vote on this motion. is that clear? we can vote. (the motion to alter the agenda was adopted.)
with this vote, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is india: the execution of mohammad afzal guru and its aftermath. mr. ryszard czarnecki will be the first speaker on this point.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on rwanda: case of victoire ingabire see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
mr president, first of all, i would like to join those who thank and appreciate the rapporteur's work. the agreement reached with the council is always the best possible solution. i'd like to pick up the following principles. avoid unnecessary administrative barriers that reduce competitiveness, introduce regulations based on proven knowledge rather than on assumptions, hopes or wishes, and ensure a high level of health protection for workers and others. i would like to add my voice to one of the forewords and support the view that even non-legislative measures, if properly applied by individual national governments, could lead to the desired result. i would like to state on behalf of my group, as coordinator, that we will support this draft report in the vote.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 june 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning customs enforcement of intellectual property rights and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1383/2003(06353/1/2013 – c7-0142/2013 – 2011/0137(cod)) (rapporteur: jürgen creutzmann (a7-0185/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june 2013.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
mr president, i see in the future of inland shipping an ecological alternative to combat congested roads, rising emissions and the risk of flooding. unfortunately, the czech republic, germany, and austria have all seen the extremely devastating consequences of this in the past week. the whole of central europe has long suffered from the lack of links between the three european seas: the black sea, the baltic sea and the north sea. i am concerned that such a major project, planned for hundreds of years, as the interconnection of the danube, oder and elbe rivers, is not included in the transeuropean transport network. in the czech republic, particularly in the moravian-silesian region, support from municipalities, associations of regions, businesses and universities is growing. the new president of the czech republic, miloš zeman, is providing great support. mr barroso also promised help during his visit to prague. both the polish and the slovak parties are also in favour of the measure. although the ten-t guidelines do not contain a permanent project in the conclusions of the trialogue, i will not give up and will continue to try to place it on the map of the backbone of european infrastructure, where it undoubtedly belongs. if my efforts are unsuccessful, i would at least call for the amendment of article 57 of the draft regulation foreseeing the next revision of the ten-t by 2023 so that, at the request of one or two states, the content of the transport network is revised immediately.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by vicente miguel garcés ramón, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a new agenda for european consumer policy (2012/2133(ini)) (a7-0163/2013).
mr president, a balanced european consumer policy must aim to make consumers equal partners with producers and traders. our priorities must include, in particular, the effective enforcement of existing rules, but also the establishment of a functioning system of collective redress, consumer education and support for the work of consumer organisations. i also regard the worrying signs of dual quality of products as a persistent problem and therefore expect the commission to finally start to seriously address the discrimination of certain consumers within the internal market. we must also continue to fight unfair trading practices. in the context of the evaluation report on the unfair commercial practices directive, i will highlight the demonstration campaigns and the associated aggressive techniques to distort choice, which often target particularly vulnerable consumers. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleague mr ramon for his excellent work on this report.
housing is a basic need of every human being. the absence of a basic need is likely to have a negative effect on his health. the crises that have occurred in recent years in some member states of the european union have of course made the social situation worse. the market itself is increasingly unable to meet the need for affordable housing, and rising prices increase the risk of disease, poverty and social exclusion. the profile of the population using social housing has changed recently. these are most often women on low incomes, single mothers, single parents, young families, large families, students or young people at the beginning of their working careers. all of this requires the necessary measures to improve the social tensions. member states need to step up their efforts to mainstream social housing investments into their medium- and long-term budgetary strategies in order to stimulate high-quality construction and renovation of social and affordable housing. i also stress that the various forms of homelessness - especially among women - should be addressed in a comprehensive way and be an integral part of all eu policy frameworks. social housing should exclude the creation of ghettos and should be geared towards social inclusion. from a social point of view, it is indeed necessary to make a reasonable investment in the social housing sector.
mr president, i shall probably be the only speaker on this subject, but i believe that this subject is very important and i would like to thank my colleague for taking up this subject. crossborder trade is the important frontier where we can strengthen competitiveness as such. i would also like to stress the importance of cooperation with the chambers of commerce as such, which play a very important role, and i fully agree with the rapporteur that few citizens know that they can benefit from free legal aid as such even before a dispute is initiated and that they can also obtain advice on these matters after the dispute has been settled. this certainty is very important and i therefore fully support the availability of databases of lawyers, both at chambers of commerce and in municipalities and cities, who will be linguistically equipped to help in these disputes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on regional aid are applied in a uniform manner and that the rules on regional aid are applied in a uniform manner. and that's what shows how important this topic is to us. however, despite its importance, parliament has only an advisory vote on the council. the primary law does not allow him to co-decide. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to emphasize once again that this can be seen as a democratic deficit in the decision-making of the european union which should be corrected in the primary law very soon. at the last meeting of our committee, the commissioner responsible, mr almunia, and i had a discussion on this subject. many of the changes that the commission is about to make to the regional aid rules compared to the original published proposal are commendable and i believe that they respond not only to our report but also to the crisis and developments in europe. examples include increasing the territorial coverage of investment-eligible regions from 45% to 47,5% or including large enterprises in type c regions for research, development and innovation, energy and environment and for risk capital as part of sectoral public aid rules. where appropriate, allow aid for new investments by large enterprises in type c regions where a new plant or product is created. these are definitely steps in the right direction. what can be argued against is the continuing consideration of tightening the assessment of the incentive effect for large enterprises. already today, the rules for public aid are very strict and many people are considering applying. the new designs, unfortunately, make the whole process even more difficult. the fact that these changes are left to large companies is strange because the original proposal was to apply these rules to small companies as well, but the fact that a larger company is applying for aid does not mean that we have to put more obstacles in its way or that we expect it to have money left over. if the commission has decided to waive the more stringent assessment for small enterprises, then it seems that these more stringent assessments are not necessary. his wanting them after the big companies is a double standard, which is not fair. i would like to refer again to a point raised by mr almunia in our committee, which is also the central theme of our report, namely that he does not believe that cohesion policy and public support policy need to be completely complementary. in my opinion, and the debate in the committee has made this clear, that is the problem. the dates used differ, the final map differs, the distribution of the regions eligible for support differs. the rules for including types of enterprises are different, and are still being negotiated in cohesion policy, as is the approach to simplification and reduction of administrative burden that i have spoken about in relation to large enterprises. nor are there uniform procedures for the deadlines and the recovery of aid for the relocation of undertakings, and there is certainly a lot more to be found. ladies and gentlemen, i know that the commission has tried to reflect the debate which has been taking place in recent months on the modernisation of the public aid rules. but there are still a few things that are not questioned, and the bureaucratic view prevails over the practical view, and it is the practical view of everyday life that i have tried to reflect in the report. i believe that the commission will eventually do the same.
in writing. the european union is founded on the principles of freedom and respect for civil rights, and must therefore never allow these rights to be infringed in any way. we have made clear what civil rights mean to us in the negotiations on acta and swift, but as the current prism affair shows, this issue is far from settled. the european parliament must insist very strongly that any mass and intentional collection of personal data on european citizens is unacceptable. the declared campaign against terrorism cannot be an excuse for operating surveillance systems like prism. the us must be aware that the european union has certain limits that it cannot go beyond. the protection of eu citizens' right to privacy must be such a limit. even with all the alliances and the need to fight terrorism, we cannot allow this to happen. the european commission must now use all available means in the negotiations for a us-eu trade agreement to increase pressure on the us authorities and achieve adequate data security for eu citizens. in europe, if a government, agency or company has been involved in surveillance, they must bear all the consequences.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to say that i do not support this report. solidarity is undoubtedly a necessary thing, but the fundamental attributes of solidarity are voluntariness and meaningfulness. the fund we want to support is not voluntary for individual member countries, and therefore not for their citizens. the increase, which not only goes against the commission's proposal but also does not respect the agreement between the member states and the european council, is not right. the fund does not operate within the framework of social policy, but within the framework of the common agricultural policy. there are many ways to help the poor that are more effective and more correct than buying up farm produce and then distributing the food. i firmly believe that individual member states are able to adopt solutions that are more beneficial to the poor in their own countries. how can we support the poor and how can we support the fight against poverty? there are a lot of better ways. these are support for education, support for job creation, liberalisation of labour relations, reform of tax policy in individual countries and support for competition between countries. i am convinced that simply buying up agricultural products and distributing food to the poorest will not help their situation in the long run. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. chairman, of course we all studied the materials as we had the opportunity and as we received them. i do not dispute that food distribution is part of social policy, but i do want us to understand things, and at least half the arguments we have discussed in connection with this report relate in some way to the common agricultural policy and the buying-out of agricultural products. i personally firmly believe that there are a number of measures, primarily at national level but also at european union level, which can significantly and above all in the long term improve the situation of the poorest citizens of individual member states. the situation differs from one member state to another, not only economically but also historically and culturally, and i am convinced that a national solution is much better than a common european solution. i believe that there are a number of steps we can take for the poor that will improve their situation in the long run, much more than just food rations.
in writing. - in the report i support the call for increased consumer awareness and effective enforcement of consumer law in all member states. but i am also struck by the reference to last year's resolution on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers, which was not entirely happy, especially because of the suppression of the principle of equal treatment and preferential protection of a certain group of the population. the report also calls for the introduction of a consumer collective redress institute. this issue was addressed by parliament in february 2012 and an impact assessment of this legal institution, which has some concerns about the abuse of class actions, is pending. moreover, it is not entirely clear what effects the introduction of such a system would have on the legal systems of the member states. therefore, i consider it premature to give the bianco support to this institute. for these reasons, i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. i supported the form of the new regulation on food for special purposes, as the main purpose of this legislation is to better define the rules for labelling, whereby consumers will be able to distinguish food for general consumption from food intended for specific groups more easily. in particular, i welcome measures to avoid confusing consumers with misleading information on packaging whether it be images or text. the consumer should make informed, not manipulated or idealised, choices when purchasing these special foods, which often have a major impact on health. i also agree with parliament's condition that the commission, in cooperation with the european food safety authority, will have to assess the need for specific provisions for sports food and nutrition and, if necessary, propose further legislative regulation of these foods.
madam president, the czech social democratic party and the s&d group support the social housing policy for the following reasons: decent affordable housing is one of the survival necessities of humankind, having an effect on health, social inclusion and, in the end, on the economic productivity of the population. despite the eu’s and the member states’ efforts, around 18% of the eu population lives in overcrowded or unfit housing. an additional 10% faces excess housing costs of more than 40% of their income. regrettably the situation is not improving. investments in social housing should increase construction and boost the economy and employment, sectors which are hard hit by the current crisis. it could also increase the energy efficiency of the housing sector. social housing is currently provided by various organisations, including private investors and non-profit organisations subsidised by their governments. in order to reduce the middlemen and costs, my personal preference is for direct investment by local, regional and national governments.
mr president, the european parliament and the european commission and the member states have been discussing the new rules for the schengen area and system for more than a year. the compromise reached, according to which the reintroduction of internal border controls should be a last resort only in the event of a threat to the internal security of the state concerned and after all other means have been exhausted, and in particular after consultation with the other member states and the european commission, is in my view balanced. in the context of the new rules, i also welcome the possibility of monitoring the unauthorised checks at internal borders. czech citizens have a negative experience in this regard, especially with checks on the german side of the border, and there will now be a practical tool to control and defend against this. the schengen area, free of internal border controls, is in my view one of the greatest achievements of european integration. it is therefore in our common interest that functional schengen cooperation be based on responsible compliance with the rules laid down.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 june 2013.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments under regulation (ec) no 73/2009 for the calendar year 2013 (com ((2013) 0159 c7-0079/2013 2013/0087 ((cod)) (a7-0186/2013).
mr president, i would like to make it clear that i do not support the commission's proposal to apply selective deductions from direct payments to farmers in 2013. it is questionable whether the application of the financial discipline regime is actually necessary at present. in the absence of an agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020, there is no need to reduce direct payments by 5% as proposed by the commission. i agree with the rapporteur that the reduction could be lower, by a maximum of 1%. i shall support the amendments in this direction in the vote tomorrow. but i think the biggest problem is the selective nature of the precipitation. the commission proposes to apply deductions to payments above eur 5 000. small farmers would therefore not be affected by the survey at all, and medium and large farmers would have to save even more. i don't agree with that approach at all. if savings are to be made, they must be fairly distributed to all farmers, and the only fair thing is that they all save in equal measure. if this is not the case, unfair advantages will be given to countries with smaller farm structures. this is unacceptable to the czech republic, which i represent here. we don't need to follow orwell's model of animal farm, we don't need equal and more equal.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 june 2013. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr president, we are talking about youth unemployment this morning. this is a serious subject, but i think we should talk about the unemployment of people with minimum qualifications, we should talk about the unemployment of people with disabilities, we should talk about the unemployment of people who are a few years away from retirement. we should ask ourselves, what are the causes of unemployment in all these groups of people? it's clearly the rigidity of the business environment. i meet very regularly with young people, entrepreneurs, and ask them about their problems. have you ever tried to ask yourself how many stamps, forms, are needed to open a little bistro on the corner? how many forms does it take to hire one person, and then if you just can't get it together, to fire them, which is almost impossible? that's the problem. what happened to the entrepreneurial spirit in europe when 4% of 18-year-olds want to start a business, as opposed to 26% of young people in the united states?
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to ask you to change the final vote to a roll-call vote.
in writing. i supported the appointment of the new croatian commissioner, neven mimici, as he demonstrated the prerequisites for the function of commissioner responsible for consumer policy at the public hearing held by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on 4 june 2013. in his speech, i particularly welcomed the statement that consumer rights are worthless if they are not applied, and also the priorities set. i believe that the declared strengthening of cooperation with the european parliament will finally lead to more attention being paid to the issue of dual quality of products in the internal market. i also agree that the specific content of consumer policy needs to be brought closer to the citizens, especially in those countries where consumer awareness of their rights and the culture of the business environment are not yet at a satisfactory level.
mr president, i voted for this report. reducing the administrative burden, especially on smes, should be our long-term priority. this is the kind of reduction in red tape that this report brings, when the two directives are merged into a single text, which the commission believes will mean potential savings of up to €1.5 billion a year for these businesses in the european union. in addition, micro-enterprises will not be required to comply with common european rules, which will make their job much easier. smes will benefit from certain concessions, in particular in the area of annexes to financial statements. in addition, the directive will include rules for large mining companies, which can also be referred to as public-interest entities, in order to increase transparency in investments. greater transparency in this area should lead to a reduction in corruption and an increase in control.
in writing. − the european commission has proposed cutting subsidies to farmers as part of austerity measures, but the cuts are not designed to be global but introduce a ceiling for aid below which it will not be cut. this will lead to a reallocation of funds between member states, but the proposal will hit czech farmers the hardest, where subsidies are to be cut by 4.5%. i believe that the cuts should be the same for all member states, regardless of the level of contributions, and that is why i supported all the amendments that went in this direction, regardless of the political group that put them forward. unfortunately, they were not accepted. that is why i did not support the report in the final vote. i believe that czech farmers should have the same conditions as their other european colleagues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy. in this context, i particularly welcome the calls for support for sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and measures to improve the position of consumers in the internal market. i also consider very important the call to the european commission to submit, under the ordinary legislative procedure, a long-awaited proposal to facilitate individual and collective actions for damages for consumers suffered as a result of infringements of eu antitrust law.
mr president, turkey has made tremendous economic progress in the last ten years. it has tripled the size of its economy and has tripled the standard of living for ordinary people. in spite of this progress we see these demonstrations. why? because they show that people do not want just bread and butter, they want freedoms. they want human rights, they want civic rights, they want democracy, they want the rule of law and they want to take part in the decision-making, whether on the future of the park in istanbul or on the future of their country. this is, in my view, a wake-up call for mr erdoğan and the akp. turkey can either take the road to more democracy and europe or can slip into the chaos which is, unfortunately, developing in the middle east. turkey needs a new constitution, not because of the eu, but in the interests of democracy and the development of turkish society and the turkish economy. this process of creating a new constitution should involve not only the ruling party but also the opposition, civil society, journalists, lawyers and anybody who is willing to take part. turkey needs our help in this process also because if we let this very important country slide down on this slippery slope, it will have terrible consequences for us. in order to strengthen the commitment to turkey and the turkish european perspective, we should open chapters 23 and 24, because this is the only way that turkey can hope to move forward. we can help in this process.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, when we talk about a transatlantic partnership, we talk about strong historical, cultural, economic and political links. we talk about shared values, values of human rights, civic rights, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. if we look at today’s world, with 7 billion people in it, we can see the pull of gravity in terms of both economic and political power shifting from the atlantic towards the pacific. it is in our interests, in the interests of the united states and canada, and also in the interests of other atlantic partners – mexico has been mentioned, brazil has been mentioned – that we work together, and that we can shape the world together. this does not mean working against asia, against china or against other partners in the world, but yes, because we have so many strong cultural links and shared values, we have to work more closely together. we, as elected representatives, have regular exchanges of views with our american counterparts but it would also be useful if, for instance, ms ashton and the us secretary of state established the proposed transatlantic political council so that regular, structured and systematic consultation and cooperation on policies can take place. i was talking, or i started to talk, about human rights, civil rights and democracy, and i cannot deny that we are deeply concerned by recent revelations about us surveillance and data-gathering operations under the prism programme. yes, we should fight terrorism whether it is on the european side of the atlantic or the american one, but we should also observe human rights; and we should see to the protection of our citizens’ data. so i would like to ask the commissioner and the commission to request explanations and more information at the earliest possible opportunity, because a situation such as this could threaten human rights, not only in europe but also, as some of our colleagues from both the democratic party and the republican party are saying, in the united states. lastly, congratulations once again to our rapporteur, mr millán mon.
in writing. freedom of the press and media in the world is felt to be one of the important freedoms. the problem, of course, is how to value that freedom. the tables provided by the authors to the report by marietje schaake are a classic example of a very subjective assessment. if reporters without borders ranks the czech republic, where the vast majority of media is in foreign hands, as one of the countries with the highest ratings for press and media freedom in the world press freedom index, then i have to ask what kind of po-federal criteria the rater could have used. the czech press is notorious for its very biased assessments. if i want to know at least a somewhat objective account of the events selected, then although they took place in the middle of europe i can take as a more objective assessment the reports from foreign media. i also understand that some developing countries are doing relatively well, for example papua new guinea and niger are ranked higher than france. the freedom zone table lists iraq as free 1 and unfree 6 on one occasion. it is clear that the foreign intervention that the report recommends cannot be the best support for press freedom. selective support for select media outlets and the acknowledged control of the world's largest servers by the us intelligence community are two facts that call into question the report's value. still, it is important to consider the matter.
i have read today, madam president, in the open information media, a report which perhaps best illustrates what has happened in mali and the extent of the devastation. it's a report that was released by unesco and it talks about the devastation of the historic city of timbuktu, where 15 of the 16 historic tombs that are on the unesco world heritage list were destroyed. thousands of manuscripts were burned, which is, of course, a cultural devastation, but even more serious is the political and economic devastation, which has a much wider reach, which affects the entire region. it is well known that my group is often very reserved about various pan-european solutions. but in this case, i must unequivocally support the involvement of the european union and a pan-european solution. in any event, we will support all steps to ensure the sovereignty, stability, security, unity and territorial integrity of mali. we have already spoken about a national reconciliation, and the role of france, and we have to bring it up again, because even at the bilateral level, someone had to act. i would like to end by once again highlighting the role of the european union's eutm training mission, where my country, the czech republic, has its contingent of about 40 soldiers, so please let's continue to do this and try and be active, because it also concerns our european security.
the author. - mr president, i fully support our resolution calling on the government of azerbaijan to ensure a prompt, independent and fair trial of mr mammadov and his immediate release from detention, unless there are proper legal grounds for doing so. it is entirely appropriate to allow a presidential candidate to participate not only in the presidential election but also in the election campaign. otherwise, the credibility of such elections is shaken. however, i do not think it appropriate for us to adopt resolutions on topics not directly related to mammadov's case in the urgency procedure. issues such as media freedom, the work of ngos, free elections, human rights, the functioning of the oecd office and others are legitimately the subject of regular discussions in the relevant committees and delegations. unfortunately, we have repeatedly witnessed the disinterest of members of the european parliament in such formal meetings. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i am by no means saying that we should not defend and promote human rights, i am suspending myself on this. as the chairman of the delegation, i had to cancel our meeting in baku at the end of april because none of the members of the european parliament, with the exception of one of my colleagues, was willing to go to baku to discuss human rights and their observance. we've postponed the delegation. a year before that, we had a meeting with members of the azerbaijani parliament in brussels. none of the members of the european parliament attended this debate, an hour and a half after it began. these are proper forums where we're supposed to discuss human rights and other issues, not the case of one particular person, even though i don't agree with his imprisonment.
the reporter. mr president, the proposal for a regulation on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles will replace the existing 2000 directive. according to the latest statistics from the european commission, there are currently huge differences in the way roadworthiness tests are carried out in the member states. the proportion of vehicles found not to comply with the technical requirements for vehicle fitness at roadside inspection ranges from 0,2 to 47% in different member states, with large differences also between neighbouring countries. at the same time, the progress and quality of roadworthiness tests vary considerably. some member states apply sophisticated control procedures similar to regular roadworthiness tests, while others carry out visual inspections or only check technical documents, but still meet the minimum requirements of the current directive. the significant differences in the proportion of vehicles that failed to meet the requirements of roadworthiness tests also result from the different approaches taken by the member states. this is why i support the introduction of a risk assessment system at european level. the selection of vehicles to be subject to roadside inspection should be based on the risk profile of operators, thereby reducing the burden on those who maintain their vehicles in a proper technical condition. the same system has been working effectively in the uk for seven years and while, for example, in the czech republic more than 44 000 commercial vehicles over 3,5 tonnes were checked on the roads in 2009/2010 and 790 of these were declared unfit for further use, i.e. less than 2% of all checks, in the uk 154 600 vehicles were checked in the same period but were selected according to the risk profile of the hauliers, of which 30,6% were assessed as unfit for further use. these figures clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of such a system. however, the system should be introduced gradually and flexibility should be ensured in its implementation. i therefore propose that the technical condition data of commercial vehicles from regular technical inspections be recorded in the national vehicle registers for the first three years and that the system then start to work at european level. the system will also be flexible for carriers. it will be able to improve its risk profile through regular technical inspections or voluntary security checks. the results of this check shall then be recorded in the risk profile of the carrier. by using the european register of hauliers for vehicles which are checked in a member state other than the one in which they are registered, hauliers will not be discriminated against on grounds of nationality or country of origin. harmonisation of important elements such as standards for the assessment of deficiencies and the level of knowledge and skills of road-controllers will further contribute to eliminating unequal treatment and increase the overall effectiveness of controls. the proposal also calls on member states to apply european standards in the control of vehicle security costs. our other objective is to contribute to reducing the number of fatal accidents on european roads. the european union has committed itself to halving the number of fatal accidents by 2020. given the increasing number of accidents caused by light commercial vehicles of category n1, for example in 2011, with almost 4 000 fatalities caused by collisions with these vehicles, i consider it important that we also re-include light commercial vehicles in the scope of this regulation. however, this category would not be counted towards the mandatory minimum of 5% of checks in member states per year. this will only apply to heavy goods vehicles. let me conclude with one final remark. the european commission estimates that the package should help reduce the number of deaths on european roads caused by poor vehicle performance by up to 1 100 deaths per year. i would be very happy if we could help achieve this by approving it.
mr president, thank you to the commission and the rapporteurs for a very interesting and necessary proposal. unlike my fellow mps on the route from the ukip and some other freedom fighters, i believe that unification in vehicle inspection is necessary. i think it's important to agree to inspections tomorrow, especially for motorcycles and atvs. the drivers of these vehicles have the lowest chance of survival in the event of an accident. if our goal is to reduce fatalities, then i would caution that the most common cause of fatal accidents is poor driver action, i.e. poor training. the technical condition of the vehicle is secondary. i am, however, very much in favour of the proposal, even though i know that in many cases a vehicle in a bad state of repair is often the only way to get to work during the reduced hours of public transport.
mr president, i too would like to thank the european commission for its efforts to coordinate these safety regulations, technical inspections and road checks. i'm all for increased security, but not for more bureaucratic systems, records, etc. this new risk assessment system does not record specific vehicles which have been found to be defective in the past, but the carriers and thus their entire fleet. i believe that this decline puts the big companies, which operate more vehicles, at a disadvantage. from that point of view, i think we need to make some adjustments. even the systems used in britain, for example, use a more sophisticated system that takes into account the personal element of the driver.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am glad that some of my colleagues have raised the question of cargo security, which i too consider to be extremely serious. we'll vote tomorrow on whether or not to include n1 vehicles. however, let me thank the other colleagues, the rapporteurs and, of course, the shadow rapporteurs for their really constructive and good cooperation in preparing this package. i am convinced that we have fully committed ourselves to the result of our joint efforts being a truly consistent package based on a single foundation. like my colleague kuhn, i look forward to working with the lithuanian presidency to approve the final version of the roadmap and i believe, as many colleagues have said, that road safety and reducing accidents on european roads will continue to be one of our priorities in the transport sector.
for the s&d group. mr president, in 2012, 28 000 people were killed and more than 250 000 seriously injured in road accidents in europe. one in ten injuries is rated as serious. this is why the european parliament, in its resolution on european road safety 2011-2020, called on the commission to present concrete measures to reduce serious injuries in road accidents by the end of 2011. we called for a targeting based on a uniform definition of serious injury. i am pleased that the commission presented a working document in march this year entitled 'towards a single strategy on serious injuries', which was preceded by the establishment of a common definition of serious injuries based on the mais scoring system and the adoption of the single european statistics by the member states in january this year. last month, the commission presented a long-awaited proposal to introduce the 112-based ecall safety system in all new vehicles from 2015. this important, albeit partial, measure is one i definitely welcome. however, now is the time to set a concrete target for reducing serious injuries on european roads and the concrete measures to achieve it. in line with the european parliament's report, it should be a reduction of 40% in serious injuries by 2020. that is why i ask today: does the commission share this objective? when and what measures does the commission plan to take, in particular to target the most vulnerable road users in urban areas?pre-hospital care, including lay first aid at the scene of an accident, is also a very important area. how does the commission intend to promote the improvement of knowledge of first aid for road accident victims among citizens of the european union? there are a lot of other questions. these are just some of them. our common goal should not only be to prevent serious injuries but also to improve the quality of life of those who have suffered such injuries and whose lives, including their loved ones, have been changed overnight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. awareness of the environmental impact of medicines has increased significantly in recent years and, therefore, the commission proposed, on the basis of the latest scientific evidence, to include three pharmaceutical substances in the 15 new priority substances for water policy in 2012: the natural hormone 17β-estradiol and the synthetic hormone 17α-ethinylestradiol, both of which have endocrine disrupting properties, and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac. this is the first time that a medicinal product has been included in the list of priority substances considered hazardous to the aquatic environment. the commission proposal did not question their therapeutic effects, but only focused on the potentially harmful effects of their presence in the aquatic environment. however, the european parliament and the member states decided to move these three medicines only to the watchlist of emerging pollutants, and not to the priority list as proposed by the commission. this is a very unsatisfactory result, especially in the context of the ever-growing threat of so-called endocrine disruptors in the environment and their impact on human health. water pollution is also one of the biggest environmental problems for eu citizens. according to a march 2012 eurobarometer survey, 68% of europeans believe that water quality and quantity problems are serious, and 80% of citizens believe that chemical pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the eu’s external aviation policy – addressing future challenges (2012/2299(ini)) (a7-0172/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013.
the next item is the report by spyros danellis, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on blue growth: enhancing sustainable growth in the eu’s marine, maritime transport and tourism sectors (com(2012)0491 – 2012/2297(ini)) (a7-0209/2013).
in writing. − i am personally open to the creation of a new type of legal entity, which the european foundation should be. this is despite our experience with other european company law forms. they are not satisfactory, especially as regards their minimum applicability. i am aware that the usefulness of the legal form of a company cannot be compared with that of a european foundation. each of these forms has a completely different purpose to fulfill. moreover, in the area of company law, there has been relatively broad harmonisation in recent years, which makes it possible to address possible obstacles in the cross-border activities of these entities. however, the situation is quite different in the area of foundation law. the foundation is still governed exclusively by national legislation, and this area of law has not been affected by harmonisation at all. as an increasing number of foundations operate in an international regime and thus find themselves in a situation where they are forced to deal with cross-border obstacles in the internal market, i see the proposal for a statute for a european foundation as a transnational alternative to national regimes. it is also a safeguard against unnecessary harmonisation of the laws of the member states. however, i see a problem in the current position of parliament, which, by introducing a number of amendments, makes it difficult to achieve the unanimity in the council needed to adopt this regulation. that is why i abstained from voting on the report.
we are slowly getting used to the fact that natural disasters, in our case floods, are becoming more frequent and unfortunately recurrent. but we should respond to these events with a systemic solution. i would therefore like to stress two things on behalf of the ecr. first, the union's instrument for mitigating the impact of disasters on member states, the european union solidarity fund, is highly inoperative. decisions take months, and help usually doesn't arrive until a year after the disaster. this is certainly a subject which we should address in the revision of the relevant regulation. unfortunately, this change has been blocked by the council for a long time. secondly, it is clear that natural disasters have a negative impact on public budgets and on the ability to use european funds in a meaningful way. if we're dealing with flood damage, it's hard to write projects or account for grants. i would like to ask the commission to look for ways of giving the affected countries sufficient flexibility in the use of european funds so that they do not lose the resources they have been promised.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the recent floods have reminded us that the quality of life in modern society is determined by the management of public goods, and i would therefore like to warn against attempts to use the floods to attack the remnants of the welfare state. as milton friedman called for in the wake of hurricane katrina in the united states, when he said that while it was a human tragedy, it was also a great business opportunity. and he called for public schools to be turned into private schools, public hospitals to be turned into private hospitals, public transportation to be replaced by private transportation. and that's what really happened in the united states. i think that attempts to exploit the recent disasters in the member states of the european union in this direction will come, and we in the czech republic have already noted such views.
madam president, central europe, including my own country, the czech republic, has been hit by floods on several occasions over the last 15 years. a solidarity fund was set up in 2002. this solidarity fund has been used, if i am not mistaken, in 52 cases already, hundreds of millions of euros have been distributed. i would like to thank the czech citizens who have received this help in the past and who will receive it now. but what i would like to stress, as my colleagues have done, is that the rules need to be developed, changed, so that they are simpler, so that the solidarity fund, for example, allows for advance payments. and the second thing i want to emphasize, which has already happened here, is that natural disasters, whether it's floods, fires, god forbid, earthquakes, they know no bounds. so, in turn, much stronger cross-border cooperation is needed in the event of floods, whether it's flood prevention, flood control, etc.
in recent years, the countries of central europe have been experiencing a period of heavy rainfall. these often cause very dramatic floods. floods threaten not only human lives but also cause enormous material damage in densely populated europe. this is why the need for increased flood protection and the need to help people affected by floods has increased recently. these people need to overcome the effects of the flood and start a new life at the same time. there is a great need for help from many levels, not just from the national level but also from the european union. so that people know that they are not alone in these huge disasters and their problems will be addressed in a much broader context with the hope that adequate measures will be taken in the future. these floods are not the concern of one member state and very good cooperation at european level is also needed to combat floods. for these reasons, i am convinced that the european solidarity fund must be mobilised swiftly to fulfil its mission.
madam president, this year's floods have hit the whole of central europe hard. in my country alone, the czech republic, tens of billions of crowns will surely be stopped. but the worst part is that 11 of my fellow citizens will never be able to repay us. at the last summit, europe succeeded in pushing for the maximum mobilisation of all available european funds to support the affected areas. and an important factor, as several speakers have pointed out, is time. a quickie is a double. in europe we can be solidary, we can provide effective aid. this is of course a test of cooperation between all the institutions and i think it is appropriate to consider flood prevention measures and their co-financing from european funds in the future. we should therefore take the path of maximum support for the prevention of natural disasters in europe and make this one of the priorities of the structural funds in the next programming period.
in writing. the solidarity fund was set up in 2002 in response to the catastrophic floods of 2002 and has since become a symbol of solidarity in the european union. since its inception, it has helped a number of countries affected by natural disasters. but european solidarity must not be threatened by the ideology of cuts by european governments which unfortunately accompanies the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and which could make the solidarity fund itself a victim. that would be a very bad signal for the eu and its citizens who are waiting for help. i therefore support the resolution in which the european parliament calls for the european solidarity fund to be mobilised to finance the flood damage in central europe this year. at the same time, of course, i agree with the requirement that the commission should make available any funds to member states in need in a much faster and more flexible manner.
for the ecr group. mr president, if mr lamberts were to finish halfway through his speech, i would say that i have nothing to add and can devote some more of my time to him, because the european conservatives, for precisely the reasons you mentioned to mr lamberts, are opposed to the introduction of a financial transaction tax. no tax in economic history has ever helped economic growth. if you think that the introduction of this tax will help the dying european economy, then you are deeply mistaken. we reject the idea that financial institutions and banks should be punished in this way for their actions. we are not advocating the wrong decisions of bank managers, but we are arguing in the long term that the long-term indebtedness of the member states and their governments is the cause of the current problems, and if this behaviour does not change, then any tax introduced will not help.
in writing. the global financial crisis has shown that the instability of financial markets can destabilise economies around the world. the financial sector remains highly profitable and has a tax advantage over other sectors of the real economy (e.g. no vat is payable on financial services). high volatility in markets is often caused by speculators seeking their own short-term gain at the expense of the economy and society as a whole. the privatization of the profits of financial institutions, the socialization of losses at the expense of citizens, all of this must end. we had a similar experience in the czech republic about 20 years ago, when state property was mined under the government of prime minister václav klaus. one way is to introduce a financial transaction tax (ftt), which will bring its positives: harmonisation of financial taxes in the single market, additional contribution of financial institutions to the costs of the crisis and reduction of incentives for speculative transactions. the whole concept of ftt would, in my view, benefit from being introduced at a global level, but this will only be difficult to achieve. i regret that the czech government has not joined the ftt support. her notorious euroscepticism and incompetence were and are widely known. the recent resignation of the czech government and prime minister petr nečas is a positive development. i firmly believe that the new left government will have a better attitude on the issue. overall, i believe that the introduction of the ftt will be beneficial and therefore i am voting in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs anni podimaty.
the newswoman. - mr president, i am pleased to be able to open the debate on the integrated internal control framework for the management of european funds at this plenary session. this is a very technical and complex subject, but one fundamental question still remains: why has the commission not received a positive statement of assurance on the accounts? we have dealt with this subject in detail in the committee on budgetary control at the hearing on 22 april this year. we have examined in particular whether the commission's action plan, which was intended to obtain a positive statement of assurance for the accounts, failed or whether this was due to a misconception of the overall framework of the action plan or its implementation. we have concluded that the criteria set out in the 2005 action plan cannot be effectively implemented at present. i welcome the view shared by my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control that these criteria need to be revised. it is therefore necessary to examine whether the european commission's control of accounts and management is properly set up. the commission started to focus on improving the internal control framework with the adoption of the action plan in 2005, because the court had drawn its attention to the high level of error. the error rate is still high every year. the situation is currently such that the commission has not received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors for the 18th consecutive year. a problem that contributes to this is that the commission cannot rely on data from the member states. the results of the court's inquiry show that the number of programmes affected by errors was higher than the number reported by the member states. for example, 62% of errors in the european regional development fund were identified and corrected by the member states themselves, and 76% of errors in the european social fund. the commission and the court must therefore put pressure on the member states to take responsibility for their accounts. this also means that the political representation responsible for managing the european funds will sign off on these data. the level of the acceptable error rate of 2% is clearly debatable. i believe that this value does not take into account the different risk profiles of the policies and that not all eu policies can fall below this threshold. however, more important than the level of the acceptable error rate itself is the way in which the commission manages the funds. so i think we should not be looking for a positive statement of accounting reliability, which is defined by an imaginary margin of error, but we should be looking for a systematic reduction of error. it appears that the linking of the positive statement of assurance to the single audit system, which was also the subject of considerable discussion in the committee on budgetary control, has not yet been successfully implemented. no agreement was reached with the member states on the national declarations, nor on the templates for the control system. the one-stop audit doesn't work because one chain auditor can't rely on another. efforts should also be made to prevent and correct errors by those implementing programmes at regional level. this is also linked to the fact that we should simplify the rules, for example for public procurement. too complicated rules lead to mistakes and fraudulent behavior. i believe that the commission's 2005 action plan is not achievable in the current situation. we need to find other ways, and i hope that this discussion... (the president withdrew)
the newswoman. - mr president, first of all, of course, i would like to thank you very much for all your contributions and i just want to emphasise one thing again. i said at the beginning that this is a very complex issue, one that cannot be solved quickly, because we are talking about the commission's 2005 action plan. on the other hand, i totally accept the comments that we cannot start from scratch every time. i think that's very well said. that is why the report is designed, if possible, to be as consensual as possible, so as to really start the debate on the whole question of changing the system, as i have already said. in other words, the accounting approach to the statement of assurance needs to be combined with the performance approach. it was also said by your colleague, the chairman of the committee on budgetary control. it's in the report, too. i think that's the idea that runs through the message. i would also like to comment on mr geier's colleague, who is no longer here. however, i accept, or respect, that the socialist group has tabled two amendments which, in fact, have not been accepted in the motion tabled by me. however, i think that my report has emphasized enough what we think about the declaration of credibility and i think that is enough.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done in preparing this document. in principle, this involves setting up prevention measures against the spread of serious diseases and setting minimum standards for specific situations. we're talking about major events, like deadly infections. the document mentions the recently discussed early warning system, which, as you may recall, was tested by czech experience in the so-called methyl alcohol case. the report as a whole focuses on increasing the availability of vaccines for eu citizens. at the same time, the purchase of a potential asset is not an obligation for the member states but an option. when it comes to the transfer of personal data, it is always necessary to consider which risk is greater. whether it's protecting personal data or preventing the spread of a pandemic. as a doctor, i recommend that you support the text.
mr president, i would like to address the president-in-office and say: ‘welcome and let me congratulate you and your country on the achievements of your country since independence, and also what you are achieving now.’ as we have already mentioned, your country is growing economically and unemployment is going down – which is quite rare in the current economic environment. i want to talk about one of your priorities, and that is the eastern partnership. your country borders countries such as belarus, ukraine and other eastern neighbours. your county, your administration, has the expertise and the knowledge of the region. particularly in this priority area, we all wish that you succeed because it is in our interest that we move forward with the economic integration of our neighbourhood and that we move forward with the political associations with those countries which wish that. you will have the full support of the s&d group. we are working hard in those countries to remove some of the last hurdles we have before the vilnius summit so that we can sign the association partnership with ukraine and we can initiate the same agreement with countries such as moldova, georgia or armenia. we also hope that we will make progress on a country which sometimes we consider very difficult, and that is belarus.
in writing. today's vote on the resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff) shows that the european parliament recognises the compromise negotiated on 27 june between the european council, the european commission and the european parliament. i welcome the fact that the key priorities included in the compromise are investing in growth and fighting youth unemployment. i consider this priority, which was also insisted on by the s-d group, to be essential and that is why i supported this resolution. however, i emphasize the payment of the unpaid payments of the past years of 11.2 billion euros. that's a condition of the final vfr agreement.
in writing. − i see the ets as one of the main pillars of eu climate policy. postponing the issuance of part of the allowances is not a real solution to the emissions trading problems. but it paves the way for the fundamental reform that awaits us in the coming years. it will help to temporarily correct the imbalance in the market caused by the surplus of allowances and the dramatic fall in their prices. moreover, polluters are forced to invest part of the proceeds from their sale in innovative technologies. but most importantly - the system helps to reduce air pollution, which is a very pressing problem in our region, moravia-silesia. i therefore support the report by mr matthias groote.
in writing. i consider it very important to extend the 1988 early warning and response system and to adapt it to the current serious crossborder health threats. in particular, the european union as a whole must be prepared to respond to ever-new cross-border health threats, such as the recent h1n1 influenza pandemic in 2010, the volcanic dust crisis in 2010, e. coli in 2011 or the fukushima nuclear accident in 2011. contrary to the commission's original proposal, i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr gilles pargneux, that the threat of exposure to ionising radiation must be included in this system. given the scale of serious cross-border threats, the european union needs to cooperate closely with the world health organisation and with third countries, in particular in the area of communication with those countries. i consider it a success that the rapporteur, in negotiations with the council and the commission, has managed to agree that the european union can introduce a mechanism for the own production of vaccines and medicines in emergency situations. this measure will allow fairer and cheaper access to vaccination, which is often crucial for some member states in the event of serious health threats. i therefore welcome and support the report.
for the ecr group. madam president, in connection with the subject under discussion, i would like to draw attention to a problem that is not limited to czech exporters in the long term. since the czech republic has no sea, exports of our weapons to third countries can be carried out by air or, more economically, by ship through the ports of other member states, especially poland and germany. however, germany and poland impose the need for additional approval for arms transfers, thus de facto ignoring export licences issued by the country of origin. the additional licences are, to my knowledge, politically motivated decisions, which result in frequent and deliberate delay of the whole process or in no licence at all. since the cost of air transport is many times higher than that of shipping, our companies become uncompetitive and suffer significant economic damage. it is a high-value-added field with a long tradition in our country and directly or indirectly employs tens of thousands of highly qualified people. ladies and gentlemen, i find it unacceptable that inland states are discriminated against in the european union in the export of arms. i therefore ask the european institutions to start looking at this problem with a keen eye and, above all, to check whether the need for additional authorisation is in line with the principle of proportionality, that is to say, whether, by reference to article 36 tfeu, the movement of goods is not restricted more than is strictly necessary.
mr president, the development of the digital single market is essential to increase the competitiveness of the european union countries in global world markets. different prices for data services, uneven coverage and high-speed internet connections and the complexity of connectivity of digital services are a significant barrier to the functioning of the digital single market. the huge increase in data transport requirements will only increase with the development of 'cloud' systems. for these reasons, the accelerated development of high-speed internet as a basic infrastructure is really important. the member states should seek to find common solutions to these problems. i am convinced that the implementation of broadband internet in the largest possible area of europe is a crucial condition for a true digital single market. the connecting europe facility's high-speed internet programme, where i am the rapporteur for the programme, should also help.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. i share the rapporteur's view that access to health care is generally deteriorating, particularly or inter alia in the area of vulnerable groups: young people, the elderly, the poor and immigrants. i share your concern that the situation will not improve. i do not agree with the proposed solution. the european union has no responsibility for health in individual member states and should therefore support member states in implementing reforms, supporting them in improving their economic situation in particular, rather than giving them a mandate. if we don't create resources, we can't redistribute them, either for the benefit of the vulnerable or for the benefit of anyone else. the reasons are economic, the reasons are also in the structure of the provision of health care. our population is ageing and member countries have to respond to this, and many countries have not yet implemented reforms. the solution is not to declare the rights of citizens, not to forbid countries from cutting back and forcing them into more debt, not to monitor them better or draft recommendations and give them homework. the solution lies in economic prosperity and health care reform.
for the s&d group. i do indeed consider the european emergency number 112 to be one of the most important european initiatives to increase the safety of citizens. 112 is available free of charge to anyone calling in the event of danger or emergency, anywhere in the eu. although the pan-european hotline enjoys an anchorage in the eu legal framework, despite the undeniable benefits it brings to citizens, there are still obstacles to its use and enforcement. we've heard that before. the problem is the lack of implementation of the 2009 directive by the member states and the commission's progress in its implementation. i would like to mention two specific aspects. one of them was mentioned by mrs. hall. although article 26 of the directive guarantees equal access to 112 for citizens with disabilities, at the beginning of 2013 the possibility to call the emergency number other than by voice was only available in 12 member states. millions of disabled people are thus denied access to this service. the second aspect, as rapporteur for the european parliament for the introduction of the e-call system for automatically calling for help in the event of a vehicle accident i must also point out that the e-call, which the commission proposes to be operational from 2015 throughout the european union and in other countries, is directly dependent on the proper functioning of the european emergency number 112. i am therefore interested to know how the commission intends to support the creation of the necessary functioning public infrastructure to receive and handle emergency calls properly in the context of e-call.
i consider a single emergency hotline throughout the european union to be very important. the existing single european emergency number 112 should be routinely accessible to all citizens. it is therefore important that every citizen knows where to turn in an emergency. at a time when seconds and lives are at stake, a citizen visiting another eu country should not have to think about where to turn in an emergency. it is therefore necessary to continue informing citizens about this line and to set up the technical conditions so that citizens can use 112 everywhere and without technical problems, including citizens with disabilities.
in writing. - the last 50 years of the last century belonged to television. the first decade of the new millennium was dominated by the internet, and the last three years by the media-driven world of mobile devices. this situation demonstrates the accelerating dynamics of the media sector. as we are discussing the report on hybrid tvs today, i would like to point out that the dynamics of developments in this area is the main limiting factor in this report. i would personally prefer that the european parliament did not try to moderate technological developments. it's still in the hands of the market and supply and demand. the audiovisual and media services directive has been in force for three years and it is already clear in the context of technological developments that technological developments have significantly outpaced the legislation. in the context of the issues under discussion, i would like to warn against the hasty adoption of further legislation and attempts to regulate more content distributed via the internet under the pretext of spreading the good and protecting vulnerable groups of the population. the internet was created as a free space and a counterweight to the classical linear media. to come up with a regulation just because it can be accessed through television, i consider it very dangerous. another issue is the role of the media as a public service. extending their scope beyond the traditional linear service to the internet and internet applications can significantly distort competition and run counter to the rules on the granting of public aid.
the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, the european union's agricultural policy and the union's efforts to replace mineral fuels with so-called biofuels, which we interpret as part of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. these are the main topics discussed in corinne lepage's report. the gue group in the transport committee is particularly concerned with the priority use of arable land for growing food crops, and we want to protect this land while promoting the use of agricultural and food waste for the production of fuels, so-called second generation biofuels. the same principle must be upheld inside and outside the european union. the main greenhouse gas savings, of course, are in reducing fuel and energy consumption across all sectors of the economy and in reducing the transportation burden of our civilization. let us be kind to the food resources and to the environment and to the people in the third world.
in writing. the renewable energy directive sets a target of 20% of energy from renewable sources in eu energy consumption. the use of biofuels should contribute to the achievement of the objective. but the first generation biofuel could not do that, because it was too unpredictable and missed a significant part of the side effects. the cultivation of biofuels has led to massive land grabbing at the expense of food production. allowing wind farms to be built on farmland has also damaged the climate. it is necessary to learn from and incorporate more conditions for growing biofuels and to take into account the impact of secondary factors such as indirect land use change. i welcome the commission's proposal to speed up the transition to modern biofuels from waste. biological waste must be used. i call for the inclusion of the need for sorting and subsequent treatment of biological waste in the eu. the huge energy potential ends up in landfills and the fields are being used to grow other crops for biofuels. but i am strongly opposed to the use of forest biomass for energy. scientific research shows that the use of wood does not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. forests and woodlands must be preserved as carbon sinks and natural climate-protection aids. i fully support the rapporteur's position. if we are to preserve our world for future generations, we must significantly reduce logging in europe and increase the protection of forests and forestry.
in writing. in 2008, the european parliament made a clear case for including an indirect land-use change factor in the greenhouse gas emission reduction calculation for biofuels. it was already clear at the time that supporting biofuels could contribute to the taking up of large areas of agricultural land outside the eu, deforestation and the destruction of precious ecosystems. independent studies have confirmed that indirect land change is real and that it can increase the carbon footprint of biofuels to the point where they have a worse carbon footprint than some traditional fossil fuels. it is therefore crucial that the indirect land use change factor is incorporated into eu legislation this time. it is also necessary to take into account the investments made by the first generation biofuel companies in order to ensure their return, the maintenance of employment and the functioning of these companies. however, even the largest czech processor of rapeseed and producer of products from this raw material pointed out that there should be no threat to existing production, but only that it should not increase. this is certainly good news not only for the czech republic, where rape covers some 1,400,000 acres [400,000 ha]. i support the rapporteur and the compromise reached in the committee on the environment and i firmly believe that we will not see the european union repeatedly ignoring the negative consequences of its climate policy.
mr president, the internal energy market is not currently meeting consumers' expectations, whether in terms of prices, quality of service or consumer protection. i therefore welcome the fact that the report stresses the need to create a functioning energy market at european level, directed directly to the final consumer. i see as positive in this respect, in particular, proposals to simplify conditions, allowing consumers to compare tariffs and choose the most advantageous supplier, or measures to save energy for households. experience from some countries shows that collective switching, i.e. the collective negotiation of lower tariffs, can also be beneficial. unfortunately, the report does not include one of my amendments, namely the possibility of withdrawing from an existing contract without risking binding contractual penalties, which would strengthen the position of the most vulnerable consumers. energy poverty is unfortunately a reality in europe.
in writing. women still earn less than men for the same work and the same qualifications, regardless of their education. the eu average is around 17.5%. the situation in the czech republic is even worse. according to the czech statistical office, women received 19% less pay than men in 2010. stereotypes about so-called 'male' and 'female' professions still persist. solutions are already being offered in primary schools, where work should be done to eliminate prejudice, to encourage children's talent, regardless of gender. for example, girls should be more motivated to work in technical professions or boys to work in social services. i am not in favour of women working in jobs such as mining or men working as nurses, but i do not accept that there should be any difference in average wages in jobs which are equally suitable for both sexes, and these are the vast majority.
mr. chairman, i think it's quite obvious, and this debate shows that a client who comes to a bank to get a mortgage should be given all the information he needs to have. the term "custodian" means any natural or legal person, entity or body that is the ultimate receiver of payment services, including payment service providers, and is responsible for payment services. on the other hand, you should know that a mortgage is not a loan for a color tv. that a mortgage is a long-term commitment, that a mortgage is a financial product that is standard in the financial market, there's nothing shameful about it. and if banks or financial institutions provide mortgages, then they have the right to ask adequate questions to their potential clients. they're supposed to find out if their clients are able to meet their long-term commitments, if they overestimated their strengths at the beginning. i think one of my speakers was right that if politics starts interfering too much in this market, if politics starts affecting this segment too much, then it can only be for the bad, for the worse. the granting of a mortgage should not be influenced by political decisions.
in writing. − i am convinced that the commission is not sufficiently monitoring the implementation of eu energy legislation, especially the respect of consumer rights. it should also be more active in relation to network operators, national regulatory authorities and competition and state aid rules. it should also make greater efforts to limit the phenomenon of 'circular flows' that occurs in the internal electricity market. it is a problem for the internal energy market, since it affects the security of the energy system by limiting storage and network capacity. the commission and the member states should better coordinate infrastructure-related projects and jointly plan network development, ensuring full interconnection and cost-effectiveness of networks across the eu, by benefiting from cross-border synergies and more efficient energy infrastructure networks. an integration-based approach involving distribution system operators should be promoted. the commission and the member states should ensure the rapid approval and implementation of projects for cross-border interconnection of electricity and gas transmission systems, including back-flows, lng and energy storage infrastructure and smart transmission and transport networks.
in writing. i believe that efforts to raise funds for energy efficiency investment projects often run into obstacles created by the market, legislation or uncertainties such as high initial costs on the part of investors and the difficulty of predicting the exact potential for energy savings. it is in particular for member states to find appropriate ways to encourage investment in energy efficiency improvements in households. i appreciate that the commission supports the increased role of new and innovative financial instruments in the 2014-2020 programming period, but their delayed implementation and legal uncertainties pose a significant problem for the member states and other stakeholders involved in the management of these instruments. the commission should therefore submit without delay proposals for available standardised financial instruments to support energy efficiency measures. i support any solution based on the use of european structural and investment funds, complemented by additional sources of private sector funding.
in writing. in order to ensure a reasonable regulation of online gambling in the internal market, i consider it important to introduce a single pan-european common security standard for electronic identification and for cross-border electronic authentication services. the proposal for a directive on electronic identification, which will allow for the interoperability of any national electronic identification systems, could contribute to this. in this context, registration and identification procedures should be simplified and streamlined in order to prevent players from using multiple accounts and minors from accessing online gambling sites. member states should consider establishing white and blacklists of illegal online gambling sites, defining secure and traceable payment procedures and implementing transaction blocking measures to protect consumers from illegal operators.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on online gambling in the internal market as a balanced response to the commission's forthcoming action plan setting out common eu priorities in the field of online gambling. online gambling is one of the fastest growing sectors in the eu. almost 2% of the european population is affected by gambling addiction and easy access to the internet and the absence of common rules can be expected to increase this percentage, especially among young people. i therefore particularly welcome the proposed measures to protect consumers, and in particular vulnerable consumers, and their health from the negative effects of online gambling. i consider important, for example, the proposals concerning the verification of the identity and age of the player. another area that needs to be addressed together at european level is gambling advertising, which must be socially responsible, contain minimum standards ensuring adequate protection of vulnerable consumers, contain clear information on the consequences of pathological gambling and must not create the false impression that gambling is a reasonable strategy to improve one's financial situation.
the explanation of vote is over.
we have been dealing with the budgetary emergency in which the european union finds itself for practically the whole of this year. as we all know, we are supposed to operate on a balanced budget. but already last year and this year we have a de facto budget deficit and it must be resolved. the reasons why the union has run a deficit in its budgetary management are, in my view, twofold. the first is the objective fact that we are at the end of the budgetary perspective, and the states are now finishing their projects and their financing. this is unpleasant, but quite logical, and it should lead us to think about how to set the conditions for the next period between 2014 and 2020 so that a similar situation does not happen again. but the second reason is also the mismanagement of the budget by the european commission. why has the commission not addressed the growing budgetary difficulties earlier and why have we only had them on the table in recent months? now, we have to deal with this situation, and the solution is not easy. i have already pointed out on several occasions that sound budgetary management is one of the key conditions for the stability of the union. without prudent budgetary management, it is impossible to restore confidence in the future of the european economy, and the current economic situation, as we all know, is quite difficult. it is therefore our duty to seek and find a compromise that will avert the threat of budgetary provisional measures.
mr president, allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr rohde, for the excellent work he has done in preparing this resolution. i agree that, in cooperation with the other shadow rapporteurs, a balanced compromise has been found and that our resolution contains a number of important points relating to the 'digital agenda' which the european council should take into account. the joint work on this resolution only shows the importance we all attach to the development of information technology to increase economic growth in europe. information technology is truly the key to success in today's global competition. as rapporteur for the cefu's telecommunications section, i would like to focus on the issue of high-speed internet. the danger that europe may be left behind is clear. therefore, we need to further accelerate ict development and increase investment in this area. this will require the mobilisation of other public resources in view of the limited budget of the cef. the cef should play an important role in this respect, thanks to the mechanism for selecting the projects to be supported. the focus of investments in high-speed and super-high-speed networks must, however, remain in the private sector. our job is to create a predictable regulatory environment here. it seems that in order to stimulate the telecommunications market, some steps need to be taken, but they must be taken very carefully, regulated where necessary and for the good of the cause.
commissioner, the important report by mrs corazza bildt on the application of the services directive focuses on its positive contribution to stimulating the european economy. it shall pay particular attention to removing obstacles and reducing administrative burdens. and i am also glad that the commissioner has mentioned in his speech today the problem of discrimination against consumers on grounds of nationality or place of residence, because that is what is happening in practice. this is also one of the things that undermine the confidence of european citizens in the internal market. but no less important, when we talk about the internal market, is its social dimension, that is, the impact on the lives of the people concerned, on their quality of life, which inevitably includes decent working conditions for those who create the internal market. whether it's social protection, safety or health at work. i am in full agreement with my colleagues, our shadow rapporteur, mrs rapti, and others who have spoken on this subject, and i am glad to hear from you, commissioner.
madam president, i too would like to say that our next revision of the rules of the single customs code is a truly modern instrument for completing the internal market. in addition, it will reduce bureaucracy, allow a number of issues to be handled, electronically unify the information system. they shall enable traders to communicate from their place of business, even if the imported goods are stored with the customs authorities of another member state. honest and verified traders who meet the conditions for registration will then even have faster and easier import of goods, which will further reduce prices for the final consumer. but most importantly, the system will free up customs officers' capacity to look more closely at suspicious goods from unreliable importers. on the other hand, the code sets binding time limits for the control authorities to examine the goods. of course, these and other simplifications of procedures will also be appreciated by smes. thank you for the great standard.
blue-card question. – firstly, i agree with mr verhofstadt that the crisis is not over. we are facing the second stage of the crisis. what we need to overcome the crisis is a pioneering spirit and i agree with mr verhofstadt that we cannot see any pioneering spirit in the framework of the commission. instead we only see routine, the old ways of solving the problem, but in this case the commission is not the solution to the problem but part of the problem. in the czech republic we will soon be having elections. in 2004, 74% of the population were in favour of involvement in the european union but now, in the most recent poll the same number, 74%, were against involvement in the european union. please could you speak about this problem of the lack of confidence... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr barroso, i elected you in 2004 because you had a reputation as a reformer. in 2009, i no longer believed you were a reformer, but i voted for you anyway to prove that our group ecr can behave constructively. believe me, if you ran for a third term, which you won't, i wouldn't vote for you. and your speech today is just proof of that, it just confirmed it to me. i won't bother you, mr. chairman, i think that was the most utterly weakest speech you've ever made in this house, in this room. but what was much more interesting was what came next, much more interesting were the reactions from the different groups, from the populists, from the socialists, from the liberals, from the greens. the helplessness and the despair that was coming out of it. it would be almost ridiculous if it were not also tragic that neither of these groups knows how to respond to everything that is wrong with the european union today. you have all built a glass tower, and now cracks are beginning to appear, and none of you knows what to do with it, and all of you are just saying 'more europe, more europe' over and over again, and you are being terrorized by euroscepticism. so i don't know what exactly euroscepticism is, but i do know that the number of people in europe who are critical of the current state of the european union is growing. and being critical of some aspects of the european union does not make you a eurosceptic. it doesn't mean you want to destroy the structure, it means you want to improve it. but that can't happen as long as there are people like you sitting here. ladies and gentlemen, i'm telling you, unfortunately, you are all completely out of it, completely out of it. and fortunately, the election next year will be one where there are fewer and fewer people like you here, and more and more people like us here, and that will continue until we can change the paradigm of european integration in some sensible direction. i'm looking forward to it, ladies and gentlemen. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to michael theurer's question by raising the blue card. mr theurer, i would agree with you that there are european governments that are irresponsible, that have lived on debt, that have spent more than they could, and that have ruined their own budgets and ruined their own economies. but i do not believe that it is possible to devise a european solution which is imposed on these countries from above, from the green table, as a violent, unnatural thing. look at what this leads to, look at the mood that's arising in, say, greece. and look at the mood in germany. these are the moods that are provoked by unnatural, artificial pan-european solutions that the citizens of neither of these countries are able to accept.
in writing. − the eu's biofuels policy is currently failing to meet its fundamental objective of reducing co2 emissions from european transport. instead, it leads to further deforestation in developing countries, to the taking of land that could be used to grow food for the local population, and as a result, it increases hunger and poverty. that is why i voted for the amendment of the existing legislation to help avoid these negative consequences. i am pleased that a sensible compromise has been found to set a ceiling of 6% for first-generation biofuels in the 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020. such reductions will not jeopardise existing investments, avoid unintended support for polluting biofuels and distort world food prices, and at the same time ensure adequate environmental protection. i believe that this legislative change will also encourage the emergence of innovative and less polluting biofuels (so-called second and third generation) that do not directly compete with food crops in terms of land use. that is why i voted for the report by mrs lepage.
in writing. the eu has a registered youth unemployment rate of 23% (5.5 million). in germany or austria, the problem is being tackled effectively. we could learn from these countries. unemployment is associated with social exclusion and, in young people, often with delay in starting a family. it also affects our society demographically. for many years, a system has been in place to promote employment for qualified young people, but it is limited to the under-25 age group. i propose to raise the age limit to a minimum of 30 years. the bureaucratic limitation and denial of assistance is particularly severe for those seeking work after their studies through support programmes. but the growing problem is the group of neets, those who are not in employment, education or training. these people have absolutely no prospects, and in some states they often engage in criminal activity to make a living. it is essential to give them increased attention and to seek their social integration through at least part-time work or community service. i welcome support for the selfemployment system because it provides a livelihood for those who are very interested in work, regardless of whether the employer will take them on. the report is useful for the issue at hand. i fully support her acceptance.
in writing. i appreciate the final form of the report, especially since the european economy is 70% services-based. after four years of hot potatoes, the european parliament has finally admitted that only full liberalisation of the services market can ensure economic growth throughout the union. if the european union is to enjoy even the most elementary trust of its citizens, it must convince them of the benefits it brings to their daily lives. the completion of the internal market in services is such an opportunity. the elimination of safeguard measures, double burdens and discriminatory practices based on nationality and place of residence, which clearly display attributes of discrimination against consumers based on the model of first and second class citizens, is a major task for the european commission. if the european commission fails to enforce the services directive and continues to ignore the discriminatory and protectionist behaviour of some member states, it will be very difficult to defend the meaning and benefits of european integration to the citizens of the discriminated states.
mr president, there has been civil war in syria for the last two years. as a result of that civil war we have 100 000 deaths, two million refugees outside of syria, more than four million people who are internally displaced. on 21 august, chemical weapons were used. these are the three aspects we have to deal with. as regards the chemical weapons and their use, in my group we fully support the move by baroness ashton and the solution she has proposed. at the end, yes, syria should place all its chemical weapons under international control and sign the international treaty. as far as the civil war is concerned, i am also afraid there is no military solution to that conflict because this is not a case of the bad guy who is in power fighting freedom fighters of some kind: the free syrian army, a united opposition. that is, unfortunately, not the case. we have to deal with hundreds of groups which are fighting assad. some of the groups do not share our values, to put it mildly. in other words yes, there have to be political and diplomatic solutions. as has been mentioned already, yes, all relevant actors should be involved, including the major players in the region, including iran. and as far as the refugees are concerned we should engage the international community, not only the eu but also our friends in the united states and our friends in the arab countries.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, when we talk about belarus, we are talking about a country which has political prisoners, which suppresses human rights and which isolates itself from the european union. this is true, but there is also another belarus. when you go to minsk and meet belarusian people, especially young people, they want as much contact with us as possible. they would like to come here, to see the fees for visas reduced, to study at our universities and to have the same standard and style of living with the freedoms we enjoy. it is our moral duty to help those people, and that is exactly what this report is about. we do not deny that there are political prisoners, and we want the release of those prisoners, but it is also time to look in a constructive way at how to make it easier for the young people of belarus to live in their country and to have deeper, closer relations with us. there are many suggestions in the report. for instance, we have countries such as poland, lithuania and latvia where there could be partnerships between and among cities. that is one of the ways in which we could work. i would like to thank justas paleckis for this report, and i hope that together, step by step, we will find a constructive way to help those young people i was talking about in belarus.
madam president, i consider our demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners in belarus to be a key element of the report. i consider equally important their subsequent full rehabilitation in terms of all civil rights, the removal of convictions from criminal records and property compensation. without these steps, it is not possible to lift the european union sanctions targeting the main representatives of the totalitarian regime in belarus. the people of belarus should know that european financial aid is tied to democratic reforms, fair elections with equal access to the opposition to the media. at the same time, we should not isolate belarusian citizens, but open our schools to students, for example. the common objective is to achieve effective protection of the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms in this country in the east of our europe.
the recommendations of mr paleckis to belarus are, in my view, a significant contribution by the lithuanian presidency to strengthening the european policy towards the east. they're cleverly combining the preservation of our red lines with the changing of the means to meet them. my only regret is that we were unable to work out a similar compromise earlier. it was clear that our approach to date was not producing the desired results. regular meetings with the opposition, which certainly has an indispensable role, cannot replace our interaction with the official belarusian authorities, whatever our opinion of the regime. the practical consequences of all this have been, among other things, the reduction of the role of the parliamentary delegation of which i am a member. i find the subject of unilateral eu visa facilitation with belarus very useful. in eu practice, it's the prime minister, but i think it's coming at the right time. i find cooperation with the belarusian authorities in areas such as trade, environment, migration, energy or customs issues to be natural, even if delayed. on the other hand, there is a need to continue to monitor strictly the respect for human rights, freedom of speech and the press, and the progress of democratic reforms, in particular the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary. progress in this area must be a condition for further support under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which has supported cross-border cooperation projects with belarus' neighbours.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is more than 20 years since the fall of the berlin wall and the iron curtain and the collapse of the east-west divide. in those 20 years we have made huge progress. there is peace in europe, there is a zone of stability, cooperation and, we can also say, prosperity. we overcame the thinking of the zero-sum game which meant that, if somebody gained something, the other one was the loser. we do not want a new iron curtain and a new division of europe between the so-called west and the so-called east, namely russia and its mainly southern and eastern neighbours. mr brok was talking about choice. yes, that is the basic rule in democracy and international law that not only individuals, but also the people in the states have the right to choose which way they want to go. the people in the ukraine, moldova and georgia want to join our eastern partnership. they are working hard on their domestic reforms and to fulfil the conditions that are needed for the association agreement and the dcfta. in vilnius, this process should be finalised at this stage by signing the agreement with the ukraine and initiating negotiations with georgia and moldova. we do not want, and neither do the ukrainians, moldovans, georgians and others, a new cold war in europe, so we deplore – unfortunately, we have to say so – the behaviour of russia in pressing these people, following the mentality of the cold war and the east-west divide, into not signing this agreement and not exercising their free choice.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, during the work on this file i used to say that it was not about biodiversity itself but about the implementation of the nagoya protocol or the convention on biological diversity. now i see it is also about the trustworthiness of the eu and our responsibility for eu development, because if there is no mandate to start at all, the nagoya protocol will not be ratified by the eu during this mandate. the eu will not be able to negotiate at the next conference of the parties to the convention in october 2014 – and there are enough countries to ratify the nagoya protocol without us. not being at the table means we are on the menu, with all the extremely damaging effects that would have on the eu in any aspect of the matter: access to genetic resources would be closed, the application of the nagoya protocol would be discussed without us, etc. the most damaging effect would be to lose any credibility the eu has built up in this last decade. i of course support all the outcomes of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but i call on all colleagues to please support the report and vote to grant the mandate to start negotiations, even if some of your choices fall into the dustbin during the vote tomorrow. only in such a case can we try to negotiate the best possible outcome with the council; only in such a case can you be part of negotiations at the next conference of the parties to the convention in october 2014.
mr president, let me say that i regard the joint strengthening of the union's internal security and the fight against organised crime as the key challenges for the european institutions in the coming days, apart from the solution to the economic crisis. i welcome the new legislation on more effective confiscation of criminal proceeds, stricter rules on combating financial crime in the stock exchange or the labelling of explosives. the most important, however, are the european atlas programme, which funds joint training of counter-terrorism units, and the ran project, which is designed to help detect movements promoting radicalism and fundamentalism. i believe that we need to further build cooperation between national cyber-crime centres and i am convinced that the upcoming european cybercrime centre at europol will provide an effective platform for the exchange of best practice.
for the ecr group. mr president, the european ombudsman's office, under the leadership of mr diamandouros, has done a really great job over the last ten years, and i would like to thank him personally and on behalf of our group. but we must not hide the fact that there is still room for improvement. it is clear to everyone that only the courts have the power to issue legally binding decisions and to provide authoritative interpretation of legislation. the ombudsman's competence is to make only suggestions and recommendations, and this is one of the main limitations of the functioning of this institution. the ombudsman can respond to these limitations by the quality of his work, the usefulness of his recommendations, and his professional and moral authority. however, the ombudsman should be given the opportunity to exercise this authority. we should invite the european ombudsman more often, not only to give us accounts and reports on his activities, but also to tell us where the european parliament has gone wrong. last year the ombudsman dealt with 24 complaints concerning the european parliament and i dare say that few of us know what they are about and what remedial measures have been taken. the second area to focus on is the efficiency of the resources spent. last year, the ombudsman's office dealt with 704 complaints. with a budget of €9.5 million, it costs member states nearly €13,000 to solve a single case. by comparison, in the czech republic, solving one case will cost 13,000 crowns, about 25 times less at the current exchange rate. i am aware that the multilingualism of our work is costly, but i expect your office and the new ombudsman to start looking at the cost issue in detail, to compare the effectiveness of their work with that of the national ombudsmen and to look for cost savings along the way. and that's something i'd like to see in the next european ombudsman's report in a year's time. but that will be the job of your successor, and the judgement will be on our successors. mr ombudsman, i wish you well-deserved rest and good health.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mrs marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on promoting the european cultural and creative sectors as sources of economic growth and employment (2012/2302 ((ini)) (a7-0248/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the negotiations on the european banking union (2013/2707 ((rsp))
i would like to make one announcement. because of a decision by the conference of presidents, there will be no blue cards and no catch-the-eye during this debate.
in writing. - the amendment of this regulation has been under discussion for more than two and a half years. while i am aware of all the shortcomings of the proposed compromise, including the threat of a revision of the tfeu, after careful consideration i have decided to support this text. as representatives of the citizens, we simply have to send at least this political signal that the european parliament supports cooperation between individual states in foreign policy. the mechanism of automatic visa reciprocity is of great importance for citizens of the czech republic. history has shown us that if an influential third country with which eu member states enjoy a reciprocal visa-free regime re-establishes the visa requirement vis-à-vis, for example, the czech republic or another eu member state, many member states are not in a position to prevent this negative development themselves without activating such a mechanism. the reciprocity mechanism represents solidarity between the european states. i hope that the 21 member states whose secret declaration on blocking the activation of reciprocity towards the eu's strategic partners recently leaked from the council will not prefer power games to the interests of the european citizens who have been harmed. i also hope that individual member states will not abuse the second element of this regulation, the so-called suspension mechanism, in order to promote nationalism and xenophobia. i voted against the recommendation of the shadow reporter tanji fajon. i would like to thank her for all the hard work she has put into this report and the patience she has shown during the endless negotiations.
in writing. the report supports the european commission's proposal for a single supervisory mechanism and stresses that the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism is a first and essential step towards the creation of a european banking union, based on a truly single set of rules for financial services, which also includes the harmonisation of the various national deposit insurance schemes and a common european framework for restructuring. i welcome banking supervision because it is a suitable tool to break the vicious circle between private and public debt and to ensure that the banking sector takes responsibility. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is essential that the banking union has mechanisms for democratic accountability and with the role that national parliaments could play in this. i am convinced that banking supervision is a tool for stability and protection of taxpayers and private customers of banks throughout the european union. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of a resolution on the situation of men and women in relation to equal pay for equal work. the persisting disparities, which on average in the eu are over 16%, are unacceptable and it is clear that they are not being substantially reduced despite existing legislation and other measures. these differences are unjustified, women are clearly discriminated against in this respect, the effects of the pay gap persist until retirement age and women receive on average 39% less pension than men.
madam president, the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and that is exactly the case with this directive. the intentions are seemingly noble, but the consequences will be very negative. i am sure that the adoption of this directive will have the following negative effects: firstly, the reduction of revenue to the national budget by billions of euros per year; secondly, the disappearance of thousands of jobs in the tobacco industry and also in the trade network; thirdly, the massive growth of the black market, smuggling and the illegal, untaxed trade in tobacco products. the european commission should think about the fact that it still subsidizes tobacco growing from the budget. how is that possible? why does he not propose to abolish subsidies for tobacco growing in the interests of health and instead propose bans? i believe that this area should be regulated at national rather than european level. that is why i shall vote against this directive. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i'm convinced that this will lead to another huge increase in smuggling. we see it here, living in kehl. in germany, cigarette products are cheaper, and the french go to kehl en masse to buy cigarettes. we'll see the same thing all along the borders of the european union. everywhere this smuggling will increase thanks to this directive.
mr. chairman, many of our colleagues here have thanked the rapporteur, linda mcavan, for her excellent report. i join in, but i also want to thank her and express my admiration for her personal bravery. the tobacco industry has made a spectacle of this matter in recent months. we are discussing a kind of monstrous narco-economy in the member states instead of returning the discussion to where it belongs. this discussion is in the realm of health care. seven hundred thousand deaths a year from smoking, that's the titanic, the titanic disaster every single day of every year. seven out of ten smokers start smoking before they're 18. the measures proposed are clearly aimed at making tobacco less attractive to new consumers. it's been proven by studies, it's been proven by experiences in other countries. the aim is to prevent young people from being dragged into addiction, into a new slavery to tobacco addiction. all the measures proposed in the directive are directed towards this single objective. this isn't about smoking bans, it's about regulating manipulative marketing tools, that's all. the tobacco industry itself, with its allergic reaction, has proved to us that we are on the right track. and one more note, commissioner borg has very rightly mentioned the moment of truth here. the vote today will be such a moment of truth. it remains to be seen whether this house is run by democracies, whether it is run by members of parliament who are acting in the interests of their constituents, or whether it is run by the tobacco lobby.
mr president, it seems that some of the colleagues here are more interested in the interests of the managers of the big mining companies, who come and go. well, i'm not ashamed to be here defending the interests of those who have to live in that environment ruined by mining and have to drink water that is contaminated with carcinogens and have to breathe the air that remains there. so i am very pleased that mr zanoni has introduced into this report the right of public participation in accordance with the aarhus convention. i am very pleased that the report addresses the conflicts of interest arising in environmental impact assessment. this is good news for european citizens. and i'm also glad that this report finally fills one big gap, and that's the extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons using hydraulic fracturing. because this extraction is dangerous, the eia has not been covered by the agreement yet, and the fact that the commission has not been able to incorporate this into the proposal is bad. the commission's representatives' explanation that they were going to do this in the future, i simply do not accept.
in writing. the european parliament and council directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia) is intended to be a major milestone and a step towards more rigorous environmental protection. until now, projects have often had some importance for the economic development of a region, usually also co-financed by the eu budget, but often caused massive or long-term damage to the climate, soil or water in the area. the long-term benefits of such projects are significantly negative. the eia directive should change this practice. after its entry into force, all major public or private projects are to be reviewed in good time in terms of their immediate and future environmental impact. it will cover more than 200 types of projects, ranging from bridges, ports, motorways, roads, landfills, demolition of buildings to intensive livestock or poultry farming. it is estimated that over 30 000 environmental impact assessments will be carried out in the union each year. however, i am very concerned that the directive does not include the possibility of preventing a project if it proves to be very harmful to its environment. the presentation of alternative or mitigating solutions is incredibly low. in fact, there is no policy in the union that is more important and strategic than environmental policy and food security through organic farming.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
in writing. − if you have i'm all for it. the gue/ngl group voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on cooperation in the field of the civilian global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community, its member states and ukraine. the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament a number of new rights. one of them is the possibility to approve proposals for agreements in accordance with articles 172 and 218. in addition, in the case of the gnss cooperation agreement, it is the first part of a large-scale agreement between the european union and ukraine, which is intended to significantly extend the cooperation of these entities. the treaty is likely to be finally agreed at the vilnius summit in november this year. the european parliament's consent anticipates approval of a significant expansion of eu-ukraine cooperation and signals to the world's satellite system operators that the eu will indeed enter the field next year, thus ending the phase of discussions on whether to launch such a system quickly and moving towards full implementation. the beginning of this phase was also indicated by the move of the gnss agency to prague last autumn. the approval of the contract is therefore one of the manifestations of the strong start of the galileo project implementation phase.
mr president, i voted against the amended proposal for the tobacco directive and i was prepared to vote against the entire tobacco directive, mainly because it prohibits slim and flavoured cigarettes and i think it is concealed in order not to attract young people to smoke. i don't think that's true, you know? of course, i don't want young people to smoke or start smoking, but we're talking about products that are commonly used by adults. i believe that banning the production of certain cigarettes does not reduce the interest of young people in smoking. teenagers start smoking not because there's some special flavor, but because they want to fit in with their peers, and that's the fundamental problem. i believe that the european union can make an effort to ensure that there is sufficient and comprehensible information on what tobacco products are available and what their criteria or associated hazards are, and on this basis to enable every adult to make a free choice as to whether to start smoking and what to smoke.
before we move on to the next report, let me state my position after hearing all the contributions and debates on this subject. we're talking about how to ban smoking, but we should also be thinking about how to protect non-smokers in the environment where smokers are smoking recklessly. i think that's what's missing from the whole discussion. written explanations of vote
in writing. − in the vote on the tobacco directive, i supported the proposals to relax the restrictive requirements on tobacco products, but abstained in the final vote. i don't think that the problem of the harmful effects of smoking can be solved by regulating production. the tobacco market is so lucrative that any gap in the market created by the decline of legal tobacco products due to harsh regulation will be immediately filled by illegal ones. the smoker can reach for it without embarrassment and the state loses a significant revenue to the budget. i am convinced that strict regulation will lead to an undesirable increase in cigarette smuggling and its illegal sale beyond any public control and, hand in hand with this, to a decrease in tax revenues for the state. i support measures to protect non-smokers and children and young people, such as the ban on smoking in restaurants, the ban on the sale of tobacco products to minors and the ban on the sale of so-called 'pieces', but the continuous increase in the area of the mandatory warning on the cartons, the ban on menthol and other flavours and the ban on cigarette slims i consider to be a bullying of the tobacco manufacturers and of those smokers who have become accustomed to and prefer these types of cigarettes. i consider it a success, however, that we have managed to avoid the worst of all horrors, such as the uniform packaging of all cigarette packs.
in writing. i supported the bill as a whole, including the restriction of flavoured tobacco products (menthol, etc.) and slim cigarettes. i also voted for the maximum size of the warning on the negative consequences of smoking on packaging, but i think it is acceptable to compromise on the 65% warning. smoking controls have a negative impact on public budgets, for example in the form of a partial withdrawal of excise duties, but i believe that in the longer term, these short-term losses will be outweighed by savings in healthcare payments, as the link between smoking and many diseases is clearly established by science. but the most important thing for me is that health and longevity are beyond economic measurement and are the top priorities in my life.
in writing. - i'm a non-smoker and an athlete. i have no understanding of smoking on this principle. however, i do not support this report, which, under the declared pretext of a high level of protection of the health of the european population and the removal of obstacles to the functioning of the internal market, regulates the field of human activity in a totally inappropriate and disproportionate way. first of all, i must object to the breach of the principle of proportionality which that directive entails. the commission did not explain why it had chosen such a strict regulatory approach without first resorting to softer types of regulatory measures such as recommendations. furthermore, it is not clear why the commission has taken certain regulatory measures, such as the prohibition of flavoured tobacco products, without having demonstrable, scientifically substantiated evidence that flavoured cigarettes have a more harmful or addictive effect on users than unflavoured tobacco products. at the same time, it is unclear how the proposed measures are compatible with the stated objective of the directive, which is to remove obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. if the measures proposed in the directive are implemented, they cannot be described as removing obstacles to the internal market but as directly dismantling the tobacco products market. although i am not a supporter of smoking and would like my children not to become smokers, i cannot vote for this report for the reasons stated above.
in writing. the proposal to amend the tobacco directive, which aims to reduce the number of eu citizens addicted to tobacco products and at the same time to prevent the increase in the number of young smokers who start smoking, is a positive step in the fight against the increasing number of deaths caused by the negative effects of smoking on the human body. i am particularly led to support the view of my party colleague, linda mcavan, by the dissuasive figures which have been published at the same time as the proposal for this directive. smoking-related diseases kill 700 000 citizens in the european union every year, 20 times more than the number of people who die as a result of road accidents. i believe that prevention measures should be directed at young potential smokers, who are attracted to this vice by the appearance of the pack, the aroma of the cigarettes or their thickness. placing a pictorial warning next to the existing text is an effective way of illustrating the text, although i would be slightly more lenient about the percentage size of these warnings on the boxes. last but not least, we must realise that the fight for the health of our children cannot be won by the european union alone. the main impulses must also come from the parents themselves, who should guide the children to relevant information on the harmfulness of smoking and its negative effects on human health. the european union needs healthy and capable future generations.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal put forward by several member states to include a 'review clause' in the framework of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for 2015 and 2016 which would allow the budget to be increased during the current budgetary period in favour of key areas such as youth employment and smes. i call on the commission and the member states to make full use of the available room for manoeuvre in the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact (sgp) to balance the need for productive and sustainable public investment with the objectives of fiscal discipline. i consider it necessary that public expenditure associated with the implementation of programmes co-financed by the structural and investment funds be completely excluded from the definition of structural gni deficits, as it is expenditure dedicated to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation, in particular jobs for young people.
the newswoman. - madam president, meps have already failed to approve the council's management of the 2009 and 2010 budget years. the council was refused discharge at that time. unfortunately, it looks like the same thing is going to happen in 2011, the year i'm a reporter. it would be the third time in a row that parliament refuses to give discharge to the council and the european council, because we are also talking about the european council for 2011, even though it was included under the budget chapter together with the council. discharge to the council has become such an annual battle between parliament and the council over which of these bodies has greater competence in the discharge process. forget that there are actually two different legal opinions on the matter as to which of these authorities has the competence. and these are legal opinions that are based on an assessment of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union and is accountable to the citizens of each member state, so meps should provide taxpayers with full information on how their taxes are being handled. the citizens of the european union pay for their operations with their taxes, and it is therefore the automatic duty of every institution, including in my view the council and the european council, to operate in a transparent manner and to be fully accountable to the public. at the plenary session of 17 april this year, the discharge for the financial year 2011 was postponed to the council and the european council, on the grounds that the council was not cooperating with the european parliament and refusing to provide the information necessary for the discharge. i, as rapporteur, recommended this postponement, saying that we should give the council representatives the opportunity to provide the appropriate information and to answer at least the questions raised by the members of the committee on budgetary control. although the meeting with the cypriot presidency indicated that some progress could be made, unfortunately this has not happened. the council's management is not as transparent as the council thinks it is, as presented in the annual report. parliament has for some years pointed out the lack of transparency in the recruitment and remuneration of staff and the cost of the council's acquisition of the residence palace has not been clarified. i believe that if parliament has not answered all the questions, it cannot decide otherwise than to refuse to grant discharge to the council and thus to the european council. if tomorrow's vote again results in meps choosing not to grant discharge, i hope that this will encourage the council representative to have a more open dialogue with us, the members of the committee on budgetary control, at least in the future. i want to emphasize that this opinion of mine was voted on by all but one vote in the committee on budgetary control. so i believe that tomorrow's vote will be held in the same spirit and that this position will be supported. all i can say is i wish the next reporter could report something more positive than i did.
madam president, i am convinced that in the present situation parliament cannot in any event grant the council a discharge. it refuses to accept parliament's right to rigorous and direct scrutiny, as has been the case on several occasions with virtually all speakers. and it is from this that parliament derives its right to not only formal but also deep and thorough scrutiny in all circumstances. if i look at the position of the european institutions in a broader context, i must come to a clear conclusion. our mandate is derived from the citizens, and therefore it is only we, the elected representatives, who have the right to exercise a thorough control over the handling of the european budget. if the council has been repeatedly asked to present and explain the circumstances of public procurement, it is unacceptable that it should not react at all to our legitimate criticisms. maybe he's making excuses of his own. that's difficult in good societies, and it's not done. it is therefore good that we agree on this view across the political spectrum in the committee on budgetary control. i therefore also believe that, in order to ensure effective budgetary control, discharge should be given to all the institutions which administer the budget of the european union, including, of course, the council. i therefore support the report by mrs češková and propose that the council does not grant discharge. (the president withdrew)
the newswoman. - madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for supporting my position. i just made a few notes from the discussion that was going on. several of you have said that you thank the council representatives for being here. i think that should be taken for granted from the very beginning. so i can also thank the council representatives for being here, but i think it's the same as if they were thanking us for being here. then there was the proposal by the irish presidency to set up an interinstitutional group to deal with the legal dispute between the representatives of the european parliament and the representatives of the council as to which body has what option. yes, that sounds very nice, it has been on the table for some time, but i would like to say that if we really want to show our will to act and to show that transparency at all, then first of all the representatives of the council should answer our questions, the questions, as i said in my first speech, of the members of the committee on budgetary control, because i believe that is the first step that should be taken, just as i believe that the representatives of the council should be present whenever this chapter of the budget, the general budget of the european union, which concerns the council and the european council, is being discussed in the committee on budgetary control and, consequently, of course, here in the plenary. i take it for granted. there were a lot of informal meetings, as i noted, it would be better to move on to some other steps. perhaps we should start by answering the questions raised by the european parliament and by having the members or representatives of the council report to the committee on budgetary control and the next rapporteur will have an easier time. thank you, everybody.
in writing. the rapporteur refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2011, referring to the observations of the european court of auditors (eca). according to the 2011 annual report of the eca, shortcomings were identified in the selection procedure. the council refuses to answer repeated questions from the european parliament and the questions are still unresolved. i regard this lack of transparency on the part of the council as a bad signal to the taxpayers of the european union and therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has exercised its right and will not grant discharge. i believe that despite the gentleman's agreement between the european parliament and the council, the council should be subject to democratic control by european citizens, since it is the recipient of funds from the general budget of the european union and citizens have a right to know how their taxes are being handled. i welcome the open dialogue between the council and the european parliament and am therefore pleased that a representative of the council is also taking part in today's debate, so that he can answer questions directly.
mr. chairman, my ecr team was in china about a month ago. we met with foreign investors in the automotive industry, telecommunications. in my own country, the czech republic, there's going to be a big czech-chinese investment forum in mid-november, so it's clear that everyone is interested in china. it is high time for these negotiations, i welcome them. there is not only a legal framework for such negotiations, but it is also politically prudent to have uniform investment rules, after all, we as the european union have over a hundred billion investments there. at least in 2011, that was the case, and since then, the trend has been increasing, so it's in our own best interest to protect our investments. i'm sure that in addition to the equal opportunities and equal access, there will be the resolution of mutual disputes, as some colleagues have already said. i believe we can find a mutually acceptable solution there, too. so you have our full support in this, commissioner.
madam president, two weeks ago in this house we discussed the discriminatory measures of the russian federation towards our eastern neighbours. today we are discussing the discriminatory measures of the russian federation towards our member states, more precisely towards the state that holds the eu presidency: lithuania. i think this is unacceptable. this russian behaviour is not acceptable for the social democrats. we do not want a trade war or to raise any new barriers. on the contrary, we want cooperation on the european continent. we want to create a common economic space where russia is our strategic partner, but we cannot accept this type of behaviour. we stand fully behind our lithuanian colleagues and express our full solidarity with lithuania. i fully agree that this is not only an attack on lithuania, it is a trade attack on the entire eu. i would also like to ask our commissioner to use all the measures we have within the wto and in other areas to tackle this problem. it is necessary to do this as soon as possible because milk farmers and other producers in lithuania are being very badly hit, and we cannot tolerate this type of behaviour.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by malcolm harbour, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on recreational craft and personal watercraft (com(2011)0456 – c7-0212/2011 – 2011/0197(cod)) (a7-0213/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 october 2013.
the next item is the motion for a resolution in accordance with rule 88 by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on amendment of regulation (eu) no 965/2012 laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures related to air operations pursuant to regulation (ec) no 216/2008 (2013/2847(rsp) - b7-0440/2013).
i would like to inform you that there was agreement in the committee on transport and tourism. it was agreed also by mr brian simpson. i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 88 of the rules of procedure. (interjection from the floor of the house) please debate it next time or within committee. it is not my duty to discuss it here. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on implementation of remit and the acer 2014 budget by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000099/2013 – 2013/2723(rsp) - b7-0510/2013).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
madam president, first of all, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs bernadette vergnaud, for her excellent work and the result achieved for the benefit of our citizens. the resulting text reflects the european parliament's priorities of simplifying and clarifying the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications and thus facilitating professional mobility in the european internal market. among the many positive elements of the proposal, i particularly welcome the introduction of a european professional card, which will impose less burden on applicants. i believe that the various professions will make ample use of this opportunity. i consider it equally important that the proposal focuses in depth on ensuring the reliability and safety of the services provided to consumers and in particular patients, including the introduction of an alert mechanism, which will enhance the credibility of the mutual recognition system. facilitating professional mobility is an opportunity for european citizens, but also a challenge for individual member states and their labour markets, so that professional mobility is not only one-way in the long term.
in writing. i voted against the report on the new eia directive because, contrary to its stated intention, it does not simplify the permitting process, does not improve the quality of the eia process and does not reduce the administrative burden both on the competent authorities and on investors. the report presented represents a major intervention in national legislation and i therefore consider it necessary that the new version of the eia directive takes account of the different national systems of the member states. i am strongly against the mandatory choice between coordinated or joint assessment (the so-called one-stop-shop), the mandatory investigation procedure for all purposes of annex ii of the eia directive, the mandatory scope of the eia documentation (the so-called scoping) with the necessity to submit mandatory project alternatives. i also have a fundamental reservation about the link between the eia process and the content of the final decision (building permit), which prevents the existence of different national systems in the different member states. i also reject in principle any retroactivity of the new eia directive. i find the vague definition of biodiversity very problematic, as it can easily become a tool of obstruction in construction management and can be abused by those who have new construction demolition as part of their job description. i also disagree with the inclusion of shale gas exploration in the eia process, because it effectively means making it impossible and thus closing the door to any other energy source that could help solve the current energy crisis.
in writing. - i welcome the introduction of a voluntary professional card system. this procedure, which is intended to run in parallel with the traditional system in place, is entirely electronic and aims to simplify procedures for both experts and competent authorities, while ensuring a high level of reliability of the information transmitted. one of the main obstacles to mobility is the lack of trust on the part of consumers, patients, competent authorities and professionals. the source of this lack of trust is the existence of differences in training and different methods and conditions of the profession, as well as low awareness of these differences. in this connection, i welcome proposals to update the training of nurses, midwives, pharmacists and architects. the directive also promises to introduce an effective mechanism to control the quality of training provided by educational establishments. this should remove any doubt as to the actual value of the training received.
in writing. the greens and the communists tried to throw off the table an agreement supported by the european aviation safety agency (easa) and approved by all member states, including the czech republic. this agreement, which increases safety by setting comprehensive rules, is supported by čsa employees, and is not opposed by čsa management, with whom i consulted on this matter. at first sight, the simple proposal of the communists and the greens would only increase the price of air tickets, but in fact it would achieve nothing else. that's why i voted against the resolution.
mr president, respect for human rights is a fundamental principle on which european society is based. as a politician who remembers the period of communist totalitarianism very well, i know very well how human rights can be ignored, trampled and restricted. the fundamental human right is the right to life and security. the world trade center attack in new york, the bali bombings in indonesia, the madrid bombings, and the terrorist attacks in london are just a few examples of cases in which basic human rights have been trampled on. if someone is endangering the lives and safety of others, it is no wonder they are not handled with care. if it weren't for american intelligence, many of the perpetrators would never have been caught and many more people would have lost their lives. let us admit that the european parliament plays a zero-sum role in the fight against terrorism. i do not understand the attitude of some colleagues who are trying to throw stones at our american allies and are calling on the member states or the commission to do so. in this regard, the nomination of defected spy edward snowden, accused of stealing government property and knowingly leaking classified information, for the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is just another spit in the face of a partner.
mr president, i have been listening very carefully to the whole debate and there are of course a number of arguments with which i agree. i'd like to say something, though, that might have been heard by some of you here, but wasn't. i lived in communist czechoslovakia until i was 30. i have no reason to support anything connected with the soviet union. but i want to warn you, my friends, that russia is not the soviet union, that there is no communism in russia, that russia does not practice what it practiced thirty, thirty-five or forty years ago. yes, we may not like russia's path to democracy, we may find it backwards, we may find it strange. but it's a path in a direction that's more correct than the path that was there decades ago. let's not forget that 50 percent of russians are orthodox, a church with great values, and they can be grossly humiliated by some of the arguments that we're using here today.
mr. chairman, the negative attitude of the russian authorities towards non-profit organizations, minorities or independent journalists, politically motivated murders and violence, these are examples that clearly show that democratic principles are not fully functioning in russia. those who enforce them face trumped-up charges, threats, or physical violence, and in some cases, even the threat of death. it must therefore be said loud and clear that, despite all our efforts, we are failing to achieve a change in russia's attitude to human rights and thus to ensure an improvement in the adverse situation. the human rights issue, although declared by both sides as an important issue, plays only a declaratory role in the dialogue between russia and the european union and does not fundamentally affect the relations of the two partners in other dimensions, in particular in the dimension of economic cooperation. moreover, under the pressure of the economic crisis, some countries are changing the direction of their foreign policies and are beginning to give priority to economic cooperation. we must therefore, at least, keep this matter under constant review.
in writing. i welcome the report on the european border surveillance system (eurosur) which has been presented. the free movement of persons and goods is one of the key freedoms within the union and is regarded by the general public as the greatest achievement in the implementation of eu policies. but the protection of the eu's external borders will become increasingly important in the future. it is essential to prevent the flow of crime, mafias and illegal immigrants into the union. for this reason in particular, the protection of the external borders is a top priority for the schengen area. today's security at the external borders is not very effective and especially at the eastern borders it is vague. it is popular today to dismiss the notion of freedom for all under all circumstances, but let us remember that the freedom of one is limited where it meets the freedom of another. union citizens want to live in personal security, which is highly threatened by open borders. let us therefore work for greater and stricter surveillance of the eu's external borders, as well as to prevent the massive influx of illegal immigrants. i welcome the report as a whole, particularly because it opens up the issue of free borders and seeks to establish clear rights and obligations for member states to cooperate in this area. that is why i voted to accept it.
in writing. - i believe that cordless power tools with nickel-cadmium batteries could be easily replaced in the short term by cordless power tools using nickel-metal-hydride batteries, albeit at a higher cost, as the chargers for these batteries can be used to charge both types of tools with the respective batteries. the direct impact of the ban on the final consumer can be managed with the technologies currently available. this alternative can further mitigate the potential surge in waste electrical equipment that a ban on the use of nickel-cadmium batteries would lead to. given the sudden need to dispose of equipment for which temporary spare parts are no longer available, technological and environmental challenges can be expected due to the potential increase in waste electrical equipment, which can be technically addressed by the technological alternative of nickel-metal-hydride batteries.
mr. president, the situation in iraq is still very unstable, many years after the invasion of the country by the coalition of the willing. in the north, turkey is ruthlessly massacring kurds whom it believes have crossed the border and want an independent kurdistan, syrians are facing daily threats to their lives, sunnis and shiites are being defended and attacked by non-governmental militias. the state's borders are completely unguarded. the worst situation is in the ashraf and liberty refugee camps. here recently, a commando of gunmen murdered half of the defenseless crew of the ashraf and took seven people hostage. how long are we going to tolerate these human rights violations? by the way, mr. posselt apparently sang the horst wessel lied, but that doesn't fit in here.
mr president, one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce by a quarter the number of europeans living below the poverty line. with this objective in mind, our group, the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, is calling for 25% of all cohesion policy resources to be allocated to the european social fund in the ongoing negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. the fight against poverty and its social exclusion cannot be won without effective investment in employment, education and, of course, housing policies. these three pillars are the basis of the 'social inclusion' project, which is in its second year of piloting in my home town of ostrava. through the 'something for something' system, the project works with the family as a whole, motivating both children and parents and giving them a chance at a new life. our experience has the potential to become a european example of good practice and to provide a basis for wider international cooperation in tackling this issue through sharing experiences with partners abroad. we have jointly informed the commissioner responsible. up to now, all project costs have been financed from the city budget, but this approach is unsustainable in the future. the clear european added value would certainly merit financial support from the european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. i support the report by katarina neveđalová on the review of education, as it also takes into account my call for member states to avoid a decline in spending on promoting employment and training for young people. i believe that the means and instruments of the guarantee system should be used as a priority to this end. in support of this, member states should also make use of cohesion policy funds and financial instruments, which should be directed in particular to projects promoting employment and the education of young people. i therefore also welcome the emphasis on partnerships that will exploit the synergies of financial and human resources and help to ensure that public investment in youth employment and training does not fall further during austerity.
i believe that the reports we are discussing are in some ways in conflict with subsidiarity. i do not think it is appropriate for a european standard to decide which medicinal products are to be prescribed and which are to be sold freely. that is a matter for the member states to decide. the increase in administration will disproportionately cost the whole system and ultimately make innovation less accessible to patients. so we have to be very careful in deciding how far we go with administrative regulations. we consider that the pre-market authorisation of a medical device is too harsh. it's going to cost more, it's going to increase the administrative burden, and it's not going to stop fraud and crime anyway. the issue of genetic testing and counselling is being questioned by experts in our country who are concerned about the reduction in the availability of this specific care for patients. we're moving from market regulation to health care management, which is not our place.
in writing. eu citizens expect medical devices used in their countries to be safe. but their trust has been shattered by a series of scandals involving silicone breast implants, hip replacements that release cobalt and chromium ions into patients, and other cases that have made clear that current legislation is not able to ensure the safety of medical devices. it was the european parliament that, in response to these events, adopted a resolution on 14 june 2012 calling on the commission to develop a legal framework to guarantee the safety of medical technology. we have this proposal on the table now, but it seems that some people have forgotten what brought us to it in a year and a few months and are constantly trying to weaken it. the rapporteur has done her utmost to reach a compromise and her proposal will clearly increase patient safety in the eu. however, more could have been done had there not been strong pressure from some stakeholders to make the proposal 'balanced'. in practice, this means, as some meps have suggested, that solutions should be found that suit both patients and the entire medical device manufacturing, distribution and retail sector. but in my view, patient safety comes first and their trust is not strengthened by compromise solutions but by clear rules that effectively prevent such scandals.
mr president, the report on the council's position on the draft general budget for next year is full of criticism of the member states. parliament has consistently criticised the council's approach to savings and spending cuts. i do not share this parliament's position. let us ask ourselves why the council is seeking to cut costs. i am convinced that he does so out of sheer necessity, given the economic situation in the member states. it is not because of reluctance, but because of the bad economic situation, and we must take that into account and accept it, and not fight it systematically. if national economies and budgets stagnate, the european budget cannot grow either. so i cannot support the opposite policy. on the contrary, i call for sobriety, savings and a budgetary compromise to be able to manage properly in 2014. the single seat of the european parliament and the merger of similar agencies could bring about major savings.
in writing. the report proposes tougher monitoring, strengthening certification bodies and improving the traceability of medical devices. the new regulation should reconcile differences in the interpretation of the existing rules and strengthen the protection of public health. medical devices, from patches, contact lenses and pregnancy tests to dental fillings, x-ray machines, pacemakers, breast implants, hip replacements and hiv blood tests, have been regulated in their current form within the eu for 20 years. i welcome the revision of this regulation and its renewal to ensure greater patient safety. following the scandals surrounding defective breast implants and hip replacements, i believe that stricter controls on medical devices are necessary to better protect patients. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. the medical device safety sector is another part of the fulfilment of one of the pillars of the common european policy, i.e. ensuring safety for consumers. for a long time, medical supplies were left uncovered. the document presented was created in response to, among other things, alarming cases such as defective breast implants. the proposal divides medical devices into risk classes by content and covers medical devices developed through new technologies by content. the new requirements are being met by the creation of a european database that will keep an accurate overview of authorised, certified medical devices. the regulation does not infringe the principle of subsidiarity, as the responsibility for entering data lies with the individual member states. the commission and the member states must ensure the implementation of the right to information and access to it. the regulation as a whole is a contribution to promoting patient safety and restoring trust in medical devices in the european union.
in writing. i supported the draft regulation on medical devices because the recent healthcare scandals in europe have painfully shown that the medical device approval system has serious flaws. the updating of the existing rules is therefore necessary not only because of these scandals but also because of the significant technological progress. i welcome the fact that the proposal introduces, for example, stricter security controls, strengthens more effective market surveillance and guarantees better access to information for the public. i consider the measures to introduce mandatory unannounced random checks on manufacturers, which will contribute to greater transparency, and the partial opening of the eudamed medical device database to be concrete improvements for consumers. patients will finally be able to learn about the clinical trials and certificates of the medical device that is implanted in them. on the contrary, i am against the reuse of single-use medical equipment which may endanger the safety and health of patients.
in writing. the report analyses the current situation, where young people's access to quality education is becoming more limited. the report rightly notes that these limitations arise from a lack of funding, either on the part of the student or as a result of cuts in individual member states. critical remarks can be made about the so-called bologna process and the europe 2020 programme, but there is no other common framework for member states to provide comparable levels of education. the report therefore appropriately proposes actions under these programmes. i consider the emphasis on acquiring transversal skills and knowledge, including language and business knowledge, to be the most important. this is the only way to increase competitiveness in the labour market. if the declared objectives are to be achieved, the commission cannot be left without the possibility of monitoring compliance. the emphasis on ensuring equal access to education for vulnerable groups of people who are not in education, employment or training is also consistent with european values. the report is aimed at promoting an educated society and i want to support this by voting in favour of it.
in writing. the material presented deals with one of the most serious areas of healthcare, namely healthcare-associated infections. the report rightly notes that these complications and side effects are not given sufficient attention in the member states. the proposed measures cover the full spectrum correctly. i consider timely and detailed information between eu countries to be the most important. the information should be used to adopt joint actions. but the report rightly emphasizes the education and training of health-care workers. the use of the european agency for the safety of medicines is also a prerequisite for good results, as the misuse of medicines is one of the causes of hospital complications. i think it is very important that the report also addresses the home care of patients and patients with long-term illnesses who are at increased risk of developing unwanted complications. by implementing all the proposed measures, with appropriate eu coordination and by using existing structures, it is possible not only to significantly increase patient safety, but also to fulfil patients' rights to quality healthcare. the report does not interfere with the spontaneous activities of individual member states, but raises the minimum standard of care.
in writing. − i cannot support the draft report, as it fundamentally alters the principles of commercial law. the report also extends the protection hitherto enjoyed by consumers to all commercial relationships. it is perfectly right that consumers enjoy greater protection, since they are a vulnerable group whose primary objective is not to do business and take the risks associated with it, but to consume in the normal way. the fact that it is proposed that enterprises should be more protected from the activities of other enterprises is a change in approach to the meaning of business and to commercial law in general. the whole report is therefore just another step towards codifying commercial obligations in terms of binding clauses and removing the principle of freedom of contract. that is why i voted against the report.
the next item is the report by salvatore iacolino, on behalf of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, on organised crime, corruption and money laundering: recommendations on action and initiatives to be taken (final report) (2013/2107(ini)) (a7-0307/2013).
madam president, it is in our vital interest to have peace, stability (if possible), prosperity and cooperation in our neighbourhood. if we look to the east, we will see that the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are the right tools to enable our neighbouring countries to make sustainable reforms and systemic transformation on the basis of values such as human rights, civil rights, the rule of law and a socially-oriented market economy. in the past year, too, we have made great progress. we will demonstrate that progress in vilnius at the summit. ukraine will sign the agreement, and two other countries will initiate. some people say that we are expecting all six countries to do this. i think these expectations are not realistic, because i do not think anybody expects belarus, for instance, to follow the same path as moldova, ukraine or georgia. but we are not giving up. we discussed belarus a few weeks ago, and we are developing strategies on how to help the citizens, the young people and the ngos. i also think we should develop similar types of – albeit different – strategies towards armenia and azerbaijan. it has been said that these countries are under tremendous pressure from their big eastern neighbour, and this is true. but once again, i think we should be thinking about concrete steps and specific assistance. how can we help these countries become, for instance, more independent in terms of energy? that means, as far as moldova is concerned, that we should speed up the process of building the gas pipeline. when we talk about trade, once again we should be looking for ways in which we can help those countries. finally, the people in our neighbourhood need a clear prospect of seeing visa liberalisation, a visa-free regime. so once again, let us work towards that goal.
madam president, the european neighbourhood policy report is always a very interesting document. this issue surprisingly emphasizes a strong anti-russian accent. i would like to focus on the part on ukraine. that's points 47 to 51. the european union is, on the one hand, promoting a strategic partnership with the russian federation, and on the other hand, seeking to introduce measures which exclude cooperation with third countries, whether belarus, ukraine or the caucasian republic. it is emphasized everywhere that the development of cooperation between these countries and partners other than the european union is undesirable and that cooperation with the russian federation is even harmful. particularly unbalanced is the demand that president yanukovych release yulia tymoshenko from prison and at the same time deepen the independence of the judiciary. i don't understand that personally. either we assume that the president is exercising his authority over the judiciary, or we actually demand the independence of the judiciary. signature of the association agreement european union ukraine i support the will of the majority of ukrainian voters.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the european neighbourhood policy is a magic trick based on the false assumption that people in the eu countries are satisfied with the state of democracy, that civil society plays a significant role and that gender equality is ensured. the latter request in particular is very bold, considering that the european parliament, by its majority, refused to deal with the report a7-0306/2013 on sexual and reproductive health on 22 october 2013. if the countries concerned by the motion for a resolution take this majority move seriously, then i would fully understand that at least some of them will legitimately raise against the eu at the next meeting some of the demands that the report under discussion makes against them, for example in point 7 'the gender perspective'. in the 'eastern partnership' section, i would recommend that some eu countries conduct a survey on the popularity of government measures in their countries. in particular, the actions of the greek or polish governments would appear to be grounds for suspending cooperation programmes on the basis of this report. on the one hand, the report criticises russia's actions, on the other hand it itself contains some pressure measures against partner countries. the part of the report that deals with the southern neighborhood is like a dance between the eggs. we want cooperation, stability, democratization, but we don't like the results of free elections. the militant islamists have disappeared from the report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by maria do céu patrão neves, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on marine knowledge 2020: ‘seabed mapping for promoting sustainable fisheries’ (2013/2101(ini)) (a7-0295/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, i would like to say a few words about the eastern partnership and the preparations for the vilnius summit. i think it is in our vital interests that we have peace, stability and cooperation on our eastern borders. for this reason, the eastern partnership is the right instrument. we need political associations and economic integration with those countries that wish to have this partnership with us. i wish the council would talk about concrete help for our neighbours. association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are the right way forward, but countries such as moldova need immediate and concrete help. so let us look for ways to increase trade and to speed up the process of building the gas pipeline. we should also think about how to improve and increase mobility, and especially how to help young people – in other words, visa liberalisation. let us move on a path towards a visa-free regime. unfortunately, our eastern neighbours are under great pressure from russia. we should send a clear message to russia that we express our full solidarity with our neighbours, but, at the same time, we do not want a new cold war. we do not want a new division in europe. i think that should be our clear message. we must not sink back into a cold war mentality or zero-sum games. let us work together to create a common economic space: a zone of peace, cooperation and prosperity from brest all the way to vladivostok. good luck with the preparations for the vilnius summit.
in writing. in may, the european commission published a set of recommendations to individual eu countries, summarising the measures taken by the european commission to overcome the crisis in each country. these measures cover a detailed analysis of each country's situation and contain policy proposals for national governments with a view to growth, competitiveness and job creation in 2013 and 2014. the report welcomes the commission's recommendations and underlines the fact that the commission and the council are striving not to apply a universal approach and to ensure that the recommendations take into account the specificities and needs of each country. after the entry into force of the two-pack, the commission's recommendations have become more important and i believe that in the current economic situation of the european union, deeper cooperation between the individual member states of the european union and better coordination of their economic policies is important. i would stress, however, that european competitiveness cannot be based on cuts alone, but also on investments to promote growth and employment, especially among young people.
in writing. - perhaps the most common criticism of the european union is that it does not act where it should or that it acts too much where it is better to do nothing. i believe that the transition from contractual relations is one of the areas where action is needed, not just talk. the united states, with its sophisticated surveillance mechanism, has totally overstepped the trust we placed in them by entering into the swift agreement. therefore, i think it is not enough, as my colleagues on the right of this parliament suggest, to simply dwell on the possible breach of the agreement. we must act decisively and not just shrug our shoulders. the suspension of the swift agreement until the unauthorised access to financial data is clarified is therefore an appropriate and potentially reactive action by the us. i believe that the united states' interest is still in fighting terrorism, not in spying on the world. the eu still considers the us as family, but the eu prefers uncle sam to big brother sam.
madam commissioner, mr president, i would like to commend the commissioner for her long-term efforts to strengthen the telecommunications market in europe and to remove barriers to its growth. i too find some of the measures, restrictions, which make communication services more expensive or administratively restrictive, pointless. i see the problem in the timing of the program submitted. the commission's mandate is due to expire in a few months, and the material is very complex, both technically and organisationally. it would be a great disservice if such an important project were to remain unresolved because of the lack of time for discussion in parliament and in the council. the need for investment in telecommunications, such as broadband internet, is currently high in the european union and the main need is to ensure predictability of the environment for investors. i therefore consider the introduction of a single european authorisation for the whole of the european union and the elimination or abolition of roaming charges to be a key issue.
i believe that the creation of a new macro-regional strategy for the carpathian region is a subject worthy of attention and discussion. i believe that the carpathian region has common, specific characteristics that distinguish it from neighbouring regions. it is not just a problem of mountain regions, but let us remember that the whole carpathian mountain range is also a cohesive country, and the problems of mountain regions are thereby exacerbated. it is therefore worth considering whether the needs would be better met by a specific macro-regional strategy. i think it is necessary to emphasise that this strategy should not duplicate and overlap other instruments, but in the case of the carpathian strategy it should be clear whether it will add value to existing strategies. i personally think so. in principle, therefore, i am in favour of making the most of the existing instruments, but given these specificities, i would be in favour of a new macro-regional strategy. of course, on the same basis as the danube and baltic strategies, these things should not necessitate new eu legislation and additional funding. any solution should be based on an agreement between the member states on whose territory the carpathian regions concerned are located and the usefulness of relocating part of the resources allocated to territorial cooperation to the new macro-regional strategy for the carpathian region should be underlined and emphasised by such an agreement.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to respond to the commissioner's opening remarks, because i agree with him on many points. it's worth considering that we support all initiatives that come from the bottom up. the carpathian strategy has great support in the region, supported by seven countries as such. our request is not a burden on the budget, i fully support the strategy three times over. not new government, not new legislation, not new funding. so we need to support that. in terms of comparison with the danube strategy, it is not possible to include the carpathian danube strategy, as these are completely different conditions. the water catchment area and cooperation around the danube is one thing, but cooperation in the mountain areas and in some of the poorest areas in europe is another. that's why i think it's necessary to support this strategy, because it will help us all develop.
in writing. the report on the european fisheries fund is part of the reform of the eu's fisheries policy and documents the dispute between the two sides. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the fisheries sector and in the promotion of sustainable fisheries management. in contrast, many of the countries that make substantial profits from fishing are pushing for commercial fishing to continue in the same way. i am for sustainable fishing and the preservation of the sector as a livelihood for the future and against the continuation of the mass fishing of the seas and oceans. once it is caught, the fishermen will lose their livelihood forever. moreover, commercial fishing benefits particularly wealthy corporations, which are not interested in the protection of fish stocks and other rules prohibiting discards. they're all about profits. i strongly disagree with the reporter's assertion that the fleet's overcapacity is debatable. i'm calling for a reduction in the number of vessels and a reduction in the potential catch as soon as possible. as we speak, the oceans and seas continue to be plundered and no one is doing anything about it. fishing companies in freshwater zones contribute and look after their fish farms, which they then have the right to catch. by contrast, fisheries companies operating on the seas and oceans have a very negative record on the maintenance of fish stocks. i welcome the report as a whole. i voted for amendments that help to keep fishing as an industry going into the future.
in writing. unfortunately, organised crime is present in all eu countries, regardless of the measures taken. the report rightly goes beyond the 'classic' forms of organised crime, such as financial crime and drugs, and broadens the spectrum of organised crime to include illicit trafficking in waste, works of art and protected species, and counterfeiting of goods. the report rightly emphasises the need for closer cooperation in the field of justice, and the importance of bodies such as europol and olaf. the only way to fight organized crime is to fight back together. i supported this report because i believe it is moving in the right direction.
in writing. the european union is often said to be unnecessarily regulating things that should not be regulated. while this may be true in some cases, in this case we have succeeded in producing a single text from the five original directives. and i believe, along with the reporter, that it was a success. the demand for a continuous reduction in the number of regulations and their simplification is entirely logical and in this case the european commission has heard it, instead of 5 regulations there will be 1 and, moreover, its requirements are in many cases brought into line with the requirements of the international organisations working in this sector, namely the international atomic energy agency and the international commission for radiological protection, which give us common definitions and comprehensive control and surveillance mechanisms. it is entirely legitimate for the rapporteur to ask that the material be deleted from the text if it is not clear. it's about the effects of radiation on subhuman species. in view of the above qualities of the proposal, i believe it deserves support and the gue/ngl group has therefore voted in favour.
education is the key to europe's future prosperity. it strengthens its competitiveness, but also the values of european integration. it is not just formal education, but also its informal component, the ability to compare and learn about countries, their cultures and, most importantly, to get to know each other and make contacts. it breaks down prejudices between people and nations in the best possible way by seeing for yourself. erasmus plus is europe's flagship programme in this respect, and i consider its support and adequate funding to be absolutely essential. i welcome the increase in the overall budget, which underlines the importance of the programme at a time of cuts and will enable more than four million europeans to benefit from it over the next seven years. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent result of the negotiations. for young people in europe, this is undoubtedly good news.
in writing. as strange and hard to believe as it may seem, 24 years after the fall of the iron curtain, the cross-border mobility of students and young people in the czech republic is not something taken for granted. undoubtedly one of the most popular programmes of the european union, which benefits more than 6 500 students in the czech republic alone, will be further improved. the proposed erasmus for all programme is an improvement in three areas. in particular, this proposal contains a number of new instruments for young people increased support for youth work and voluntary activities or higher social security for young people. the focus of the erasmus for all programme on youth employment motivation is thus fully in line with the increase in the 2014-2020 budget for the fight against youth unemployment. the erasmus for all programme is also a simplification of existing legislation. this simplification represents an inevitable change in how the programme is kept attractive. the general simplification and harmonisation of legislation is a prerequisite for making the eu's work more efficient. the adoption of this proposal will significantly modernise the erasmus programme and other education and sport programmes. the modernisation in the form of the proposed erasmus for all programme is to increase the chances of young people living their dreams.
mr president, the motto of the creative europe programme is to promote cultural and linguistic diversity. i fully identify with this slogan, because it is the cultural diversity and the language that make each country of the european union unique. we must protect and preserve these values for future generations. the creative europe programme is intended to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors, which are a major source of jobs in europe. creative europe builds on the experience and success of the culture and media programmes, which have supported the cultural and audiovisual sectors in europe for more than 20 years. their overlap will provide a better structured financial instrument, but will also allow each programme to pursue its own objectives. that will never be possible without adequate financial support. culture is not just a business, but above all a way of preserving and passing on our own heritage. it's a very important issue in times of crisis.
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. - mr president, commissioner, from a regional development perspective, it is clear that there are still many needs to be addressed in the field of trans-european transport networks. the connecting europe facility, together with the agreed network map, is therefore a good basis for completing the backbone infrastructure, even though some of us may have some doubts about whether it is right to take the money we give to the member states under cohesion policy for these constructions. the highest priority must be given to projects in central and eastern europe, where the motorway network in particular is still inadequate and indeed under-scaled compared to the west. priority should also be given to cross-border transport link projects that will allow for the smoother movement of people and goods within the european union. as the member of parliament representing the hradec králové region, i am particularly pleased that support is being provided for projects that are increasingly remote, such as the d11 motorway link to poland or the construction of the prague-ostrava northern link.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, the ten-t networks have been one of the key projects for building the common infrastructure of the european union for many years. the cef report adds the interconnection of energy and telecommunications networks. the bold plans so far have been met with a lack of funds from the european union, problems with preparing the construction, a lack of coordination between the states and often difficulties in getting funds from the national budgets, i.e. with the participation of the state. i think it is right that priority should be given to cross-border communications interconnection. i also consider the two-tier structure of the ten-t and the monitoring of the progress of work, inter alia through the control reports submitted to parliament, to be appropriate measures. i welcome the introduction of multimodal corridors with a preference for less environmentally harmful modes of transport. the fundamental problem with the reports is that i see an underestimation of the role of inland waterways. their planning and construction is always on the long haul. the authors want to remove the entire central and eastern part of the european union, including the danube, from the fourth-class waterways. i have to ask why they are not taking action on the rhine, the meuse, the rhône, or the sea port projects. do they apply different standards? i believe that this deficiency can be remedied. the tens system certainly deserves our support. these are a series of much-needed projects without which the interconnection of the countries of the european union will not improve. we will only continue to face the notorious problems of energy, telecommunications and transport.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all the rapporteurs for their efforts in reaching a very difficult compromise. from the beginning of the debate i have advocated that when we set the rules we should be careful to compensate for the huge differences in the level of infrastructure in all modes of transport between the old and the new member states. this is the only way to get closer to the single market in transport services. however, this also requires good planning by member states and coordination between them, especially for projects with cross-border implications. administrative support must be provided by the commission to the new member states to ensure that the preparation and implementation of projects are of high quality, transparent and free from unnecessary errors that would block their completion. i welcome the compromise reached in favour of the new member states to maintain the principle of national envelopes instead of competition in the original commission proposal under the cef cohesion instrument until the end of 2016.
the seven-year eu budget is a significant fiscal stimulus in the current uncomfortable economic situation. unfortunately, the cuts imposed by the council have significantly reduced its potential in this respect. the resulting compromise is far from ideal, but it contains a number of parliamentary priorities that will help europe deal with the consequences of the crisis, compared with the council's original proposal. these include, inter alia, advancing the use of the budget to support youth employment and increasing the resources for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development and the fund for the poorest. fortunately, parliament has succeeded in pushing for greater flexibility in the financial framework, which should partially compensate for the lack of resources. the possibility of moving between chapters and years will allow for efficient use where it is most needed. the only way to achieve budgetary autonomy, however, is through own resources reform. i am pleased that the council has finally put an end to its reluctance to act in this respect and look forward to the results of the high level group to be set up by the end of this year. i also hope that in the future we will be able to introduce a financial transaction tax throughout the european union.
in writing. i welcome the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which, as a result of parliament's pressure, includes more flexibility. this is, in my view, desirable, as developments are currently too volatile to predict with certainty the situation and needs of the eu over the entire duration of the mff. i therefore endorse the clause of the 2016 review of its functioning, which may result in the adjustment of priorities and the reallocation of funds between them. i consider that not increasing the overall eu budget is the right solution, which is in line with the policies of necessary savings implemented at member state level. i welcome the introduction or strengthening of specific instruments such as the emergency aid reserve, the solidarity fund or the flexibility instrument, which will allow the financing of precisely identified expenditure that could not be financed within the ceilings for one or more thematic headings of the eu budget.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the eu's multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020, as the european union needs stability to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis. i support the orientation of the new financial framework towards growth, development, environmental sustainability and job creation. from the czech republic's point of view, i also welcome the preservation of the european funds, in particular the social and cohesion funds, which contribute not only to the strategic and long-term development of the member states but also to short-term, rapid and targeted support for dealing with the consequences of the crisis. the mff only redistributes around 1% of eu gdp (at the national level the redistribution rate is around 40% of gdp). in this context, it is important to agree that the next mff will be reviewed and subsequently revised at the end of 2016 in order to allow the next commission and the european parliament to reassess the eu's political priorities, to adapt the mff to new challenges and needs and to take full account of the latest macroeconomic outlook.
in writing. − i am convinced that the eu needs a high-quality and effective education policy. the commission proposed a new umbrella programme called erasmus for all, and we changed the name to yes europe. i think this is a justified change, because one of the sub-programmes is called erasmus and so keeping the original name could create a confusing and unclear situation. the new programme focuses predominantly on higher education, while other education sectors are less emphasised. the question is whether a greater balance should not have been found between all areas of education. in the field of higher education, and in particular student mobility, a greater degree of flexibility is needed to adapt mobility activities to the bologna reforms and the new degrees of higher education now being introduced in europe i.e. bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees. in addition, opportunities should also be created to combine short study periods with short traineeships during erasmus stays abroad. the mobility period under erasmus should also not be limited to one academic year and one university. on the contrary, it should be possible to study at least at two universities and in different academic years.
in writing. − first, let me dwell on the amendment which would replace the name 'erasmus for all' with the new name 'yes europe'. i think the erasmus term is such a good and reputable brand that it should not be replaced by anything. and certainly not with the "yes europe" slogan. after all, a successful erasmus programme is not just for eurofederals and those who favour deep integration. erasmus is intended to be addressed to all citizens of the union. i would therefore favour the commission's original proposal or the compromise proposal reached at council level erasmus + as regards the name of the regulation, and refrain from unnecessarily propagandistic titles. i would also like to speak in favour of parallel preservation of other programme names such as comenius and leonardo. i think that a lot has been invested in their reputation in the past, and it would be a shame to say goodbye to the names of these programs. as an athlete, i have to stop by the sports section. i appreciate the work of the rapporteur who has made sure that the regulation is not only geared to the professional level of sport, but also to volunteering in sport, whose impact is much more significant. at the same time, i must thank you for the 70% increase in the erasmus budget for all. i think it's money well spent.
in writing. the connecting europe facility is essential for the development of the eu's backbone infrastructures, which will contribute to increasing the eu's competitiveness. this is to facilitate and accelerate the free movement of goods and persons, saving costs in terms of both money and time. infrastructure development is intrinsically linked to industrial development, especially transport, in which the eu is a world leader. the problem is that this area is underfunded and the funds that flow into it suffer from fragmentation and do not create the necessary synergies. it is therefore desirable to identify those infrastructure projects which, also due to their cross-border nature, have a european added value and to support them accordingly. at the same time, the geographical balance of these key projects should be ensured so that certain areas are not favoured at the expense of others. the full 85% of the connecting europe facility appropriations will be allocated to projects mainly in the form of transport corridors as set out in the annex to the regulation. i am pleased to note that among these specifically identified projects are corridors through the territory of the czech republic, which will thus make it possible to build or modernise transport infrastructure in the czech republic with the help of european funds.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a decision on the shape of the trans-european transport networks and related investments in transport infrastructure. over the next seven years, more than €26 billion is expected to be invested in transport, which is good news for the czech republic. the connecting europe facility, together with the agreed map of trans-european transport networks, can make a significant contribution to completing the backbone infrastructure which is still lacking compared to the member states west of our borders. the particularly good news is that support is expected for ever more remote projects such as the d11 motorway link to poland, the construction of the prague-ostrava northern link following the r35/r55 via hradec králové, the d3 motorway from prague to české budějovice and on to lince, and the construction of high-speed rail links to germany and poland. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. - i am convinced that the current trans-european transport network needs a new approach. there are delays in the implementation of projects, and many projects are facing a lack of funding. the european added value needs to be better defined, priorities need to be set more precisely, more attention needs to be paid to cross-border projects and gaps in the global and core networks need to be filled. i consider the setting of binding targets for their completion to be an important impetus that should lead to increased activity and effort. i consider it a success that the amendments have succeeded in integrating the ustí nad labem dresden high-speed railway into the global network and the prague lovosice high-speed railway into the main network.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a decision on the shape of the trans-european transport networks and related investments in transport infrastructure. over the next seven years, more than €26 billion is expected to be invested in transport, which is good news for the czech republic. the connecting europe facility, together with the agreed map of trans-european transport networks, can make a significant contribution to completing the backbone infrastructure which is still lacking compared to the member states west of our borders. the particularly good news is that support is expected for ever more remote projects such as the d11 motorway link to poland, the construction of the prague-ostrava northern link following the r35/r55 via hradec králové, the d3 motorway from prague to české budějovice and on to lince, and the construction of high-speed rail links to germany and poland. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. − we do not accept the text adopted by the european parliament on how to address the financing of the iter project and the question of additional cost overruns. we believe that iter, as agreed by the parliament and council during negotiations on the 2014-2020 mff, should be funded under the ceilings of the mff and not outside as proposed by this report. therefore we are disappointed that our tabled amendment was not adopted, and as a result the ecr group abstained on the final vote.
the rapporteur of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, european territorial cooperation has been using the european regional development fund for some time. the draft proposal proposes, inter alia, to allow the use of a single account for all cash flows in connection with one cooperation programme. the proposer also aims to simplify the administration involved in dealing with project requirements. as regards the number of projects, whether in crossborder, transnational or interregional cooperation, it is right to focus on priorities. harmonization of rules and results orientation are also important. in its opinion, the committee on transport and tourism emphasises the development of crossborder transport networks, infrastructure and the exploitation of the untapped potential of border areas, including in the development of tourism.
mr president, commissioner, the result achieved is a compromise that was not born easily. on behalf of the group of european conservatives and reformists, i would like to make two comments. firstly, it concerns the european social fund's share of the cohesion policy allocation in the member states. i know some members feel that this share should be higher. however, i would like to point out that the situation is not the same in all member states. in some countries unemployment, including youth unemployment, is not as bad as in others. conversely, many countries still need investment in infrastructure. increasing the european social fund's share of the cohesion policy allocation in a member state also means reducing the european regional development fund's share, i.e. the money that is invested in infrastructure. the second thing that's in dispute is macroeconomic conditionality. i must emphasize again that our group does not support macroeconomic conditionality in principle. it is not possible for the deficit management of the state to penalise the beneficiaries and those who have no influence on the results of the state. i understand that the cleaners have a need to monitor how their money is handled. however, on the other hand, the entry of new countries into the european union has brought them enormous opportunities in terms of expanding markets and exporting goods. cohesion policy must also be seen in this light. if i may comment on the whole package of regulations, i would like to stress that there are a number of positive things in them. i appreciate the emphasis on the principle of partnership, on an integrated approach or on strengthening the role of cities in decision-making on european funds. the question is, of course, how well these innovative approaches will work in practice and how member states will deal with them. so i would like to call on the european commission today to provide and publish enough information about the preparation of implementation structures in individual countries so that we can learn from how things are being applied elsewhere. we welcome as much information as possible on partnership agreements, the partnership principle and its implementation or on operational programmes of other countries. the commission has, i believe, the means to collect and publish this information in one place on an ongoing basis. it is also strong enough to speed up negotiations with member states as much as possible so that the final beneficiaries can start implementing meaningful projects again as soon as possible.
in writing. as the eu's main financial instrument for promoting employment and economic and social cohesion, the european social fund plays a more crucial role than ever in meeting the europe 2020 objectives of improving employment levels, job quality and promoting social inclusion. we must therefore ensure that the funds from this fund are channelled to the most vulnerable groups of the population and that the fund responds to real local needs. the effective management of the esf and the cooperation of all social partners in its management and use are therefore key.
mr president, commissioner, i do not believe that the introduction of compulsory quotas is the answer. i'm afraid it will only lead to the so-called showcases being nominated by women who haven't built their careers on their own. i also believe that this is no longer the solution to the situation of women who have 'allowed' themselves to start a family alongside their professional careers. but i must say that the campaign which has been recently launched, also thanks to this proposal, is beneficial. the campaign itself and the explanation of all the problems that are related to the career of women and the reconciliation of family and professional life, open up the necessary discussion of society as a whole. and that's what can help bring about natural, positive change. in conclusion, i consider it very reasonable to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from the scope of this directive, and i also consider that family enterprises should be excluded, since that can never lead to the objective of the present case.
in writing. the recommendation to member states concerns the participation of the underrepresented sex in the management of companies, and not, as is erroneously stated, of women. the measure to increase transparency in selection procedures and to promote activities aimed at reconciling work and family life concerns companies with more than 250 employees listed on the stock exchange, even excluding companies where the underrepresented sex is less than 10% of the total number of employees. i myself see this recommendation as useful, the specific legislation is the competence of the member states, some of the relevant measures have already been established and germany is preparing legislation.
i have received three motions for resolutionssee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 21 november 2013.
the next item is the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation and exploitation of european satellite navigation systems (com(2011)0814 – c7-0464/2011 – 2011/0392(cod)) (a7-0321/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 november 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for investment products (com(2012)0352 – c7-0179/2012 – 2012/0169(cod)) (a7-0368/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 november 2013.
rapporteur. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly be voting on a legislative report that should allow two member states to use the unspent european structural funds for one more year. such was the deal made during the european council negotiations. the majority of members of the committee on regional development simply accepted the deal, despite the fact that the committee on budgets believed not just two, but all, member states should be given more time. by the way, even the council’s legal service considers this amending law to be problematic, as it does not respect the principle of equal treatment of all member states. colleagues, i have done my job as a rapporteur and negotiated in the trialogue what my colleagues wanted, despite the fact that i personally cannot support the result.
in writing. parliament wanted a budget for the citizens of the european union which could help member states cope with the consequences of the crisis by investing in jobs, research and training in the right way. despite the council's insistence on substantial cuts, we have managed to push through many of these priorities. the new budget introduces the youth guarantee, a useful tool in the fight against youth unemployment, which is currently one of the most pressing social problems. i am convinced that a compromise budget proposal is a better solution than the threat of a budgetary interim, which would throw all the beneficiaries of european subsidies into further uncertainty. i very much appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur and other colleagues in the conciliation process. but enough of the negotiations, we must now start implementing the policies. that is why i supported the report drawn up by my colleagues anne jensen and monica hohlmeier.
in writing. i consider the release of the eu solidarity fund for the czech republic to be a welcome response by the eu to the floods that hit the czech republic in june this year. although the water levels were often higher than in 2002, when the floods in central europe led to the establishment of the eu solidarity fund, the overall damage, however high, was lower, mainly due to the effective measures introduced since 2002 for flood protection and risk management. following the floods, germany submitted an application for financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund based on the criterion of major disaster. austria and the czech republic were granted aid under the so-called neighbourhood criterion. the total direct damage caused by these floods in the czech republic alone amounted to eur 637,1 million. in this context, i appreciate the czech government's swift response, which did not hesitate to turn to the european commission with a request for financial assistance, which can thus arrive as soon as possible and thus make an effective contribution to the flood relief effort.
in writing. for the third time in the last ten years, the eu solidarity fund will help the czech republic to deal with the damage caused by devastating floods. in 2002, the czech republic received over eur 100 million as a candidate country for the construction of new infrastructure following floods, and in 2010 this amounted to eur 45 million. the european parliament today approved €15.9 million to help with the flood relief efforts in june last year. these examples will help us to recall the meaning of the common european idea. it is an expression of solidarity between the rich and the less developed regions and of help to the disadvantaged in need.
in writing. the new rules for the structural funds allow for increased synergies between them and other european funds such as horizon 2020, the programme for social change and innovation (psci) or the yes europe programme through a more result-oriented approach. more than ever, the evaluation of the project's performance and its consistency with pre-defined national and regional objectives will play a role. the new legal framework promises to simplify the rules of implementation and to provide greater flexibility in the use of financial instruments in the context of deteriorating conditions in global financial markets. more thorough and stricter management and control systems need to be prepared, which may be a problem for some member states. for the period after 2013, the european structural and investment funds, with their eur 415 billion, will remain the most effective and efficient investment instruments of the multiannual financial framework to deliver growth and jobs and to relieve pressure on member states' budgets.
in writing. − i supported this report because i consider the principle of cohesion to be one of the fundamental pillars of the european union and an expression of the solidarity of the richer regions with the less developed ones. cohesion policy should fully reflect this principle over the next seven years and continue to be the union's flagship policy with a high added value for the lagging regions, promoting their growth, employment and improving the quality of life of their inhabitants. the past seven years have been the first full-fledged period of cohesion policy mobilisation for most of the new member states. lessons must be learned from this experience and the next seven years must be focused on greater efficiency and transparency. in order to prepare and deliver projects at a high level, the capacity of beneficiary countries needs to be strengthened so that projects are of genuine quality and that excesses are avoided, leading to unnecessary delays and a loss of confidence in cohesion policy in the eyes of the european public.
in writing. − today we have decided on the conditions for mobilising the european structural and cohesion funds for the period 2014-2020. i consider the result a balanced compromise. it has succeeded in cutting red tape, reducing the number of unnecessary checks and giving more room for municipalities and cities to decide how best to use the money. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. these points are unacceptable for the czech republic, because we need to implement 'hard' infrastructure projects in the first place. because everything worked out, i endorsed this report.
in writing. − today we have decided on the conditions for mobilising the european structural and cohesion funds for the period 2014-2020. i consider the result a balanced compromise. it has succeeded in cutting red tape, reducing the number of unnecessary checks and giving more room for municipalities and cities to decide how best to use the money. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to introduce quotas for women on supervisory boards because i believe that quotas of any kind are not part of the economy and business. women who want to get into these positions have no reason to be afraid of getting in. after all, many women are already in these positions. even for women themselves, it's certainly better to get ahead in fair competition than through quotas. i am therefore convinced that the quotas themselves are not dignified for women. if a woman seeking a senior management position is discriminated against, she can already claim her right through strict anti-discrimination legislation applicable to gender discrimination. in this respect, it is not necessary to introduce positive discrimination, which would only lead to the creation of artificial inequalities, and i consider it even counterproductive.
in writing. the new system of agricultural subsidies is fairer and eliminates the discrimination faced by farmers from the new member states, including czech farmers. under a system of equal conditions, czech farmers will have the chance to prove that they are competitive both in terms of quality of production and in terms of costs. from the czech republic's point of view, it is crucial that, compared to the original drastic proposals, there is only a symbolic reduction in subsidies for large agricultural holdings. in a tough confrontation with the european commission and the southern lobby fighting for small farmers and small farms, the interests of czech agriculture were successfully protected. the end of the milk quota (2015) and the sugar quota (2017) means the end of price regulation, and thus of the market distortion that rewards speculators and punishes those who are able to produce quality and cheaply. less planning and more free markets is the right way forward for european agriculture.
in writing. − the legislative report should allow two member states to use unspent european structural funds for one more year. this deal has been made during negotiations in the european council. the majority on parliamentʼs committee on regional development simply accepted the deal despite the fact that the committee on budgets believed that not just two, but all member states should be given more time so that no one is unprivileged. by the way, even the councilʼs legal service considers this amending law to be problematic as the result does not respect the principle of equal treatment of all member states. i as rapporteur have done my job and negotiated in the trialogue what my colleagues wanted. however given the fact that the result is not in the interest of my fellow czech citizens, i have abstained during the vote.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution that the european parliament should have the right to decide where it will sit. at a time when budget cuts and austerity measures are being implemented across the eu, the european parliament should also be looking for ways to reduce costs and avoid unnecessary spending. the current system of three european parliament seats is an inefficient luxury that we cannot afford in the eu. the additional costs resulting from the geographical dispersion of the european parliament's seats are estimated at at least eur 200 million, which represents approximately 10% of the annual budget of the european parliament. given that each plenary session requires the transport of 5 000 meps and staff and eight document trucks, the current situation also generates unnecessary environmental, organisational and logistical costs additional co2 emissions are estimated to be between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes. the parliament's buildings in strasbourg are currently unused 89% of the time (only 42 days a year), but heating, staffing and maintenance are required throughout the year.
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. - mr president, from the point of view of regional development, horizon 2020 is a good basis for taking account of the scientific and research needs of the european union, while ensuring a certain degree of synergy with cohesion policy. i would personally like to see a much closer link between the science and research money from brussels and the structural funds. i would like to see uniform rules, a single information point and, where possible, a common assessment process. i would also like to emphasise here that horizon 2020 should also take greater account of the european union's geographical diversity in practice, thereby triggering the regional dimension of science and research policy. in the czech republic, most of the major scientific projects take place in and around the capital city of prague, and possibly in up to three other large cities, with many cities, including my home town of hradec králové, which is the eighth most populous city, being on the periphery of interest in this respect, which is a pity in my opinion.
madam president, commissioner, horizon 2020 is a programme that should help fund science in europe. it is a continuation of the seventh framework programme project. i'm glad that a lot of the experiences from the past are being addressed by the new program. it certainly makes sense to promote really excellent research. the programme should not be just an opportunity to seek funding, but should support exceptional projects. on the other hand, the principle of excellence should not be an objective barrier based on the administrative inclusion of workplaces in the statistical list. the strict assessment of the success of the projects accepted in the global competition is certainly very important throughout the programme. one of the criteria for comparison is also the impact on the growth of the european union's competitiveness. in any case, it is very important to reduce the administrative burden for project submission, because for the seventh framework programme this was a real barrier and many research centres did not even enter the projects because it was really too difficult. i am glad that it was in horizon 2020 that we were able to change this, thanks to the very good cooperation of my fellow rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and of course the commission.
for the ecr group. commissioner, i hope you are doing well. i must say that i always listen with interest to your remarks on the promotion of business and economic growth in the european union in general and almost always agree with them. i have two comments on this subject. one concerns a report adopted by the european parliament at my instigation on financing for trade and investment by smes in the european union and on easier access to credit. it was 12 november 2012, and i'm glad that you're actually already responding to something in that report with concrete actions here, and i hope that this will continue, that the commission will continue to do this. the second thing that i think is important is to really put together some kind of deregulation plan. we're talking about reducing unnecessary administrative and regulatory burdens. let us admit that a whole series of legislative acts that are in force in the european union are superfluous, outdated and that we should be able to repeal them, we should be able to exclude them from the european legal package. it's just an impulse that i think is very useful.
the draftsman of the committee on budgets. - mr president, in its opinion the committee on budgets drew attention to the fact that the customs and tax areas have very different legal bases and have hitherto been managed at european union level by the separate programmes customs 2013 and fiscalis 2013. we therefore did not support the replacement of these programmes by the single fiscus programme, as originally proposed by the commission. the two programmes have different and specific objectives and therefore there should be different legal provisions for their implementation, evaluation, monitoring and control. the committee on budgets supports the work of both fiscalis 2020 and customs 2020 and has therefore tabled a number of amendments and requests their support in the vote.
mr president, i am pleased that the court of auditors has concluded that the consolidated accounts for 2012 present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european union. the auditors did not find any significant error in the revenue and payment commitments. however, it appears that the policy group most prone to error remains rural development programmes ( 7.9%) and expenditure on structural measures ( 6.8%). from the point of view of the czech mep, i am glad that the czech republic is not mentioned in the 2012 annual report in the same critical spirit as in the previous report, which revealed serious errors in the work of the national audit authority of the ministry of finance. i am confident that the czech republic will successfully implement the action plan to remedy the identified shortcomings and that the new pro-european government will ensure better use of european funds. in view of the real reduction in the funds available in the next multiannual financial framework, it is precisely the improvement of the efficiency of expenditure that needs to be addressed.
in writing. i consider it a significant change in horizon 2020 that energy issues are given a prominent place in the 8th framework programme compared to the 7th framework programme. the energy budget in the eighth framework programme was therefore significantly increased, as requested by the european parliament in its numerous resolutions. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following undertakings: the undertakings concerned, the beneficiaries, the beneficiaries of the aid and the beneficiaries of the aid. the synergy between the structural funds and the framework programme has been applied with mixed and rather embarrassing results. however, the achievement of the smart growth target set out in the eu 2020 strategy makes cooperation between the two instruments inevitable in this new programming period. for cooperation to work, it is essential that regional authorities are aware of r & d and innovation initiatives coming from universities, businesses and research centres and use their own smart development strategies to support them. it is also important that the national and regional authorities can rely on expert advice when designing these strategies and that the various commission services cooperate in their evaluation.
in writing. − i supported the resulting compromise of parliament and the council on horizon 2020, the new framework for funding european research, development and innovation for 2014-2020, which builds on the current seventh framework programme while bringing some major changes to gradually increase the competitiveness of european industry as well as to applications in everyday life. research will also be newly focused on the social field. i also welcome the increased emphasis on providing better opportunities for scientists who want to expand their knowledge and on the overall simplification of the programme.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, democracy is not thriving. this is the conclusion of the author of a modern czech song about the current situation in the czech republic. if, according to the international trade union confederation (ituc), an average of 200 workers from india and the same number from nepal die each year in qatar, then it is high time to take a clear position on the situation of these workers, because the lack of democracy in qatar is much more pronounced. it is clear that the standards of the international labour organization are a completely unknown matter here. if this parliament often criticises even the apparent human rights failings of other countries, then even the most forceful resolution adopted in the case of qatar is only a weak expression of our urgent disapproval of the current state of affairs. the joint motion for a resolution is warmly supported by the confederation of the european united left and the nordic green left and i am a little surprised that the european people's party group in particular is unable to agree with the others on such a clear-cut issue.
we will refer the matter to the relevant authority. catch-the-eye procedure
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(1) of the rules of procedure. the joint debate is closed. the vote on the report by lívia járóka will take place on tuesday, 10 december 2013 and the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place on thursday, 12 december 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing the european parliament’s recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for an eu-canada strategic partnership agreement (2013/2133(ini)) (a7-0407/2013).
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. − madam president, commissioner, as we all know, the fundamental change in the new proposal is the merging of the so-called revised version of the union civil protection mechanism and the 2007 civil protection financial instrument into a single legal act. it is indeed high time to discuss and vote on this proposal, since it is desirable to approve it by the end of this year, when the financial instrument expires. the amended proposal from the european commission aims to simplify existing procedures for transport sharing and co-financing and to introduce simplified rules for the activation of the civil protection mechanism in the event of an emergency in a third country, thus significantly reducing the administrative burden for both the european commission and the member states. that's certainly the way forward. from the point of view of the committee on regional development, i would like to recall that the basic principle of civil protection should be to solve problems at the lowest possible level. in this respect, we must not forget the relevant public authorities, including regional and local authorities, which are closest to the problem.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to help workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. through co-financing, it seeks to facilitate their reintegration into employment. since 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to help workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in the czech republic, this fund, which has an annual budget of eur 500 million, has been used only once. i consider it a very important tool in helping workers made redundant, which is why i supported the report on the mobilisation of the egf for the nokia case in finland.
in writing. measures to enhance road safety and vehicle safety are among the union's long-term priorities. as rapporteur for the regulation on the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle emergency call service, i therefore welcome the fact that the report considers the introduction of a system that will allow vehicles to automatically contact emergency services in the event of a serious accident to be an integral part of the action plan, and i therefore supported the report. intelligent transport systems, including ecall, promote innovation and contribute to the competitiveness of european industry in global markets. it is no coincidence that the pilot project for the introduction of ecall is being closely monitored in japan, with countries such as qatar and new zealand actively involved. in russia, ecall will be launched even earlier than in the eu. after more than a decade of discussions, we have all the necessary legislative measures on the table for the launch of ecall in europe from 2015. we see this date not only as a commitment to all road users, but also as an opportunity to enhance the prestige of the european automotive industry.
in writing. - the czech members of parliament for the civic democratic party (ods), which is part of the european conservatives and reformists group, are staunch supporters of the automotive industry. we are convinced that the european automotive industry should return to the top of the global scale despite the current economic and financial crisis. however, we do not share the view expressed in the report adopted by the european parliament on how to achieve this objective. we are particularly concerned that the report calls on member states to harmonise tax incentives and subsidies or explicitly calls on the commission to adopt a protectionist trade policy. the members of the ods therefore abstained.
in writing. − if you have i have decided to support the report by mrs estrella on sexual and reproductive health and rights. unfortunately, her proposal failed by seven conservative votes, giving rise to false fears that the subsidiarity principle had been breached. this argument is again used by the conservatives to argue that the objectives can be satisfactorily achieved at national level, which is illusory in this case because of the enormous differences between member states. the report was intended to guarantee access to proper healthcare throughout the european union, to contribute to the expansion of access to contraception and to the right of women to decide their future in the event of unintended pregnancies, especially among young girls. and it's been shown that adolescent mothers are less likely to have a better education and more likely to face poverty in later life. the european parliament has today by a narrow majority failed to take advantage of this opportunity, to support the rights of women and girls, and to throw away years of progress in women's rights. i regret that the conservatives have once again abused the principle of subsidiarity and joined the far right, which denies the eu's fundamental principles such as human dignity, freedom, equality and the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. − as a member of the european conservatives and reformists group, i voted against the report. in my view, the european union should be concerned with promoting the free market, not with restricting personal freedoms and interfering with the exclusive competences of the member states. the constant quest to regulate all areas of human activity is precisely the malignant tumor of european integration and the reason for the justifiably growing euroscepticism.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me thank the commissioner for the hard work he has done. let me also thank and congratulate the lithuanian presidency for a very well organised summit. some people say the summit was a failure. i personally do not think so. we initiated agreements with moldova and georgia, and the commissioner has already mentioned the other achievements, which i do not have time to repeat here. what we have to do now is to look at how we can help moldovans, georgians, ukrainians and others in a concrete way. for instance, how we can speed up projects connecting the eu with those countries in terms of energy, so that there is energy security and these countries are not left to the mercy of their big eastern neighbour. visa facilitation and the visa-free regime is another aspect we should be looking at. we should also have as many contacts as possible with members of civil society, which is another way we should be going. also, of course, we should be helping the people of ukraine, who have expressed in a clear way that they want to join the european union and that they accept western values and what they stand for. this is our moral duty and we should work out a policy on how to help those people in a concrete way.
in writing. the results of the vilnius summit show that the european union has been tragically wrong in its eastern policy in recent years, if its officials are serious about what they went to lithuania with last week. some of them feel that it is the age of the fearless missionaries again, bringing the only truth to the savages out in the wilderness. the new god is nothing but the traditional golden calf of the apostles of neoliberalism, which hides behind truth and love. human rights are being eroded at every turn in relation to 'partners' and violated in relation to the citizens of the european union. if it were otherwise, it would not be possible that, after decades of development and solidarity, the southern wing of the eu is facing economic disaster. the multinational monopolies are profiting more and more brazenly from the whole situation. the eastern partnership is a misnomer for the dictate of eu countries to those who would like to achieve the possibility of becoming true equal partners in the spirit of europe's shared historical values. but you can't dictate to your partners. the proposals we present to the partners must involve action by both parties, not just one. the eu negotiators have forgotten this truth at some point, and now, instead of organizing riots, it is time to finally acknowledge the need to deal with non-eu states as real partners.
rapporteur. − madam president, after one and a half years of intense interinstitutional negotiations, a comprehensive agreement was reached on the legal text to govern the funding of enlargement for the next seven-year period to the sum of more than eur 11 billion. the ipa ii regulation builds on ipa i, but brings about several important innovations that will make the eu’s pre-accession assistance more flexible, more targeted and more clearly tied to the substantive reform progress on the ground, with particular focus on the rule of law and fundamental rights – which is of course very important to us. for the first time parliament took part in this process as co-legislator on equal footing with the council, as envisaged by the lisbon treaty. the compromise reached with the lithuanian presidency is reasonable and realistic and reflects the key political priorities of this house, the european parliament. allow me briefly to highlight the main achievements of parliament in the negotiations leading to the final legislative text. firstly the regulation will include a detailed and comprehensive set of specific objectives of pre-accession assistance, ensuring its coherence and also setting a broader framework for the enlargement policy. many of the specific objectives reflect in substance the ideas and input of parliament. secondly the prerogatives of parliament in setting policy priorities, monitoring implementation and exercising budgetary control has been safeguarded and even extended, which strengthens our legal and political role in the enlargement process as a whole. of course a very important element for parliament is that the increased role of this house lends more democratic legitimacy to the entire exercise, and that is exactly what we need if the policy is to move forward without fear of a popular backlash from our voters at home. in this context it is significant that specific objects of ipa ii will be implemented through thematic priorities as listed in the annex and which may be modified by a delegated act at mid-term if developments so require. this is a way for the new parliament to have a say as regards possible changes in light of evolving situations in the accession process. moreover in the political framework for ipa pre-assistance, parliament resolutions, such as the progress reports, will now have to be taken into account in much the same way as the commission’s progress reports; the fact that this stipulation will become legally binding represents an important achievement by parliament. thirdly upon parliament’s insistence, performance incentives were introduced into the regulation; this is a completely new tool as far as enlargement financing is concerned. fourthly, again upon parliament’s insistence, the regulation stipulates that detailed indicators are to be used in order to measure countries’ performances and draw appropriate conclusions for decisions on assistance. finally a number of horizontal elements such as the civil society, local stakeholders and the visibility and impact of assistance will be specifically addressed in the ipa ii regulation. i think overall it is a very good compromise. and in this context allow me to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to mr vigenin, who was our first ep negotiator on ipa and now co-sponsors this regulation from the council side, and of course i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, ms neynsky, mr kukan, ms cornelissen, mr tannock and mr meyer. all of them i think cooperated in an excellent manner and supported these difficult negotiations. of course i would also like to thank the lithuanian presidency for this very good result.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me just stress again the conclusion of this legislative process as far as the enlargement package is concerned. as i said, we have a good compromise without which we would not be credible in the western balkans, in turkey, or in the eyes of our voters. so to achieve those conclusions a compromise was necessary and here i refer especially the issue of beneficiaries or beneficiary countries, as ms cornelissen mentioned. so that was our compromise. without that compromise we would not have that package. but i think, as i have already stressed, that we have very good forward-looking legislation which will bring benefits to enlargement countries and which i think will also be a gain, because of the involvement of parliament, in our credibility in our home countries, in member states, for our voters. so once more, thanks to all the shadows, thanks to the lithuanian presidency and to the commission. i think we have a good deal and good legislation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, albania made huge progress in 2013. most importantly, for the first time, there was a peaceful transition of power. before the elections and also after the elections, a whole number of important reforms were made and now i would like to give thanks to the current government but also to the current opposition. our message should be for them to carry on in the same way and to work together, no matter who is in power and who is in opposition. what is needed is that all political forces work together on that goal of joining the european union. that is also a message to civil society. a number of reforms have to be made. in reports we talk about administrative reform, judicial reform and the fight against corruption and so on and so forth. that is necessary and it is a process, but i think albania is on the right track. albania is also playing a very constructive role as far as regional cooperation is concerned. there is an opportunity now to work with albania’s neighbours, whether it is montenegro, which is already negotiating, or serbia, which hopefully will start negotiating soon. there is a need to support the rapprochement process between belgrade and pristina. there is also need to help the neighbours in macedonia in fyrom, and i think albania can play a very positive and very constructive role – a role which it has been playing up to now and which it can play in the future. the granting of the candidate status is the right step forward, but we would also like to encourage all albanian political forces and authorities to consolidate this process achieved so far and make an additional effort to enable a positive decision on the opening of accession negotiations. of course the conditions have to be met, but it is up to the albanian authorities to work in that direction.
in writing. i consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be one of the most effective pro-growth measures to help create jobs by supporting workers made redundant. the new fund for the period 2014-2020 builds on the success of the previous one, which had a re-employment rate of min. 48,1%. it is appropriate to extend the category of workers supported and the chapter on youth unemployment. i also welcome the increase in the co-financing rate to 60% from the original 50% proposed by the commission. a financial aid ceiling of 35% of the total cost is also introduced to ensure that workers benefit in particular from vocational training and guidance and that member states are therefore not able to use the fund as a substitute for unemployment benefits. i am convinced that the new fund will be an opportunity for recovery in regions with high unemployment, in our home region of moravia and northern bohemia. the czech republic has drawn the least from the budget in the past period compared to other countries, with only eur 300 000 compared to eur 60 million for the most successful italy. we need to work with the new government to fix this. however, it must be remembered that the fund is designed to support 'soft' projects and, in order to ensure the future competitiveness of european industry, it is essential to make conceptual investments, as proposed by the rise strategy for the recovery of european industry.
for the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i certainly welcome the fact that we will be voting on the fact that it is in the interest of the european union to ratify the 2011 ilo convention on decent work for domestic workers. in recent years we have seen repeatedly that the institutions of the european union have arrogantly ignored the importance of the international labour organisation. the most striking example is the recent proposal by the european commission for a working time directive, which was rejected by the european parliament after massive protest by trade unions. the convention stipulates that ratifying states are obliged to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse of women or even children in domestic work. many countries, especially those from which the migration flows originate, have ratified the convention. of the member states of the european union, only italy has ratified the convention. germany and belgium are due to ratify in the near future. unfortunately, the convention only applies to workers in normal employment. it does not apply to those working as self-employed or undocumented workers. i hope that most member states will not treat the convention as the czech republic did, where the government took note of it but refused to ratify it on the grounds that the issue is more relevant to developing countries. i would like to conclude by expressing my hope that the international labour organisation will regain the seriousness it had in the 1990s. and finally, a big thank you to the rapporteur, mrs zuber.
mr president, commissioner, i consider that one of the most important topics of the forthcoming december european council is the strengthening of the european defence industry. not only does the defence industry employ some 400 000 people, but the changing focus on security is also raising financial and technological demands. the changing security risks and the increasing need for military humanitarian interventions, including the elimination of growing terrorist activities, require new procedures and bring new technical requirements. the complexity of the actions, often at great distances, requires the participation of several member states with transport requirements and the provision of the necessary support facilities for the intervention units. it is therefore important to ensure not only maximum compatibility of the technology used but also the optimal use of the defence capabilities of individual member states in joint operations. reduced maintenance and operating costs can also be of interest to member states with tight national budgets. at the same time, it creates the possibility of a larger scale of supply for the defence industry itself. dynamic smes can play a major role in reducing the dependence on the purchase of specialised technologies outside the eu member states. it is also a guarantee of future defence capability. but i think it is essential to maintain maximum coordination with existing nato systems.
in writing. the last european council summit of the year will focus on the pillars of european integration the common security policy and economic and social policy. the common economic and social policy has been the subject of intense debate in the member states during the years of crisis, and is perceived as inadequate and therefore failing. the member states should therefore put the emphasis at this european council on economic and social policy issues: on promoting youth employment, on tackling economic problems which are always at the root of social tensions which create security risks. it is europe's internal and social security that is at stake, not its external security. therefore, the implementation of the eu's common security policy should not be competitive with the rest of the world, but should realistically focus on harmonising and integrating more closely those areas of security that are similar between member states and where efficiency gains and cost reductions can be achieved. the common airspace of the czech republic, slovakia and hungary is an example of a promising regional cooperation practice. the summit should, above all, strengthen the common social policy, which can effectively reduce the security risks facing europe today - internal social tensions and social exclusion.
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists group, let me remind you that the european union is first and foremost an international organisation, created by the will of its member states. and it was the sovereign member states of the european union that defined the rights and obligations, set up the competent bodies, including the european council, and defined the objectives of their work. i therefore see with a raised eyebrow the attempt by some of my colleagues to restrict, control or otherwise regulate what member states do and how they manage an established international organisation. i am also surprised at the use of the term 'legislative theft', which i do not think should be in the european parliament's resolution. ladies and gentlemen, i agree that there is a need for a more intensive dialogue between the institutions of the european union, between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, but also with the representatives of the member states, as well as with the representatives of the national parliaments, regional and municipal representatives. this dialogue must be partnership-based, unencumbered by the pursuit of power or control. i therefore agree with the thesis in the report that it would be inappropriate to question the members of the european council or other national policies. but i do not agree that we should interfere with the competence of the member states. in my view, for example, it must be entirely up to the member states to propose the personalities they want to nominate for the future european commission. we, the members of the european parliament, then have the right to approve or disapprove the commission. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i would like to answer and repeat more or less what i have stated. i think it's up to the nation states to appoint their representative as such. we have had many reservations in the european parliament about individual members, but in the end this can only lead to a rejection of the commission as a whole and we cannot in any way reserve ourselves to individual members.
commissioner, access to a basic payment account is now almost a necessity of everyday life. yet, it is not yet self-evident. consumers in the european union, and we are talking about 25 million europeans who would like to have a basic payment account but do not have one whether students on a foreign traineeship or people who work abroad for a short period they all face problems, for example, when they cannot open a payment account in a member state where they are not resident. to promote mobility and social inclusion in europe, access to a basic payment account must be ensured for all, regardless of financial situation, employment, credit history or place of residence. this proposal is therefore a step in the right direction. i'm very glad that it also remembers those who already use bank accounts. for example, it will be easier for consumers to compare charges for payment accounts across the european union. i am convinced that this proposal, which seeks to address the inequalities between consumers and the banking sector, will bring its services closer to the citizens, and that is only a good thing. thank you to everyone who contributed to the report.
for the ecr group. mr president, allow me to begin with a reflection which was in some ways also initiated by mr pittella, who, by the way, managed his report with the usual italian charm. he said that the economic situation in the european union, as i recall, is catastrophic. i think we should ask ourselves why that is. and this makes me wonder whether it is not the case that the european social model, which is already apparently unfinanciable and expensive, and the existence of the single euro, which creates pressure to homogenize very different regions and countries, leading to a loss of competitiveness, are contributing to this situation. well, for starters, what the reporter urged me to do. now for the report i consider that the report deals with a number of very serious points, namely the problems of credit financing for smes. in europe, businesses traditionally obtain capital for their further development and investment from the banking sector, rather than from the capital market as is common in anglo-saxon countries. a healthy banking sector is therefore absolutely crucial for european businesses. on the contrary, the uncertainty in the banking sector and the shift of attention from desirable, i would say necessary, financing of innovation and investment to financing of more secure public debt is having a negative impact on the output of smes, their investments, which are essential for the recovery of the european economy as a whole, which is also having a negative impact on employment. furthermore, the rescue of national banks through the european central bank is very problematic from my point of view. it's just taking the problem to a higher level, where it's not clearly defined who's going to pay the cost. the european central bank could easily become a dumping ground for worthless assets, which could be problematic for its long-term development. the report also foresees the need for monetary intervention to strengthen the euro. this is unacceptable, since the exchange rate, as the market price of one currency expressed in terms of the currency of the other, is to be determined by the market. the manipulation of exchange rates to enhance competitiveness may bring short-term export gains, but in the long run it leads to inflation and price destabilisation as well as to a reduction in confidence in the euro.
in writing. we are still in an economic crisis, as confirmed by the commission services' spring 2013 forecast, which shows that euro area gdp will decline by 0,6% in 2012 after rising by 1,4% in 2011 and by 0,4% in 2013. these figures mean that the eu is still failing to tackle high unemployment, especially among young people. according to the same forecast, unemployment in the euro area rose from 10,2% at the end of 2011 to 11,4% at the end of 2012 and may rise further to 12,2% in 2013. the unemployment rate in the euro area varied widely between countries, ranging from 4.3% to 25%, with youth unemployment, which increased significantly during this period, reaching even higher levels. in this respect, i welcome the measures taken by the ecb in 2012 which have contributed to the stabilisation of the banking sector and helped to break the link between banks and sovereign debt. at the same time, however, the european banking system remains fragile and needs to be restructured and consolidated through the creation of a genuine banking union. i think that the european economy should be more growth-oriented and not just about austerity measures that threaten this economic growth.
the debate that's going on here is very interesting, there's a lot of things that we can agree on, a lot of things that we can't agree on, but we haven't had a single conversation here about the causes of this condition. what we're dealing with here are consequences, and we're dealing with solutions for consequences. the reasons are high taxation in individual member states, the lack of transparency in individual tax jurisdictions, the fact that there are other countries outside our borders where taxes are lower and where taxpayers move their tax residences, and the fact that taxpayers, when they look at how their individual countries handle the taxes they collect, simply do not have the will to pay their taxes and use every opportunity the tax code gives them to avoid tax liability. the group of european conservatives and reformists supports any action that will lead to individual member states simplifying their tax codes, to individual member states progressively reducing the tax burden on their taxpayers, to limiting the scope for meaningless subsidies and for gigantic redistributions of tax money. we support all these activities. we do not support calls for harmonization of tax rates, but we do not support calls for harmonization of tax bases either, because tax is calculated as a multiple, as a product of tax and base, and therefore it does not matter what you harmonize. we disagree with these practices, and at the same time - and this is perhaps more of an academic thing - we wonder if it would not be better for us to try to approximate the conditions in tax havens rather than to fight meaningless battles with them.
mr president, i shall continue what the speaker from my political group, mr strejček, has started. certainly, the fight against the grey economy, against tax evasion, against criminal behaviour is necessary and no one here questions or denies it. but i would like to warn against one thing: it seems that this very noble intention is to serve later on as a pretext for the pursuit of other objectives in tax harmonization. and i want to warn you about that, because we simply cannot agree to that. the harmonisation of taxes, whether direct or indirect, and of tax bases will have two negative effects on the european economy. firstly, it will be a loss of competitiveness with the world, because there will be an overall increase in the tax burden, taxes will be levelled upwards, not downwards, and secondly, it will be the elimination of tax competition within the european union, and competition is the engine of every economy. so i would ask that the commission and parliament do not try to exploit this noble initiative to promote tax harmonization.
