i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 13 december 2012.
i am not going to go into detail. the insidious murder of three kurdish activists, sakine cansiz, fidan dogan and leyla söylemez, last week in paris, has shocked us all deeply. on behalf of the european parliament, i have written to the parents of the victims to express our deepest condolences. fidan dogan's parents, sister and brothers live in strasbourg and are here with us today. i welcome you to our house and on behalf of the house, i extend our deepest sympathies. (applause from the centre) the deaths of mrs dogan, mrs cansiz and mrs söylemez must not go unpunished. we support the french authorities in their determination to do everything possible to investigate these crimes and bring those responsible to justice. ladies and gentlemen of the dogan family, i know how difficult this is for you. we are not going to be able to do that, and i am afraid that the commission will not be able to do that.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 140, has been distributed. first of all, i have a request from mr van dalen, who has informed me in writing that he wishes to speak on the agenda.
mr van dalen, that is not an item on the agenda for this part-session. i would be grateful if you could briefly tell me what you have just asked. i shall then forward it to the appropriate bodies and tell you how and when we can discuss this matter in the house.
it might be useful to forward the judgment to the federal constitutional court of the federal republic of germany.
mr tannock, i am sorry, but obviously this request has not been received here by official channels. i'm going to look into why that didn't happen. perhaps you will do the same with your group. we have not received any official request to change the agenda for this week until 4 p.m. i'm sorry about that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know whether i am adding to the general confusion: according to my information, catherine ashton has offered to come to strasbourg not on wednesday but on tuesday, that is to say tomorrow. and she has also offered to talk to us, if we change our agenda, both about mali and about syria and also about the requested subject of serbia and kosovo. i can say on behalf of my group that i am in favour of changing the agenda and if lady ashton can come here tomorrow to discuss these three subjects with her. (applause from the centre)
mrs harms, you have not added to the confusion, but rather helped to clarify it. mrs. ashton hasn't contacted me since the weekend. i have to establish that here and now to counteract any rumors. however, i received a call from the services of this house at the weekend and was informed that mrs ashton's office had made exactly this offer, indicating that she would not be able to come in february. in february, it is actually obliged by the treaty to come to parliament, just as it would have been obliged by the treaty to come to parliament in november. i have therefore asked my office to consult the political groups on whether they want to change the agenda, because that is the basic requirement. in order to change the agenda, the amendments must be tabled by 4 p.m. today, and then i can change the agenda according to our rules of procedure. no group has asked for this. (interruption of the debate) no, the house is not sovereign on this matter. we have a code of conduct, and i'm obliged to follow it. i'm really sorry about that. then your group should have tabled this motion by 4 p.m.
mr. davis, i think that is great! if you are now making this fundamental decision here, which is contrary to the rules of procedure, that the president is deciding on the flexibility to be applied in an emergency. i love that! otherwise i am always criticized for not respecting the rules of procedure. so if you say i should take it in hand, i will. the rules of procedure are clear and state the following: the agenda may not be amended after its adoption, except in the case of the application of rule 142 or on a proposal from the president. that means i can propose to change the agenda. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) mrs. harms, i understand what you want. i am only trying to comply with your wishes without breaking the rules of procedure. the debate will take place on wednesday. but mrs ashton said she couldn't come until tuesday. i will now try to tell mrs ashton, today, that we want her to come to the debate. that would mean wednesday. if she cannot do so by wednesday, i will try to resolve the problem with the group chairmen by tomorrow. it's the only way i can do this. i repeat, the debate is scheduled for wednesday. i will now try to bring lady ashton here for wednesday. if you do not want to come on wednesday, i will consult the group chairmen on how we can conduct the debate. i note, however, ladies and gentlemen, that you have now agreed that in cases of doubt as to the interpretation of the rules of procedure, the president decides on the agenda. thank you, thank you. (interruption: one time!) this is the first time i've seen this. no, no, not even, basically! that's how it's written in the minutes. thank you very much.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all: happy new year to everyone. i think this is very important information from the commission. vice-president/high representative ashton is available tomorrow to discuss this matter if the house is interested, but unfortunately not on wednesday. (interjection: ‘why not?’) because of her diary. i wanted you to know that.
lord andor, i have been sent to you. thank you very much, we were just about to find out. i'm going to talk to cathy ashton now. i would like to make a general point, which applies to the commission as well as to the council: in no national parliament would it be conceivable that a minister would not heed the call of parliament. (applause from the centre) i note that the european parliament is making an urgent appeal to the high representative to come here on wednesday. i'll talk to her about that first. if there are compelling reasons, we can still try - and i shall do so later today - to find a compromise. but the principle is that, first of all, as a member of the commission or a member of the council or a high representative, you cannot say that you will not go to parliament because your schedule does not allow it. i must say that parliament will not accept such disrespect. (applause from the centre) the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 january 2012 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: thursday:the gue group has asked for a change in the planned urgencies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to you for having already given a statement on the murder of the three kurdish women activists in paris last week. i am very grateful to you for this, and i believe that this is a unique event here in europe for at least 20 years, that people are murdered in this way in a member country of the european union. i therefore ask on behalf of my group that we go a step further and replace the agenda item on bahrain on thursday with an agenda item on the murder of the three kurdish activists, and also adopt a short, concise but clear resolution on this subject. this resolution should deal, firstly, with our strong condemnation of this murder, secondly, with our request to the french authorities, and also our call for them to do everything possible to apprehend the perpetrators, and thirdly, with our support for the process of talks, this process of negotiations between the turkish government and öcalan. that is what my group is asking for.
mrs. zimmer, i need to ask you a few questions. i think you asked for the item on bahrain to be removed from the agenda. who votes for this motion? who votes against this motion?
i have to ask you if you can accept that. that's the case. i would be grateful if you would table the motion for the next agenda in february. the agenda for thursday remains unchanged. (the agenda is therefore adopted.) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the next item is the report by mr alejandro cercas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on information and consultation of workers, anticipation and management of restructuring (2012/2061 (ini)) (a7-0390/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i thank the rapporteur for a very good report. since 2008, we have had more than 5400 major restructuring events in the eu, and around 1.8 million jobs have been lost as a result of these restructurings. many of them have shown very serious shortcomings, whether in the lack of information, in the lack of timely information to the workers, or in the consequences. we cannot and will not prevent the restructuring of companies, because it is important that companies also adapt to new economic conditions. but it is also important to remember that restructuring always puts a great deal of strain on the workers, the region and the surrounding economy. it doesn't have to be! there are many good models for how to cushion hardships and negative impacts. it is therefore important that we now present at european level, following such good examples, a legal instrument which will regulate future social restructuring and act in the interests of the people of europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are many reasons for improving workers' rights and participation in restructuring and relocation of firms and enterprises. the initiative we have is a good one. the commission must present a legal framework setting minimum european standards for the protection of workers. but this report does contain some good proposals, including the question of dismissal as a last resort, the obligation to provide continuing training for workers at risk and the right to re-employment of dismissed workers. the report is, however, watered down in many respects by the right wing of this parliament and is, on the whole, inadequate. the 'should', 'could' and 'may' are not sufficient as a legal framework for strong workers' rights. the continuing priority given to freedom of establishment is unacceptable, and the interests of workers and society are once again placed at the back of the agenda also in this report. there is no real participation. the question of the socialisation of the costs of corporate restructuring is raised again and again. that, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough. information, consultation and advice are not enough. we need stronger workers' rights and we need more democracy in the economy in europe. that is why we shall table additional, stronger amendments in the plenary. the report and the mandate to the commission are not sufficient.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reality is very complex and accordingly there are many different reasons for restructuring. the challenges vary accordingly. this is why a medium-sized company facing sales problems is not affected in the same way as a group which has been affected by a merger. the report by mr cercas contains many different and good proposals. but they don't always fit every situation. restructuring is simply a necessary process. that is also a very central point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's competitiveness is maintained. it is not a value in itself, but competitiveness creates jobs and, above all, safeguards them. you have to keep reminding yourself of that. for example, in germany there is a widespread discussion about a shortage of skilled workers. that's why companies won't just lay off workers. firms do not always automatically prefer redundancies. that too should be kept in mind.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the youth employment guarantee (o-000219/2012 - b7-0554/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. with youth unemployment at over 20% in the eu and almost 50% in some countries , there is no longer any question that we need to act urgently, not with measures that will take effect in a few years, but with measures that will actually offer young people the opportunity to regain their perspective in the short and medium term. that is why we liberals support a youth guarantee in principle. we don't want a generation to be lost completely. at the same time, however, it must be said that a youth guarantee cannot be a job guarantee. the jobs themselves, the jobs, are created by the economy, and we cannot magically bring them about through an eu programme. but a youth guarantee can help young people to find a job, to reduce the barriers they already have, to enable them to get an education, to reduce the deficits they have. at the beginning of this year, for example, a new programme was launched in germany, the programme to promote the vocational mobility of young people interested in training and unemployed young professionals from europe. the aim is to enable young people who either have not yet received training or who have received training but have no work to come to germany. it makes sense to combine initiatives from the member states with a european youth guarantee. this youth guarantee must and can be financed by the european social fund. that's what the money's for. it is now that europe can show that we have the potential for a european labour market and that we can move in this direction, so that together we can give young people a future perspective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. youth unemployment in greece and spain is an unacceptable 55%, and in my home country of germany it is 8%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in december 2012, commissioner, you presented a package to combat unemployment, which we very much welcome. a key element of the european youth guarantee is an idea from the european parliament. i proposed it in my report on generational justice back in october 2010. the aim is to provide every young person with a job, apprenticeship or further training after four months of unemployment. the skills not achieved but necessary must be able to be retrieved, since the willingness to work always includes the ability to work. this guarantee, based on the esf, is based on the principle of 'call and support'. those who avail themselves of it will be willing to accept the measures offered in their own interest. she can't be a social hammock. let us prevent young people from being excluded! qualified young people make an important contribution to shaping the future of our companies. it is essential that member states invest more in education and training systems. six european countries are also planning to adopt the german dual system of education. my government is supporting the project with a start-up grant of ten million euros, an optimistic signal!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council has broadly described youth unemployment as the greatest problem of the crisis. now we expect those words to be followed by action. the only credible solution would be a mandatory youth guarantee, i.e. a right which can be invoked by young people in each member state, and of course measures, i.e. employment and training opportunities for young people. the eu must ensure this youth guarantee in the member states by means of review mechanisms in the european semester. but we also appeal to the commission. we also expect the commission to follow its words with action. we in the european parliament have proposed that the progress instrument for social change and innovation and the esf should provide such a guarantee to disadvantaged young people. we are facing fierce opposition from the commission representatives as well. i say to mr andor: stick to your word, drop your objections and agree to our proposals!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we cannot fight youth unemployment with empty words, but it is clear: we must take money into our hands. the good example of austria shows how it works. as rapporteur for the social change and innovation programme, i have initiated a youth axis which could help us to launch the youth initiative you have proposed throughout europe. parliament intends to promote projects by sharing good examples and learning from each other, which is exactly what you want. we do not understand why the commission and the heads of government of the member states are saying 'yes, we want to fight this throughout europe' but are not ready to support this good initiative of the european parliament. the heads of government should be ashamed of themselves, because this is a false game of empty words, without any real intention.
i have to say, madam president, in some regions of europe, one in two people under 25 is neither in employment nor in training. but there are other regions where young people are lacking. such regions can offer at least some young people from elsewhere a perspective. but this does not require sunday speeches, but information, recruitment, language courses, inclusion training, training for trainers and similar, very practical things that must be implemented in the member states and that can be a very concrete example of european solidarity. because when an entire generation is lost, it's not just a problem and bad for the economy. it's a huge problem for our entire democracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. cohesion policy is a very broad field indeed. this is also reflected in the debate. this ranges from urban development and the contribution of cities to the economy, to territorial development, territorial cooperation, energy policy and the contribution of energy policy to cohesion policy, to the solidarity fund. i could easily mention other areas of concern. that's actually a very positive picture. but we have to be careful in the field. it is very important that we set clear objectives for cohesion policy and then that we really focus the available funds on those objectives. there must be no promotion on the principle of the watering can, as we have certainly seen in the past at one point or another. we will follow this reorientation of cohesion policy with the wording of the future cohesion policy from 2014. but we must also look at another area in the context of the new cohesion policy, namely our own public relations. we should do good and talk about it, and then the acceptance of european policies will also be much greater. we can achieve this if we take the partnership principle seriously and involve the regional partners really well in the preparation of the operational programmes. the projects will then be better run, they will be better accepted and at the same time better known. another important point is that we need to coordinate european policies better with each other, within cohesion policy, but also with other policies. last but not least, a policy, however well designed, is of no use at all if we do not have the funds to do so in sufficient quantity. we must have a positive outcome in the mff negotiations if we are to be able to make good policies for the citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we need is a really significant strengthening of the urban dimension, because cities are hotbeds for demographic change and, above all, for social inequality. it must not be a mere declaration of intent, but must be seen as a major challenge of our time and be financed accordingly. i am very concerned about the hiccups we are currently experiencing with the multiannual financial framework, where no one knows what will come out of it. cities are of particular importance to the rural environment and are themselves places of demographic development. we have rural refugees on the one hand, and we have the exclusion of entire urban populations, such as the roma, who are systematically excluded from urban centres. the stigma of poverty and underdevelopment is tearing apart urban areas. social housing, mobility for all and social development are really the order of the day. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that there must be no cuts in cohesion policy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that, in the light of the ongoing trilogue negotiations on the structural funds regulations, four reports show the wide range of cohesion and structural policy, making it one of the most important policy areas in the european union. i am particularly grateful for the report by mr cozzolino, which clearly shows us the importance of urban development in the european context. i fully agree with commissioner hahn when he says that all the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy can only be achieved if they are implemented in the cities and urban areas, where over 70% of the eu population live, where growth is generated and where social inclusion must take place. the eu council representatives have already expressed their views on the importance of sustainable urban development in various statements: in the bristol accord, the leipzig charter, and most recently in the toledo declaration. it is time they acted on this and the urban dimension remained part of the future structural funds regulation, cities and urban areas were given greater access to the structural funds and were duly taken into account and included in the partnership agreements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. urban policy is a policy for the future. cities are indeed the engines of social, equitable and, above all, sustainable growth. over 80% of european gdp is generated in cities. at the same time, however, we must also recognise that urbanisation has its downsides: cities suffer from congestion, pollution, outdated infrastructure and demographic change. europe therefore needs an ambitious urban policy and european structural policy can make a decisive contribution to this. i think that mr cozzolino's report sheds light on an important aspect, namely how urban renewal can best promote economic growth and thus act as a kind of stimulus programme. the erdf plays a crucial role in this. in the negotiations on the erdf regulation we are currently working on improvements to achieve sustainable, ecological and social urban renewal. because that's what people need as a basic ingredient and as a basic meaning in cities.
the debate on the four reports is closed. the vote on the reports by mr cozzolino, mr vaughan and mrs estaràs ferragut will take place on tuesday 15 january at 12 noon. the vote on the report by mrs kolarska-bobińska will take place on wednesday 16 january at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr luigi berlinguer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on an administrative procedural law of the european union (2012/2024(ini) (a7-0369/2012).
i would like to begin by welcoming the president of the republic of cyprus, mr christofias, who will shortly be making a statement on the cypriot presidency. welcome to the country, mr president. before i give you the floor, a point of order or a point on the agenda. in accordance with rule 140 (2) of the rules of procedure, i propose that you amend today's agenda. you will recall the lively debate yesterday at the beginning of our debate. a statement by the high representative of the union, mrs ashton, with a debate on the situation in mali, will be added to the agenda at 4.30 p.m. this afternoon, by agreement between myself and the political groups, for which i express my thanks. there is no motion for a resolution on this debate. the question for an oral answer from the committee on transport and tourism on the so-called one-piece rule of certain airlines will be the first item on the agenda for thursday. (the president declared that there were no objections to these proposals.)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the cyprus presidency (2012/2728 ((rsp)). i also welcome the president of the commission, mr barroso. i give the floor to mr dimitris christofias, president of the republic.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, thank you for your speech. i would also like to thank you on behalf of my group for the great openness with which you have spoken to us during our visits about the wonderful and long history of your home island. i must emphasize again that each time i have visited i have been shocked by the current situation on the island, by the division, and that, of course, in the light of what we said at the beginning of the presidency, i can only speak of this one point as a great disappointment. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cypriot authorities are able to take account of the situation in cyprus. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the sights are too close. in the past, you have done a great deal to help overcome old conflicts. unfortunately, it has failed so far, and you are as stuck in your home as ever. in germany and other european countries, we are now having a very strong debate about measures to help cyprus in the financial crisis. i think it is a big mistake for cyprus to pretend that there are no problems with tax havens, tax havens. it would be wrong to pretend that there is no real assistance to tax evaders and tax avoiders in cyprus. even money laundering in your home country, you should talk openly. if the aid negotiations are to start now, then all this must be discussed. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax authorities are not forced to take action. you have again called for europe to do more for growth. but europe must also do something together to ensure that the state's revenues are fairly distributed. that is why we must do something about tax injustice. the action plan against tax evasion is on the table, the revision of the money laundering directive is pending, the financial transaction tax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not applied to the whole of cyprus. and you must help ensure that the first steps we have taken towards banking union are not the last, because the restructuring fund and the deposit guarantee are the other two pillars on which this banking union must be built. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. we have repeatedly stressed the island's renewable energy potential in the cyprus talks. unfortunately, we have found that the discovery of resources off the coast of cyprus has led to the hope of extending the fossil age being put on hold, and to a lesser extent to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises in the context of exploiting renewable potential. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i can only expressly reiterate what i said in my speech: cyprus is a country that allows tax evasion, as do other countries in the european union. cyprus has a large number of letterbox companies, but so do other member states of the european union. we are allowing far too much tax evasion and money laundering in europe. we have to do this together. i think it is completely wrong that a discussion is being sparked in germany just over cyprus. i think it is right to start a debate on how we can work together in europe to promote tax justice and combat money laundering. i would like to ask mr christofias to ask mrs merkel to do so. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. again, i do not want to list all the member states. but the fact that unfair tax policies are being implemented, that there is unfair tax competition in the european union, is something that colleagues here should be able to accept. otherwise we would not need the action plan against tax evasion, or the revision of the money laundering directive or the parent-subsidiary rules. cyprus is one of the countries that exacerbate these problems. we shall discuss this with ireland later in this house. we shall also be discussing this problem in this parliament today if mr faymann comes. second, i am a child of germany. i grew up near the inner german border, in the west. i was shocked to see how much of the good social development in cyprus is still being prevented by the division of the island. i was really shocked because i saw this border for the first time in my life during my presidency of the council.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unlike many other presidencies, you have also been on the cutting edge from the start. you said it clearly earlier: the austerity policy to combat the crisis is wrong. it is an aggravating crisis, it is anti-european. without strengthening social europe, the union has no future. but it is also clear that such a task cannot be undertaken by a presidency alone. we have all seen firsthand that the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the 2012/2013 budgets and the structural and cohesion funds were dominated by national egos, but also by the interests of the big economic and financial lobbyists. under these conditions, agreements which promote the solidarity of the union are becoming increasingly difficult. despite all the difficult circumstances in which the presidency has been held, you have tried time and again to speak clearly and to make it clear that we can only move the european union forward together. for that, you deserve our respect! also, in view of the extremely difficult situation in cyprus, which has been mentioned here on several occasions, the high level of indebtedness, in particular the impact of the greek debt ratio on your banks, it is clear that you have to work in difficult conditions. i can only hope that the people of your country as a whole will have the help, solidarity and respect that are simply necessary to enable a way out of this situation. in this context, i think it is fatal if the question of whether your banks are systemically relevant is at the centre of this decision. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this presidency has also shown more than any other that we still have a systemic problem, that it is not clear how the responsibilities and the responsibilities are distributed between the permanent presidency and the rotating presidency. it cannot be that mr van rompuy, for example, is putting forward proposals for the summit and then, in the end, the representatives of the cypriot presidency, who have put forward another proposal, have to defend those proposals in parliament. this can't be happening! in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the european parliament and for your close cooperation with us as a group.
madam commissioners, thank you for being here in the parliament. i think we are in a situation where we should raise public awareness in europe on the question of the research programme and specifically of its importance for jobs and growth. my question is, since we are now in the midst of the discussions in the trialogue on that issue, what is your overall impression on the negotiations with the council on its willingness to fulfil its own proposals when it says it would like to spend 3% of gnp on research and development issues and would therefore boost the opportunities for jobs and growth in europe by means of research and really driving europe towards leadership in research and development, on a worldwide basis as well?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted in favour of this report because it is the right approach. the european union is also concerned with reducing economic disparities and living standards. it is of course always extremely important to address the region on the one hand and to take account of regional specificities. i also support the principle that the regions should be able to decide how to use the money and how best to use it. but on the other hand, of course, you have to constantly check that claim. i think that should be made clear here. there are regions in the european union which have been receiving support and assistance for over 30 years and where nothing is actually happening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. if this second part of my speech is taken into account, i am not only in agreement with this report 99%, but i am in agreement with it 100%.
in writing. - i very much welcome the report, as it once again highlights the importance of regional policy in involving stakeholders at regional and local level in planning. the money that the eu and our regions put into projects is only well invested if it does not bypass the needs of the citizens. the more local social, economic and social stakeholders, such as churches and local authorities, are involved in the planning of operational programmes, the more likely it is that the money will be put to good use. the needs of regions, and even within regions, are so different that the objectives cannot be the same for all. there must be a reasonable margin of manoeuvre for the actors involved. the work done by parliament in the framework of the new regulations for the 2014-2020 funding period has been quite satisfactory. i hope that this can also be brought to a good conclusion in the negotiations with the council and the european commission. i also share the view of my colleague on the potential of financial instruments and the synergy effects of linking r & d support programmes with cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr cercas on information and consultation of employees, anticipation and management of restructuring, because i reject the approach underlying this own-initiative report. restructuring in enterprises is a tool which benefits both employers and workers, particularly in times of crisis. in my own country, in particular, legislation has proved its worth on the basis of a functioning, non-prejudiced social partnership . employees and public authorities are involved in a transparent way, and the existing rules are tried and tested and accepted in smes. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council.
the next item is the debate on the statement by mr werner faymann, federal chancellor of the republic of austria, on the future of the european union. mr chancellor, i welcome you to our house. it's a pleasure to have you with us today. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i have also seen the government of the kingdom of spain represented on the benches of the european council by our long-standing colleague, mr iñigo mendez de vigo. i would like to welcome you, mr. minister. (applause from the centre) i have to go. i thank you for accepting my invitation to come to the european parliament and to discuss with the members of this house today your vision for the future of europe. we are certainly at a decisive stage in european politics in this year, 2013. there is no doubt that the cohesion of peoples and states in our community of states and nations is crucial for economic, ecological and monetary sustainability in ways that i and i believe all of you could not have imagined just a few years ago. the debate of our parliament with the individual members of the european council in its capacity as a member of a body of the european union and at the same time as the head of government of a sovereign country is therefore of central importance. i am grateful to you - i repeat - for coming here to seek dialogue with us. i would like to see more of your colleagues in the european council finding this way of discussing in open dialogue with the freely elected representatives of the peoples, rather than perhaps as the head of government of a sovereign country making statements on the soil of another country about the future of the european union, statements which i believe the majority of the members of parliament do not share.
the chancellor of the federal republic of germany. mr president, mr president of the commission! i'm glad you found the time. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a particular honour for me to be here today to discuss the present and future of the european union and thus of the european community. at a time, namely at the present time, when more than five and a half million young people in europe are unemployed, at a time when more than eight and a half million under 24 in europe are unable to find work, it would be cynical to say that the crisis is over. i am therefore convinced that we have achieved a great deal in contrast to the 1930s: namely, to react and act on this financial and economic crisis with unity and joint programmes - investment programmes. also, the prediction of some that we will be less in the eurozone at the end of 2012, all these apocalyptic predictions have not come true thanks to the joint efforts of europe. we have therefore achieved a great deal together, and i am convinced that without this common european union we would not have been able to cope with the damage caused by the financial and economic crisis to such a large extent. but we cannot be satisfied as long as economic growth is so low and unemployment so high. we must not forget that the european union is a great power. when we do bad things to europe, we always end up doing bad things to ourselves. and i say this as someone from a country that is one of the net contributors. net contributor just means that compared to the deposits and what you get from direct subsidies, there is a net payment left over. but it does not say anything about how we in austria, for example, also benefit from exporting to other countries and that many austrian companies are very successful in other countries of the european union. this too is an advantage for a country. and this too must be taken into account when we consider the economic advantages and disadvantages of the european union or of a central element, namely the common currency in the eurozone. we must understand this solidarity, which should be the hallmark of europe, as a model which, unlike other continents, places a special emphasis on democracy, freedom and social security and lives by it. this solidarity must not be confined to national borders but extended to the whole of europe. we can only be together for good or together for bad. i say this because i am often asked: what is the point of these measures - the safeguards, the esm, many others such as the fiscal pact, the investments we have decided on together, the budget, the financial perspective, which i hope will make a lasting contribution to economic growth in the coming years? there are two ways of answering that. i am firmly convinced that social cohesion, social balance in europe, requires the acceptance of the population and that history has shown that neighbours who once used violence to settle conflicts that often involved life and death have now found a community in which they settle conflicts and differences in peaceful conflict and peaceful coexistence. when the coal reserves were pooled and the idea was born that steelworks together could achieve more than one against the other, a foundation was laid for this, which many people, including young people, can easily explain by the fact that we live in a generation of peace. and that cannot be guaranteed in the long term without social cohesion, in my view. we cannot advocate a europe in which young people lose hope because they are not needed, because after school or even at 16 years of age, even with an education, they do not even have the chance to assert themselves in society and to be able to live from their own work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social cohesion is not undermined by the lack of a single market. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economies in a way that is compatible with the common market. now we are far from that in many respects. let's imagine if we hadn't used all these tools. yeah, who did we hurt? it would not have been those who made the most money in speculation who were far removed from the real economy. it is not they who pay the bill when a country goes bankrupt, but the wrong people! it's the people who are in the hospitals who are dependent on medication that there's no money for. the wrong people are paying, because the working population, who have not really speculated, would get the bill. so it is a shared responsibility to ensure that we draw the right lessons from this crisis. i believe that these are the right conclusions, and they include austerity, increased competitiveness, but also increased investment and solidarity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. and there's a lot of work to be done! the fight against fraud vat fraud , the fight against all those who try not to pay taxes in their own country i.e. the fight against tax fraud , the introduction, improvement and strengthening of tax authorities i.e. not only deciding on taxes on paper, but also collecting them , creating the rule of law and thus also reliability for investors, seem to me to be the right answers. the right answers because to recommend a cutting policy which simply runs over the lawn with a mower also takes away a country's opportunities: in purchasing power, in investment, in research, in education, in development, in other words in all those factors which must make a country more competitive. we know that in these days and weeks we are also faced with many critical questions from the public about the measures we are taking. but i am convinced that in a boat, not only can you enjoy the benefits of good weather, but that whenever a storm shakes the boat a little, everyone has to take a stand, row with you, and stick together to get back to safe waters. that is because we must not stop pursuing what i would call this debt management! if the interest rates on bonds have diverged so sharply in recent years that austria and germany - because i see my friend, the president, paying less than 2% on long-term bonds, and perhaps, if this continues, even getting something for it when they borrow government bonds - are already doing so on short-term bonds, while other countries are moving towards 6, 7 and 8% interest rates and so these high charges and costs in these countries do not create the possibility of investment, i am convinced that the protective measures taken so far are only the beginning of a common debt management. debt management is not to be misunderstood. it doesn't mean that you're just like a bottomless barrel, responsible for what someone else does. debt management means that we do not leave the way bonds develop in europe to the speculative financial markets. i therefore believe that the idea of the german debt-repayment fund and thus a further development towards a joint management of bonds is an absolutely right way to go if we want to not only set the heading of investment, but also open up the possibilities for countries to have the power to do so. (applause from the centre) in this context, let me also express my gratitude to the european parliament, to you, for your clear and unambiguous position on the issues of supervision, regulation of financial markets and financial transaction taxation, which is a particular concern of austria and for which we in our parliament, together with all the parties, have decided to be strongly involved at european level. on the one hand, the financial transaction tax is a symbol of the contribution of financial markets to freeing up funds, remedying the damage of the financial crisis and creating room for future economic growth. but it also has a steering role in that it strengthens the european industrial base, the european services, the european real economy, and not those products which fit better into a casino than into the european economy. so all the mechanisms, the prohibitions on speculation, the regulations, the banking supervision, the insolvency laws that go into these areas, where the real economy is strengthened, and where there is also something like equity in the distribution of risks - so that some people don't take the risk and others don't pay the bill - are necessary to show the population that we may not have had enough tools in our hands as politicians to prevent this financial market crisis, but we have learned from it that we need more tools to ensure that this crisis does not happen again in the future, and that we can draw clear consequences here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. i also think that this is a matter of defending what is often taken for granted. but since i know that there are also dissenters in our controversial discussion, i would like to emphasize this again and again: there is such a thing as a provision of life. i am referring to the products of life in the energy sector, in other areas of infrastructure, including drinking water, where it is possible, and in my view even desirable, that we keep them in the hands of the state and not simply sacrifice them to a false idea of liberalisation. it is a little fast to sell, but it is very difficult for the community to recover it. (applause from the centre) and here again, given the demand of many people that the political leaders should regain primacy in politics, and given the fact that many political leaders are often portrayed as guilty by the population because they lack access to really express their opinion, for example, on speculation or other phenomena, we are obliged to build the instruments for this. i think that includes youth employment. a guarantee of education for young people. i would like to mention austria, which is one of the countries with the lowest unemployment and also the lowest youth unemployment in the european union. the training of skilled workers strengthens a business location. and the economic and industrial location of europe is a prerequisite for europe's future. the guarantee of training means that 16-year-olds are taken from the streets and given the chance to be transferred to workshops in a system where they are trained in dual training, partly directly in the workplace and partly in school, so that they are later also available with high quality, but also equipped for their chances in the labour market. the dual system of education, of which i am very convinced, and the guarantee of education, give us many opportunities to prevent what we urgently need to prevent: the despair of young people. (applause from the centre) and let me just give you a little thought experiment. if we stopped talking about the discount on the financial framework and said, let's invest together in education and in extra-company training workshops, we would take a million 16 and 17-year-olds off the streets. that must be worth something in a european society! (applause from the centre) i know that austria also takes the view that if everyone keeps the discounts, then austria must keep the discounts too. and if rural areas and regional development are so crucial, then outside the urban centres too, we must ensure that what exists of cultural and political identity in a country is also maintained, and that those difficult parts of agriculture which have switched to organic farming or which are working in particularly difficult situations, such as in the mining sector, must have some validity and a place in europe. so we'll have a lot to discuss in the area of the financial perspective, but it has to be with the aim of something coming together in the end. what we need is a result. the result is to prove what we are asking of investors, of industry and of others: confidence in the future of the european community and in its reliability. let me add one more point on the subject of reliability. reliability and sustainability in energy policy are renewable energies for me as austrian prime minister. i know that a change in energy policy is easier for some, more difficult for others and very difficult. but nuclear energy, nuclear energy is not a sustainable policy. (applause from the centre) in the case of nuclear energy, as has been shown since fukushima at the latest, it is not possible to control how final storage, or even intermediate storage, can be safely operated in the future. i therefore welcome the fact that there are stress tests - the commission has indeed had stress tests carried out - which are a step towards verifying the safety of nuclear power stations. and i am convinced that the safest thing in europe is not a nuclear power plant, but renewable energy. (applause from the centre) you laughed at that, congressman. but those who still suffer from fukushima have nothing to laugh at. i also firmly believe that we are also responsible for the generation that will have to ask itself in several generations how to deal with what we produce today, including nuclear waste. so this is also a sustainable policy. i am - and i conclude by saying this - very proud of the older generation, which after the second world war, after reconstruction, found the courage to prepare this peace project and then to make it a european union. it has not always been calculated whether it pays off every month and whether it was a profit for the country every month, but the common yield of the project has rightly been in the foreground. when - and i say this also to southern europe - our children and grandchildren, also from austria, greece and spain, meet in a few years' time and judge the policies we are pursuing today, i would like them to say, as head of the austrian government, that solidarity and charity were stronger than speculation and greed! (parliament adopted the resolution)
president of the commission. − mr president, mr chancellor, honourable members, let me very briefly use this opportunity to congratulate the european parliament and chancellor faymann for holding this debate. cooperation and engagement between the european and national levels is indispensable if we want to overcome this crisis. chancellor faymann, with your visit to the european parliament you recognise that democracy in the european union needs to take place at national as well at european level. i want to thank you, the austrian chancellor for your personal commitment to the european union. your strong statement today is another proof of that commitment. i thank you and i want to extend this gratitude to your government and your country. in fact, austria has been leading in promoting very important policies at european level. let me highlight in particular the open dialogue between the social partners, which in austria is an important condition for growth and solidarity. austria, as we know, is the country which has the lowest youth unemployment in all europe, and let me also thank you for your strong support for the youth guarantee. let me mention in the same context the strong austrian support for a financial transaction tax at european level. let me also mention the constructive position austria as a net contributor is taking in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. and let me mention, in another area, the austrian commitment to clean and renewable energies as a key contribution to fight climate change and strengthen our economies. last but not least, i would like to mention the strong support of austria for a european agenda for nuclear safety. these are just a few examples of chancellor faymann’s and austria’s contributions to europe. in my capacity as president of the european commission, i am looking forward to continuing my close cooperation with you and your government, and i want to thank austria for its commitment to our union. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, mr chancellor! i must admit that in the last few days, when i was preparing for this debate, i was very pleased with the progress you have made in your office on european affairs. it was very creaky at first. we have looked at austria with wonder and we are pleased that we are now witnessing such a strong showing in favour of a common european solution to the worst crisis we have seen for many years. i have also read the interview with mr verhofstadt in preparation for this debate and i think we should all be in favour of your statement that the debt problem which we have allowed to grow in the european union must be solved together and that the proposal for the old debt compensation fund, on terms which are not at all rosy for those who are in trouble, is still one which has been justified by the economists and which represents a viable way forward. i also found in your interview that you believe that we must be patient with europe and that sometimes things take longer than we all wish. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you said in the interview before you came to us that europe must not allow social injustice to worsen. but these social injustices are already getting worse. if you want europe as a whole to have more resources to tackle these problems - and you have stressed this in various places outside this debate and also in this debate - then you must be very strong in your support for the european parliament's position on the budget and the medium-term financial framework. my group feels it is very threatening that we are openly moving towards the idea that without agricultural reform, without greening of the cap, the agricultural budget should remain intact. my group also finds it dangerous that the cohesion funds should not be changed and at the same time - without changes to the cap, without changes to the structural funds - a budgetary cut is imposed. that would mean that all the ambitious, innovative projects, whether it's the youth guarantee or other interventions for social justice, would be impossible at all. we would have a pre-modern, yesterday's european budget. all that you have said today is a cry for your intervention in this budgetary dispute and in the agricultural dispute. i think austria is an example in terms of agricultural policy. i can only say this again from today, thanks to mr fischler, but the greening that mr cioloş has proposed can be implemented in austria without austrian farmers or farms throughout europe having to fear anything. the green group's final statement on nuclear energy is as follows: all right, all right, all right. the stress tests have not yet been finally decided in their conclusions, despite several attempts by mr öttinger in the council. the safety standards directive, the nuclear liability directive, is so far nothing but an empty promise. obviously mr öttinger is not getting anywhere with this. you're gonna have to back him up a little bit.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i'm not trying to provoke you. i would like to express my respect to you, mr chancellor, for coming here. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. chancellor merkel did this in november, but it still seemed to us to be a one-day affair. we have the impression that not many heads of government in the council have understood that the european parliament is not a bunch of nonsense, but that the most important decisions to be taken on the future of the european union can only be taken together with parliament, in respect for parliament, and that the arguments which parliament has when it opposes council positions, for example, and says that we do not share your view that the multiannual financial framework should be reduced, that the cohesion and structural funds should be reduced, that these arguments do not seem to matter at all to the governments, have not had any lasting effect. this is something that needs to change, and we can only do this together. i take your presence here and your debate as an offer and at the same time an invitation to other members of the council to make an effort here and to signal that we are refraining from trying to promote the current development of the european union by replacing the community method with the union method, by declaring that we are refraining from declaring that democracy is to be reduced to serving the economy, but that we are taking our responsibility in common to ensure that people, no matter where they live in the european union, people and not just eu citizens, but all people, including refugees, migrants, migrants, members of ethnic minorities all human rights granted here in the european union. please help us to ensure that human rights and the promotion of human rights in the european union are not reduced to the exercise of the rights of the internal market, but that they are more than that! the european year of citizens is also about informing people about their rights in the internal market. that's a completely wrong approach! it is about restoring democracy, involving citizens and making their voices heard. and this also means - and this is an inseparable link for me - that democracy, the democratisation of the european union and solidarity, the social european union, are inextricably linked. i urge you and i urge others to put an end to austerity. the commission itself was forced to declare a few days ago that austerity is not the way to ensure the future of the european union, to bring it out of the crisis. tell them: we can't go on with this privatization of the public domain. the sale of the public sector - you mentioned this earlier - is in stark contrast to the idea that there can be a future for the european union, that there can be more common ground. the privatization, the liberalization of public property, public goods, public services, the privatization of social security systems, the denial of minimum social protection, of environmental protection standards is one of our great obstacles. if we can do that again, if we can even envisage a vision of our common european union, then i am convinced that many people will follow us and say: yes, that is the kind of union we want. we do not want to be reduced to this customs union, we want more. the first problem to be solved would be the allocation of the multiannual financial framework for the structural and cohesion funds. i think it is particularly absurd that, for example, in the bundestag, parliamentary groups are considering whether they should not take action against the eu aid programme for the most deprived in the european union. it's not good for anyone's face, it's a slap in the face. i am asking for your support in concrete terms. help to eliminate the real causes of the crisis!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to say that it is a long way from the letter to the editor in the kronen newspaper to today's speech, but a good way that has been taken. i also thank you, mr chancellor, for considering the concept of fiscal structure, change, competitiveness and growth as a single entity. that is the way we must go about our business in this world, and i hope that you will be among those who, when the mff negotiations are held next month, will insist that the innovation and growth parts of the budget are not exactly being removed, because that is a contradiction. the following also seems important to me, and i echo the words of mr saryusz-wolski: the single market means that everyone has the same obligations in the single market, which is why we cannot make special deals for the british on this issue, given the speech we expect from david cameron on friday. that also means that we say that the euro is the currency of the 27, not the 25, which have no opt-out, and that we therefore regard this as a community matter, that we must not allow either in banking supervision or in the rules of economic and monetary union that the community method and the europe of the 27 are destroyed if we want to have an impact in the future. i am sure that after this speech you will be in favour of monet's concept of ensuring european unity, and not that of metternich.
i thank you very much, chancellor faymann, for your words. i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the situation in mali is dangerous and we do not want to see the expansion and consolidation of islamist rule. but there is a story behind it. mali is a country with significant natural resources and is one of the poorest countries in the world. you have to wonder why so little of the population is getting there. the link between poverty and civil war is a worldwide phenomenon. more and more northern groups turned to criminal activities to ensure their existence. the link between some of them and al qaeda was secondary to religious or political motives. the government in mali has long been controversial among large sections of the population. since the coup in 2012, the state has no clear government. the coup and the uprisings in the north are directly linked to the situation in libya, especially the released gaddafi mercenaries. we cannot speak of the malian government, nor can we speak of the islamist forces in the north. the situation is so confusing that the eu has rightly refrained from intervening. the french involvement in the civil war is now to be seen as a normative force of fact. the current reason for this is at least partly nebulous. but what we do know is how little in the past, public intervention has helped in countries that have been affected. the european union is not a party to the conflict. what is mali really about? who's interest is being fought here? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. a pipeline through the sahel is planned, securing resources of strategic interest. three weeks of war cost france alone 32.5 million euros more than germany pays on average in development aid to the poor country each year. and military training aid is to be paid for by the european development fund under the african peace facility. mali needs dialogue, social justice and not military escalation, and certainly not pyromaniacs as firefighters!
i have to say, madam president, the military situation in mali was about to get out of control. without french intervention, the extremists and jihadists would have moved further south, no doubt with the aim of taking over the whole country. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. i would like to make one point, however: we are not dealing here with a specific threat to france. france is no more affected than any other european country. i say that we have not yet fully lived up to our responsibilities as the eu. you, lady ashton, have mentioned the eu's sahel strategy and also mentioned the comprehensive approach. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the training mission was decided on months ago, but since nothing tangible has happened so far, the extremists have felt encouraged to continue to push forward. we have created structures with the csdp, for example we have a modern combat force that is ready and could help secure on the ground what france has already achieved in a first step. i ask, what is the state of planning? will you propose to the foreign ministers that a military mission of the gsp be sent to support the french, malian and african troops? i would like to see a common response to common threats and europeans of different nationalities coming together to defend common european interests, not just in the foreign legion.
madam president, this is lady ashton. europe must act swiftly and decisively. europe must act swiftly and unitedly. france needs our solidarity, but not just verbal solidarity, and it also needs the solidarity - i say this as a german - of germany. but europe has failed to take a joint and determined approach to prevention. for example, we have indicated at an early stage in the acp-eu meetings in the development committee and elsewhere that the african union, ecowas and the neighbouring countries of mali need to be supported. the west african countries want to stabilize mali, they want to restore the democratic structures that mali had. but unfortunately, as so often, there is no consideration of development policy and the possibilities of development policy. we must now, at great expense, restore by military action what we should have done better in development policy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i am glad that we have a country like france, which is capable of taking action, which is taking initiatives on such issues, certainly in the region for historical reasons and because you already have troops there and in the neighbourhood. and you have choices. the second point is that we must show solidarity as the european union, because, as mr gahler rightly said, it is not french interests that are being represented here, but european interests. if all of mali falls into the hands of terrorists and becomes a safe haven for terrorists again, this will be a threat to us all, not just the african region. that's why our interests are being taken care of here. which brings me to the third point, which is that we should be in solidarity. everyone has to work on the terms. not everyone has to do everything, not everyone has to be involved in combat missions, but everyone has to be involved in some way. that is why the question of speed arises. we had decided on this training concept after long discussions at european level. it is always taking forever at european level, certainly also because of the unanimity principle and the weight of our structures, which unfortunately are not better than they are. and we're always reactive to these questions, which is particularly troubling to me if the child has already fallen into the well. if you had early insights and acted and agreed sooner, that would be better. commissioner, i am convinced that we will also take this as an example of what we need to improve in structures for future cases, in order to be more able to act in the future in this way, so that we can act more strongly and more quickly with less effort, preventively, deterrently, so that something like this cannot happen again, that this is the way people take countries over as their base, which is directed against the world community.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the credit rating agencies have played a major role in the emergence of the global financial crisis and in the deepening of the european debt crisis. many investors - both institutional and private - have lost a lot of money. they trusted that rating agencies were professional and that their judgment was reliable. the reality was different. the rating agencies have been focused on expanding their business base as quickly as possible and increasing their profits, even though they already have above-average profit margins. they did not see their part in the crime at first, and then only in small parts. they also failed to develop a commitment that would have the potential to change their behavior in the future. so it was clear that politics had to be brought into the picture. the citizens and the voters have been expecting us to act here. we acted. the package we are putting to the vote tomorrow is certainly a good and right step in the right direction. it will change many things, but it will not eliminate all weaknesses. the commission has already reported on many of the positive aspects of the matter to the irish minister and the rapporteur. in particular, we can say that the work of the rating agencies will become more transparent, it will be objectively traceable, the methods will be verifiable for the first time, they will be accountable and the dependence will decrease rapidly over time. the main weakness of our current system is that we have too little competition; the speakers have mentioned it. we still have an oligopoly structure which will remain for a number of years. we have unfortunately not succeeded in convincingly laying the foundations for the establishment of a european rating agency in the form of a foundation. i am against a public body because it would not be objective, i am for a rating agency in the form of a foundation. unfortunately, it has not been possible to mobilize private capital. i hope that will change in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this further step towards increased supervision and regulation of credit rating agencies is welcome. this is the third time we have dealt with this since the crisis. it's always one step ahead. we've made some improvements here, too. the calendar for ratings is useful to ensure that in the future, ratings are no longer applied politically on a timely basis, but when something has actually changed economically in the country. it should also be mentioned that we have for the first time proposed that the letter-based ratings should be supplemented by a system which is numerical and therefore much more rational in terms of the probability of failure than a system which is fixed to letters, where it seems as if the difference between a+ and triple a is huge, which is not the case at all. it is the first time that a finance watch proposal has found its way into european legislation. it is also necessary to say that some of the proposals do not go as far as we would like, for example the principle of liability. many people are hopeful about this, but it's hard to prove gross negligence. we should not pretend that this will bring about very great changes. there are other positive elements in the report. i'm sorry to say that the experience of sitting in this trilogy was a bittersweet one. the rapporteur has indicated that: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would also like to say that the commission has not failed. but the council had only one answer, and the answer was no. whether it was a matter of systematically incorporating environmental risks into the ratings, of regulating conflicts of interest more strictly, or whether it was a matter of coordinating a common taxation in europe to finally tax the 40% return on the turnover of the rating oligopoly and use that money, for example, to set up a european credit rating foundation: all of this was rejected. we can only hope that this oligopoly of ratings, which will not be broken by this regulation, will be changed by the tests you have promised, commissioner. i ask you to look carefully at the alternatives to this rating system so that we can really have a different market structure at some point, one that is worthy of a social market economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for your cooperation over the past few months. the years of crisis have clearly shown one thing: rating agencies have warned of the crisis far too late, have repeatedly exacerbated it by questionable statements and have too often been in the guise of politicians. it is high time we took action. i welcome the fact that the compromise now reached provides for example for concrete timetables for country ratings and puts an end to the blind trust of financial institutions in the judgments of the agencies. unfortunately, however, there are also areas where the council's reform of the member states is lagging behind. the shareholder of a credit rating agency may continue to hold government bonds issued by states which are rated by the credit rating agency. the positive or negative development of these securities therefore depends very much on the rating that his agency produces. that is an unacceptable conflict of interest for me. we have parallel conflicts of interest in the rating of companies. a rating agency may continue to rate companies even though its shareholders hold up to 9.9% of the company. and companies can be rated by rating agencies as long as they own less than 10% of the agency. this is way too much. this is a cry for preprogrammed conflicts of interest. the 2016 revision of the rules requires us to do everything we can to ensure that these conflicts of interest are finally excluded by law by then at the latest.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rating agencies are really for the benefit of investors and consumer protection. that was its original purpose. but in the crisis they have assumed a disastrous political role which has proved to be totally unacceptable. this is due to the role which the legislator has assigned to them in the past. therefore, eu regulation must restructure credit rating agencies so that they no longer have the political influence they had in the crisis, but instead fulfil their role as investors and consumers. i believe that this directive has taken some important steps in this direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to point out once again that we think the rotation of the rating agencies is a sensible move and that we do not think the interlinking scheme is sufficient, but at least it is a step in the right direction. we think that the ban on automatic sales by devaluation is right and we also welcome the introduction of a european rating index.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are in a full-blown crisis of confidence. that is why i think that the discussion of the stability bond is untimely. it is not suited to regain the lost confidence of the citizens. when we introduced the euro, we made a promise to the citizens. we have said that the currency will remain stable and that there will be no liability for or takeover of debts of other countries. this promise has been broken more than once in the course of the euro rescue. the citizens understand that there was no alternative to saving the euro. you also understand that we've had to put in place a series of rescue programs. yet they feel deceived. and now, when we talk about stability bonds, they ask themselves, why stability bonds? either we have stability and we do not need these bonds because we have the same financing conditions in principle, or we do not have stability and the word 'stability bond' is just a euphemism for redistribution. stability bonds don't connect, they would split. the differences would be smoothed out by stability bonds, but cheap money borrowed on equal terms has already put us in the predicament of horrendous national debt. we shouldn't do this again! the only effective mechanism for reform willingness and thus for debt reduction and fiscal consolidation is interest rate differentials. otherwise, the debt party goes on, but at someone else's expense. the right time to discuss and possibly implement this project is when we have further deepened the integration of financial markets, when the eu can levy its own taxes and when we have a functioning european finance minister. we should put this off until then.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have indeed made substantial changes and improvements to mrs goulard's draft in the econ committee, and mr feio is right. but the question remains: do we have a legal basis for eurobonds? no, we have no legal basis. article 125 prohibits eurobonds, whether they are called stability bonds, debt-repayment funds, blue bonds or red bonds, it doesn't matter. that is why this instrument has been discussed without success for ten years. if we look at all that has been done to save the euro or to save some of the lagging member states and what is still on the table, such as banking union or an expansionary monetary policy of the ecb, then this is the substance of economic and monetary union under the maastricht treaty. and it remains that we can decide here by a majority what we want, that there is a need for a treaty amendment before anything can be introduced in this way. eurobonds with the same interest rates - that's what it says - blur national responsibility, lead to an expansion of debt without conditions, bring europe to the brink of financial ruin. this proposal comes from the socialist motte and bailey. i am surprised that the alde group is so supportive of this, especially the group chairman. eurobonds are like a credit card in a street, in a housing estate, in a high-rise building where 17 families live. anyone can buy with this credit card, but no one knows who will pay in the end. these are eurobonds. i am not saying that, but a member of the executive board of the european central bank said it. mr draghi, who has spoken on this subject twice in the econ committee, has twice rejected eurobonds in a very strong way. i say to the commission: europe is unity in diversity. they want centralism at any cost! the majority can decide here on eurobonds, they will not come even in ten years. i predict that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. yes, i would like to give an answer. europe is a community of law. we must assume that everyone is abiding by the contracts that have been made. that has not happened in the last 12 years. germany and france were also there. i can only say that a european union which does not respect the law, its own law, is digging its own grave. we cannot simply blame germany for this. you won't believe how many colleagues end up voting against it. the socialist colleague said we should be as united as possible. i'm not going to. i call for a clear no to this goulard report!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unlike many others, i have read this report and i find that it negates so many realities as i have rarely experienced in this parliament. the positive first: the rapporteur is right, tax evasion and fraud should be combated. he is also right, there is no doubt that macroeconomic imbalances must be corrected. but he is also suspected, and i quote, 'that disproportionate emphasis has been placed on the reduction of wages, social security and pensions'. but he completely negates the imf's current criticism of austerity, and i quote: 'the forecasters significantly underestimated the rise in unemployment and the decline in domestic demand as a result of fiscal consolidation.' it also denies that the race to cut taxes in the european union has produced a revenue problem and not a spending problem. it further denies that speculation on the financial markets has led to a drastic worsening of the debt situation of the states. the wrong medicine in higher doses is not going to get us out of this situation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the report does not mention any of this and therefore deserves a clear rejection. i say quite clearly: with such reports we are endangering the credibility of the eu's goals of social justice and equal living conditions!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can of course agree with some of what has been said, but i would first like to say that - even if vice-president almunia is not here today - the commission's proposal to concentrate in future on the important and pressing cases with a great deal of factual relevance to the internal market is in principle correct. it is not good for us to get lost in too much detail, we must concentrate on the really important cases, and the commission must do the same. but i believe that the criticisms made by colleagues - most recently by mrs in't veld - can be rebutted. we need - and i am asking the commission to do so - really detailed criteria for the delimitation and prioritisation of cases. only then will this new proposal make sense. secondly, madam president, if the european commission intends to withdraw more and more from ex ante control of aid cases and to concentrate more on the instrument of ex post control, it must at all times be ensured that the national authorities carry out this task in a substitute way and then consistently. i therefore believe that cooperation between the european commission and the national authorities needs to be considerably improved in this area. thirdly, the commission intends to investigate more closely in future, in direct contact with the parties concerned in aid complaint procedures, and to limit itself more closely to the facts communicated by the national aid authorities. however, this involves a considerable additional effort and i would like to ask whether the existing human resources of the competition dg are even capable of meeting such a challenge. finally, madam president, i think it is a good thing that in future certain areas such as health care and the development of broadband networks will already be exempted from the general block exemption regulation. this creates a certain degree of freedom for local and regional authorities, but it must not be abused, because we want to ensure that the budgetary maxims laid down in the european semester are also respected at this level.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the directive is a directive which was drawn up at a time when the long lorries were not on the roads. you have to know that in advance. it is true that this directive has already laid down certain dimensions and weights for lorries. later, other member states joined in, using these longer and heavier trucks. it was therefore said that in exceptional cases member states wishing to use these longer lorries could, in their interest, be allowed to operate there and that this should be communicated to the commission. it is always important to know what the legal situation really was. the question now is whether or not these lorries, which are longer than the directive requires, should be allowed to cross the border. the problem - and this is how i see it - is actually less of an ideological one: do you want them or do you not want them? i come from lower saxony, and we have had good experience with the fact that road infrastructure and road safety also comply with this. the question is, can they cross the border or not? the problem is that the commission has given different answers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and if such a case is brought, then you have to follow up, then you have to issue a warning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the citizens of other member states. in lower saxony, for example, we have allowed the longer trucks, and in the netherlands too. and if they want to cross the border - we are for crossborder traffic, commissioner kallas said - it is illogical that he should stop them. that's the point. the main thing from my point of view is that we want to ensure that entrepreneurs who move goods through europe have legal certainty. can they use longer trucks or not? can they cross the border or not? if they don't cross the border, it might not make sense. that is why it is very important to have clarity from the commission, and if it is a directive, of course with the involvement of parliament. that's what this is about. what is the state of play now so that companies can have legal certainty?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. konrad adenauer, who had suddenly changed his mind, once said: "no power in the world can stop me from becoming smarter overnight". i think commissioner kallas is also claiming that right. he answered my question of 16 march 2010 as to whether he knew of cross-border use of monster trucks with a clear 'no' and said that if the commission were informed of cross-border use of mega trucks, it would initiate infringement proceedings against those member states. but when he was invited by the international road union, he refused to accept his clear position and suddenly allowed the cross-border journeys. he didn't want to change the law, he just wanted to change the interpretation of the law. the guardian of the law suddenly wanted to break the law. this has outraged all factions, whether they are for or against the monster trucks, and they are calling for clarification. siim kallas then replied to the transport committee on 13 june 2012, quoted as saying: 'i consider this approach to be legally sound, although i recognise that this directive is not entirely clear. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission's president, mr barroso, also pointed out this revision when he was asked by parliament's president, mr martin schulz, to stop the commissioner for transport from his illegal escapades. but kallas also ignored the president's suggestion, saying in an interview on europolitics on 11 january 2013 that the revision of the directive would not deal with the cross-border movement of gigolineros. you can also reverse the adenauer quote: "no power in the world can stop me from becoming not only wiser overnight, but also dumber". (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr cramer has just made some very serious allegations against the commissioner. he spoke of stupidity and even of the commissioner breaking the law. that's some pretty strong tobacco, so to speak. we have tried to keep the debate objective so far. but this is really a question of dishonesty. my question is quite specific: can we really speak of breach of the law if it is not within the commission's power to decide to allow these longer lorries to be registered in the member states and they report this to the commission? the commission is not in the position to take any action to prevent this.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i asked the commissioner two years ago if he was aware that these monster trucks were crossing the border. he said, "no". but he added to the answer and said: 'if i knew, i would ask the member states to inform me.' if they confirm that, i will ask them to stop, and if they do not, we will initiate a breach of contract procedure. so i trusted the commissioner. that was a clear statement. and suddenly he says, i don't want to know anything about it, i just interpret it differently, i decide how laws are interpreted, i don't care about the council, i don't care about parliament, i do what i want. this has nothing to do with democracy! that is why we all agreed in the committee, all the groups: we cannot accept this, parliament must not be excluded, the legislator must be involved. we demand that! stop the illegal stuff until we get this cleared up.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have received an answer to my question on this subject this afternoon, after exactly nine weeks. the commission has a maximum of six weeks under rule 117. but that was only in the margin. in that letter you again made it clear to me, commissioner, that you are sticking to your revised legal position. i want to make one thing very clear to you: this procedure is unacceptable, because this new interpretation of the law, so to speak, abolishes the separation of powers through the back door. there is only one way: you can bring it to parliament in the ordinary legislative procedure, and the 1996 directive 53 will remain in force for that period. we therefore urge you, and i urge you, to submit this revision of the directive without delay, but to include crossborder transport in this revision. because that's what you hear from different angles and ends. i don't think that's your intention. rest assured, we will not let you miss anything else! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: i would like to ask mr ertug whether he is aware that monster trucks are crossing the border somewhere and how he intends to deal with this, and then ask the commissioner, if that is the case, to comment on these illegal acts in the european union.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr cramer. this is an important question. in fact, as far as we know, there are now, for example, gigalithers between denmark and germany. i would like to ask you, commissioner, when will the commission, as guardian of the treaties, start infringement proceedings against these two countries? we'd be interested in that. i would also like to thank the honourable member for his question.
in writing. the commission must now finally present the revision of directive 96/53/ec. it should also address the gigalin problem. the commission cannot allow the cross-border movement of gigaliners without revising directive 96/53/ec. gigalinas are not an adequate solution to the problem of increased traffic. we should move goods to the railways or to the water. this would also be an ecologically sound step. i also have concerns about the safety of gigaliners. the overtaking manoeuvres take much longer and thus present a danger. the question of the impact on the condition of bridges and roads is also raised with a length of 25 metres and a weight of up to 60 tonnes. before a clear course is set at european level, it is urgent to analyse the long-term impact of gigalithers on the european transport network.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the irish presidency programme (2012/2727 ((rsp)). i would like to congratulate the irish prime minister, taoiseach kenny. welcome to the european parliament! i also welcome mr barroso, president of the commission.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the very title of the irish presidency's programme 'stability, jobs, growth' shows that combating poverty in the eu and worldwide, combating social exclusion and also environmental destruction are not top priorities of your programme. it is not about responsible creation of the jobs that are so badly needed. i think that the fact that people are given a flowery look does not change that. the presidency's programme is neither based on the problems of greek people's lives nor does it correspond to the eu's overall sustainability strategy. the irish presidency - and we all know this - faces great challenges. i am afraid you are not even asking the questions that are actually necessary and that are connected with the decisions to be taken in the next six months. will the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework to 2020 and on the cohesion and structural funds be reversed? will the irish presidency even attempt to preserve the structural and cohesion funds as an instrument of solidarity, of approximation, of development within the european union? today, just in time to take over the presidency of this parliament, the süddeutsche zeitung has a headline: 'europe suffers, germany wins'. what headlines will be made at the end of your presidency? will you, as an honest broker, try to compensate for the division of the union, the widening of disparities? is that what you want? it's gonna be hard to get a credible story out of him. it is clear that the circumstances are forcing you to do something which has not been done before, namely to link the presidency with the interests of the irish government. i cannot understand why, as soon as you took over the irish presidency, you had nothing else to do but to go to the csu group of countries and attend their meeting. obviously you are dependent on the goodwill and also the praise of the german government. this at least raises the question of whether you can ensure that the interests of the various interest groups within the council are balanced. i would also like to make it very clear that my group does not agree with the proposal for the structure of the multiannual financial framework. the council proposes cuts mainly in the appropriations for social programmes and research, social and territorial cohesion, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. the cuts planned for the structural and cohesion funds - eur 35 billion less than in the previous period - will inevitably lead to a widening of the north-south divide. the europe of solidarity, mr taoiseach, is becoming the europe of austerity in your eyes. and austerity is anti-european. they have come out in favour of the youth guarantee. i'm good with it. what are your plans for funding? i would ask you to drop all thoughts of financing the youth guarantee from the esf. if you take up the proposal put forward by your austrian colleague yesterday, put an end to the rebates, take the funds that are being released and use them to finance what is necessary, namely the creation of concrete jobs for young people. ensure that these jobs are social security, that minimum incomes are paid and that the withdrawal of esf funds to fight poverty does not create a new army of cheap labour that will remain in poverty in the long term. that's what you're going to be doing, that's what we're going to be measuring you by, that would be a demonstrably real, sensitive look at the people that you've met.
mr president, the taoiseach is here; chancellor merkel was here; prime minister monti was here; president sarkozy, when still in office, was here. david cameron is hiding in holland. he seems to be afraid of a real debate about the future of europe with the elected representatives of the peoples of europe. i would like to say to martin callanan of our tory friends to invite him to come here to have this debate here rather than in the hague. your being here earns you our respect and loyalty but not only that. sie haben sechs sparhaushalte nacheinander verabschiedet. sie haben alle auflagen von iwf und europäischer union erfüllt. sie sind am kapitalmarkt zurück, sie haben wirklich viel getan! aber ihr schuldenstand wird in diesem jahr ungefähr 120 % des bruttoinlandsprodukts erreichen, und sie wollen deshalb die irischen schulden europäisieren. ob das richtig ist, sei dahingestellt. es ist allemal legitim, es zu versuchen. es wirft nur eine frage auf: kann irland wirklich ein ehrlicher makler sein, wenn die last der nationalen interessen so schwer auf ihren schultern drückt? vergessen wir nicht, in zwölf monaten wird hier der griechische premierminister sitzen. welche nationalen interessen wird er mitbringen? das ist ein großes problem. sie haben eben in ihrer rede gesagt, sie wollen eine erneuerte und umgebaute europäische union. das klingt bei ihnen erheblich glaubwürdiger als wahrscheinlich bei david cameron am freitag. ich habe einige vorschläge, was man machen könnte. zum einen: lassen sie uns die rotierende präsidentschaft abschaffen. sie werden sehr gute arbeit machen. das ist ihre siebte präsidentschaft, sie haben eine hervorragende europaministerin. aber das system ist ein problem. zweitens: gestern hat hier der österreichische bundeskanzler, der auch hier war, um über europa zu debattieren, gefordert, dass alle rabatte abgeschafft werden sollen bei der finanzierung der europäischen union. lassen sie uns das system erheblich einfacher machen! beim dritten punkt geht es an ihre glaubwürdigkeit: sie haben gesagt, sie wollen eine europäische union, die weniger komplex, weniger institutionell ist. der erste wichtige schritt dahin ist eine kleinere kommission. wir haben jetzt 27 kommissare, es werden immer mehr. das ist der erste wichtige schritt, und hier spielen sie eine ganz besondere rolle!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was pleased, taoiseach, that you placed such great emphasis on the efforts for the youth of europe. i hope that you will succeed in doing so in cooperation with the commission and also with this parliament. but i was disappointed that i had heard virtually nothing from you about an essential task, especially that of your presidency, which is also of great importance to young people, namely industrial policy. the commission's work programme for this year makes it easy to see the scale of the tasks and the scale of the agenda. you don't have any sound. we are talking about the reindustrialisation of europe, and you have no idea what that is all about! the reindustrialisation of europe requires the combination of competitiveness and sustainability to achieve sustainable growth, as mr barroso has called it. this is not just industrial policy in general, it is a resource efficiency roadmap, it is energy efficiency, it is the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies as proposed in the annual economic report. nothing in your priorities, nothing in your speech today. do you have no clear ambitions, or did you just forget to mention them? if you want to achieve stability, growth and jobs - especially for young people - if that is the focus of your work this semester, then you must also actively promote an industrial policy based on competitiveness and sustainability.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was very pleased to see a european politician here, not complaining or making any complaints, but reporting on how to get out of difficult situations by doing something. it takes courage, and it's the only way! and that means, by the way, that it's not about putting more and more and more new programs and projects in place, but about doing the few things that are right and reasonable. i would like to point out that mr verhofstadt, who always says 'debt settlement fund debate' in each of these debates, is blocking projects such as the twopack. we should now ensure that such instruments can also be put into effect. and we have to do our part. i think, mr president-in-office, that we should try to achieve this as quickly as possible. secondly, if it is true that competitiveness - and i think you have made that point very clearly - is the key to organising growth and creating jobs, then we must also be concrete about the question - mr bütikofer has raised it - of what we are actually doing to maintain and promote industry in europe. again, it is not a matter of formulating a new plan. it is not about spending more money, but it is about the question: can i make sure that perhaps by the one or the other measure that we do not take, that we slow down, that we suspend, that we give the industry a chance? what if, mr president-in-office of the council, there were a joint initiative by the council, the commission and parliament to examine in future every proposal we make here - no matter who makes it - to see whether it has a positive or negative impact on jobs and industry, and then decide whether we do it now or later. i'd say that's a good point. thirdly, and more specifically, competitiveness is achieved through technology, innovation and research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to thank mr kenny for taking over the presidency. after having been at many trialogues in the last six months, i am looking forward to the next six months, mainly on financial services, and i hope that we can make rapid progress there. i must also mention one area which has not been discussed very much here today, namely the whole issue of the lack of action at european level on the income side of public finances. we have seen cuts, but we have very little action regarding the taxation of wealth and of capital income, and a fair system of sharing tax income at european level. we know that at the moment the different initiatives, which are also mentioned in the presidency programme, are locked in inaction. therefore we have developed a list of additional points for your presidency in a tax action plan. the greatest presidencies were those which touched on exactly those issues where their own interests were also involved and used the presidency to find fair balances and solutions for problems which concern all of us, despite their own interests also being affected.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, you spoke about the people of ireland. it is about the people who have experience, about the people who are willing to take on new challenges, about the people who are committed, and about the courage of the people in ireland. i liked it. but i must tell you, in this house of the people, we rarely have problems with the population. as a rule, we have our problems with the governments. we would like to invite you to be an ally of this house during your presidency of the council, not a problem! i would like to illustrate this with two examples. you were quite right to talk about the youth guarantee as a central element of our policy. let's be honest: we have had this youth guarantee since 2002. since the barcelona spring summit, heads of state and government have pledged to each other in the lisbon strategy to do everything possible to ensure that every young person in europe will have a job or a training course within a few months. why didn't anything happen? i will tell you why nothing has happened: because we have not made this policy as rigid, because we have not made it as rigid as all the other requirements relating to the budget, because there are no sanctions, and because this house is not competent to review the obligations of the member states and to discuss with you how to proceed. that's an important example. the second example is the banker bonuses. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
taoiseach, thank you very much. looking from here at the applause i must say that you are unifying europe – even the tories applauded! (laughter) meine damen und herren! ich darf mich herzlich bedanken beim premierminister und bei der kommission. die aussprache ist geschlossen. schriftliche erklärungen (artikel 149 go)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the opening of the irish presidency of the council marks a decisive moment for the eu. we must decide together on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 at a time when national budgets are more scarce than ever. the key question is: where can we get the most value from european money? in your programme for the presidency of the council you make clear the important role that the single market plays in europe's economic future. the backbone of our internal market is an efficient transport infrastructure. however, many bottlenecks and lack of connections still hinder the free movement of persons and goods. we must therefore urgently overcome the lack of investment in some member states. infrastructure investment is a growth driver and contributes to social and economic cohesion in the face of the crisis. on the other hand, it is only by improving infrastructure that we can achieve the european targets for reducing co2. the new connecting europe facility therefore plays a central role in the mff negotiations. i appeal to you as president to make an active effort to secure an adequate budget so that we can together bring europe out of the crisis! thank you very much.
the next item is the voting time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am a little shocked at the partisan way in which you are acting as president of this house. if you take a newspaper article from one of the local papers here, that's the one page. but i must say that when i look at brussels, where the smugglers and the poachers are waiting for us every week to rob us, to break into our cars, where there is no security, where there is no police to look after us, i prefer to be here in strasbourg. and that is just one reason why i have voted for a single seat and will continue to do so. but that's a matter of interpretation. for me it is strasbourg. i would ask you, however, in your role as vice-president, not to make partisan arguments here. that's not your function, that's our function here.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agenda, because of the legal need for adequate scheduling. i am aware of the continuing polemic against strasbourg, but for me strasbourg is the seat of parliament and not brussels.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted for this report because it is going in the right direction. three things were very important to me. first of all, i always say, we should make rating agencies what they are. they are aids to decision, they are not the decision itself. i think it is extremely important that rating agencies - like any other craftsman - should be held accountable for their actual economic performance when they make big mistakes. secondly, it has been rightly stated that we also need competition in the rating agencies, so a european rating agency is overdue. but thirdly, we should also remember that even a rating agency cannot simply change bad financing or make a good case for bad financing. so the problem is not being solved by the rating agencies. but the community's debt would not help in this respect either. again, rating agencies are a decision-making tool, not the decision itself. it should still be with the actors.
in writing. - i have approved the report. it is important that more rating agencies are set up to revive the market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will watch over it carefully and strictly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted against this resolution, knowing that as a socialist i find some of its provisions very important. but what we have seen today is the helpless actionism of some europeans who do not know how to help themselves in dealing with a situation where there are many unemployed young people in some of our member states. this is a testament to our poverty. i don't think a so-called job guarantee is going to help in any way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no one will. we must ensure that the internal market works, we must ensure that there are prospects for the future, and not that we offer, for example, to an unemployed carpenter in athens who has been unemployed for four months the prospect of being suddenly sent to a finnish furniture manufacturer so that he can work there for a certain period of time, even though he does not know the language. this cannot be a model for the future and cannot be a real guarantee. i think that's a form of helpless actionism. i can only hope that we will think about how we create jobs in small areas, in the member states, in the regions. my home region of bavaria is exemplary in this respect. we have full employment, including for young people.
in writing. - in the eu, youth unemployment has risen to 23.4%, representing more than 5.7 million young people. the european youth guarantee is at the heart of the package to combat unemployment presented by commissioner lászló andor. i strongly support this idea, which was put forward by my cdu colleague thomas mann back in october 2010. the aim is to provide young people with a job, apprenticeship or further training after four months of unemployment. the german federal government is also strongly behind this project and is prepared to support it with ten million euros.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european culture of peace and reconciliation, which is based on respect for human rights and the rule of law. but that is precisely what is needed to combat youth unemployment. actions instead of words, small steps on the path to success, no office chairs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds today, as did 268 other members, and mr stadler, this is not a trivial objection. i voted against it because, in its present form, it is a hasty move towards euro bonds with joint liability without adequately addressing the risks involved. as things stand, eurobonds are merely a delay in the financial problems and not a permanent solution. we must not create false incentives which will bring the reform efforts and the budgetary consolidation in the crisis countries to a standstill. i therefore believe that eurobonds, if they exist at all, can only be at the very end of a common fiscal union. we should not discuss a timetable for the introduction of common government bonds until there are clear conditions, conditions and monitoring mechanisms at european level which will actually act in the event of a possible excessive budget deficit and the necessary contractual changes have been sufficiently discussed and implemented.
in writing. − i share the position of the german cdu/csu delegation that the introduction of euro bonds will be accompanied by broadly uniform interest rates throughout the euro area, irrespective of national debt levels. the debt of the member states would be europeanized and no one would know which member state has which problems and is responsible. the community's debt is making it more difficult to combat excessive public debt in individual member states. first of all, we must concentrate on our main task, which is to harmonize tax and economic policies. only when europe is once again built on solid walls throughout can the possibility of introducing eurobonds be explored. we have other things to do first.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i myself was in iraq last year at the invitation of a shiite grand ayatollah and was able to get a personal picture of the situation. the country is indeed destroyed, and you can still see that everywhere. the iraqi society is destroyed, there is a terrible mistrust between people. on the other hand, the country has great economic potential, and many look to the future with optimism. i hope with all my heart that the iraqi people will be able to take their fate into their own hands, free from outside influence, and that they will one day be able to live in safety again. in this context, i welcome the fact that tomorrow we will approve the first partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and iraq - a historic agreement - with an hopefully large majority. it contains a political, economic and social component, which is particularly important in an unstable country which, despite its oil, is one of the poorest in the world. it is particularly gratifying that the failure of iraq to protect human rights, especially those of women and the christian minority, is expected to have a direct negative impact on cooperation. attacks, corruption and the plight of ethnic minorities are just some of the problems that continue to exist, with the influx of refugees from syria adding to the pressure. in addition, president talabani's health problems could lead to further political problems if he is not returned to office. it has provided relative stability so far. due to the current legitimate protests in parts of the country against the government, prime minister al-maliki has now been called on by several sides to engage in dialogue with the protesting groups, and i see such dialogue as the only way out of this additional political crisis. only if these can be overcome can the agreement be fully implemented and thus the country's potential be exploited. i hope, therefore, that this agreement will help to solve these various problems together.
president-in-office of the council on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the recent factory fire in ashulia, near dhaka, was a tragedy and over a hundred people, many of them young women, lost their lives in this horrendous incident. i know that we all share a sense of shock at what happened and extend our profound sympathy to all those who lost family members and loved ones. this problem has served to highlight the problem of working conditions in many factories in bangladesh and in particular the routine breach, in many cases, of basic safety rules. we cannot let this incident pass without renewing our efforts to support the bangladeshi authorities in raising standards of occupational safety and health in the industry and, indeed, throughout the country. all those working in the garment or in any other industry in bangladesh clearly deserve better. they have a basic right to decent, safe and secure working conditions. the eu has a particular role to play, being bangladesh’s largest trading partner. this trade has helped stimulate economic growth and create much-needed jobs. the clothing sector is the mainstay of the bangladeshi economy. bangladesh’s exports performance over recent years has been very strong, thanks in part to the duty-free and quota-free market access which the eu offers to imports from bangladesh in the context of the ‘everything but arms’ arrangement, which is an integral part of the eu’s generalised system of tariff preferences. but it has to be of concern to us when goods are produced in factories with unacceptably low safety standards and where employees routinely put themselves at risk simply in carrying out their daily work. that is why the eu has been at the forefront of efforts to secure improvements in safety standards in bangladesh. we have been supporting a number of projects to help employers’ associations and others to ensure compliance with health and safety rules, and we raise these issues regularly in our discussions with both government and business representatives. this is important work, but the tragic fire in ashulia shows that more needs to be done. more generally, the eu has a range of instruments available to help us address this issue, not just in bangladesh but wherever safety standards at work are a cause for concern. i would like to focus this afternoon on how we can make effective use of these trade policy instruments and, in particular, their link to the promotion of international labour organisation guidelines and recommendations. the generalised system of preferences is one of the most important instruments available to us to connect social and human rights issues to trade policy. in addition to the general gsp system, special arrangements for sustainable development and good governance known as gsp+ provide for additional trade preferences for countries which ratify and effectively implement 27 specific international conventions, including those on core international human rights and labour rights. all gsp arrangements can be temporarily withdrawn from those countries where there is evidence of serious and systematic violation of the principles contained in those conventions. this is not just a hollow threat. it has happened in several cases such as myanmar and belarus, where the general gsp arrangement was withdrawn, and in sri lanka, where the gsp+ was withdrawn. we are committed to improving environmental and social standards globally. for the time being, the main mechanisms for pursuing these political objectives are bilateral, given the limited prospects for the establishment of multilateral rules and relations between trade, labour and the environment within the wto framework. that has led to our insistence on the inclusion in bilateral trade agreements of provisions on sustainable development. it does not mean that we are not active more widely. we continue to do what we can to take forward this agenda within the international organisations such as the wto and the international labour organisation. i know that parliament is also concerned about the increasing risks of environmental and social dumping and the consequent distortions of competition on the eu market. we share these concerns and will continue to make full use of all the options available in our own legislation and through the sustainable development clauses in bilateral free trade agreements in order to counter these risks. a further important aspect is that of investment. european businesses which invest in bangladesh play a vital role in helping to stimulate economic growth and create jobs. they can also, of course, help in improving employment practices and working conditions, not least given that many of them have brought corporate social responsibility policies and initiatives into the workplace in third countries. i know that corporate social responsibility is of particular concern to this parliament, and we look forward to reading your report on this issue in response to the commission’s latest communication. the factory fire in bangladesh should serve as a warning to all of us. we cannot allow the lives of workers there or indeed anywhere to be put at risk. we need to develop further our work through concrete projects to improve working conditions. we must make full use of the eu’s own instruments, such as the gsp, to exert pressure on those countries which routinely allow basic safety standards to be flouted. we need to work as intensively as possible in multilateral organisations such as the wto and ilo to improve core international obligations in this area, and we need to ensure that businesses from the eu are able, when they invest overseas, to be a force for good in pushing for the highest standards in the workplace. i can assure the honourable members that we will be working intensively in all these areas to ensure that tragedies such as that in bangladesh recently are never repeated.
member of the commission. − mr president, as we have heard from the minister, the fire in the garment factory in ashulia in bangladesh has brought to the forefront a problem which exists in so many places, and that is shortcomings in the adoption and application of social standards especially in the garment industry in south asia. there is no better way to pay tribute to the loss of life there and which occurs in many other places, than for the eu to bring forward this issue in our engagement with our trade partners and take decisive action in this regard. this is exactly what we are determined to do and this is exactly what we do. let me bring to your attention what has happened in the meantime. firstly, the eu representatives in dhaka reacted swiftly. in the aftermath of the fire a project co-funded by the eu and germany for the improvement of social and environmental standards in industries helped to provide medical assistance to victims, and food and other items to the affected families. the eu ambassadors issued a joint statement of condolence which highlighted the importance we attach to social issues and safety in particular to our relations with third countries we trade with. we fully recognise our role and responsibility as bangladesh’s largest trade partner. fifty seven per cent of bangladesh’s exports go to the eu and the vast majority of those exports are clothing and textiles. consequently what happens in the social sphere in bangladesh is of direct concern to our businesses, to our consumers and to our society. secondly, we have consistently made occupational health and safety a core element in the work we do on the ilo decent work agenda and, with other partners, we are supporting concrete projects in many countries including bangladesh. those include support to the government and employers’ associations to provide compliance audits in factories and training for labour inspectors and factory compliance officers. we are also working closely with the bangladesh fire service and civil defence directorate. for example, we have provided equipment and training to help improve the directorate’s fire-fighting capabilities in factories. thirdly, our ambassador, william hanna, met with officials of the bangladesh garment manufacturers and exporters association last month to discuss cooperation on factory safety in the garment sector in bangladesh. fourthly, the eu heads of mission in dhaka have agreed that their missions should have a discussion in early 2013 with representatives of major eu garment companies concerning factory safety. we will be happy to inform you of the outcome of these discussions. we in the eu have made a commitment to strongly support the promotion and implementation of internationally recognised standards of corporate social responsibility and the minister has already spoken in great detail on that. we see the un guiding principles for business and human rights as a cornerstone of how we approach dialogue with governments on this issue. that has already taken place at the eu-bangladesh joint commission meeting held here in december. not only then, but improving working conditions in bangladesh has been a topic before in our systematic engagement with bangladesh. for example in 2011, we had a seminar in dhaka on the decent labour agenda which brought together representatives from all sectors. its recommendations were handed over to the government of bangladesh. they reflect the concerns expressed by parliament in the resolution of 8 june 2011 on the external dimension of social policy. parliament resolution of 23 october 2012 on the future of eu development policy brought this issue to the attention of the government of bangladesh, stressing the importance of addressing social inequalities in the context of the country’s rapid economic growth. stimulating trickle-down of the wealth generated by the garment and other industries to the poorest segments of society is, and will be, key for the future stability of the country and is integrated in our development dialogue with bangladesh. let me just sum up by saying that this was a case that raised awareness internationally and has of course received much attention in the eu, specifically regarding relations with bangladesh and also with other countries. let us just mention pakistan, a country where there was also a fire of a similar nature, although luckily not with such a tragic and massive loss of life. i want to thank the european parliament very much for staying focused and interested and for urging us to do our utmost. this is not only for the safety of people in developing countries, but also for the european union’s standing – as the minister said – as a force for good in this regard.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not 112 people died in a major fire at the tazreen textile factory in dhaka on november 24, 2012. her suffering has shocked people all over the world. in september, nearly 300 workers were killed in an explosion at a textile factory near karachi, pakistan. many of them might still be alive today if the security requirements of the government and the regulations of european employers had been observed. but often the checks are just an alibi and too lax. the guilty go unpunished, responsibility is shifted too often. the grievances are carried on the backs of the workers. factory owners make the most of it and companies in europe also benefit from low purchase prices. asian governments must be persuaded to implement workplace safety in a consistent manner. bangladesh has certainly made progress, particularly in combating child labour in the textile sector. we want to acknowledge that. but ilo standards must be respected! just lip service is not enough. in europe too, there is a need to educate people about many production conditions which are pathetic, including the value of environmental standards, the value of social standards. we need consumer pressure as an effective weapon to bring about sustainable change. i think it is a bit exaggerated, however, to call for legal intervention at international level. provisions in bilateral treaties between the european union and third countries are sufficient. they just have to be implemented consistently! i am thinking, for example, of sanctions against those global companies that violate treaties. the fires show that some companies do not respect social responsibility. they advertise with csr, or corporate social responsibility, and justify higher prices with a social commitment. but on the ground, hardly anything changes for the workers. this is a gross violation of trust. the european approach to csr, on the other hand, is a model. small and medium-sized enterprises are active in society and have a social responsibility. the principle of voluntary csr must be maintained. it motivates us to make greater efforts. the epp group expressly supports those measures which have brought about positive changes.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all buy and wear clothes from c&a, h&m, benetton, tommy hilfiger and other big corporations, and we pay too little attention to the value chain behind them. how is it that child labour is used to produce wool in uzbekistan, then clothing is produced under inhumane conditions in pakistan and bangladesh, and then sold at high prices here in europe, maximising the profits of these corporations? we must demand that our european companies live up to their social responsibilities. first, they must demonstrate clearly, as individual companies, how they are designing their value chain in line with the international standards of the oecd for csr. i therefore call on the commission to introduce a reporting obligation for large companies, requiring them to report their csr policies in the same way as their economic business data. secondly, these companies must also act together. if there is a competitive displacement for the lowest price, a sole proprietorship can be as good as it wants to be. we must ensure that european companies commit themselves collectively to social standards. that is why i am calling on businesseurope to take action here. this would be a sensible role for businesseurope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i look at the prices of clothing in shops in europe, where we can buy jeans for three or four euros, and when i think of how many of our fellow citizens are grateful that it is even possible, that given the situation on the labour market, given low wages, they can afford such jeans even within the european union, then i think it is easier populism to scold large corporations. but it's not real. it is also true that the people of europe are also benefiting from this globalisation in the textile sector. nevertheless, trade policy can and must contribute to improving standards. we are already doing this by means of binding clauses in our agreements. trade in general helps to ensure that these countries, where workers are currently working in very difficult conditions, can also work their way up. it is also a sign of development that the textile industry must always develop, must always move from one country to another, because fortunately the textile industry is one of the industries that stand at the beginning of the economic development of a country. we should not forget the positive aspects for the people. but i ask the european commission: what has the european commission done in recent years to make sure that things outside of foreign trade policy have improved? foreign trade policy can and must support this. but what has the commission done, for example within the international labour organisation, to ensure that standards are finally made binding not only in the wto but also in other organisations, for example the ilo? what has the commission done in recent years to ensure that binding measures can finally be enforced in a dispute settlement procedure within the ilo, as in the wto? why is trade policy always the subject of criticism, and why do other policies not take their responsibilities into account? i ask the commission what action it has taken in the international standards bodies in which it is represented to promote better standards here. i would encourage and would be very grateful if the commission could also take up the matter of the european commission starting an intensive dialogue between industry and representatives of the producer countries on minimum standards, not just government regulation but voluntary commitments that companies impose on themselves. the subject of csr has been raised on several occasions. i am talking about an effective dialogue, led by the european union, with the representatives in the countries on fire prevention measures, structural and organizational, on effective control systems. other countries can learn a great deal from the european union. how can we monitor compliance more effectively? i would be grateful if the commission could tell me later whether it really intends to take up this or that suggestion in the short term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. such disasters happen all the time. when it happens, it affects everyone and then you go back to the drawing board. see you next time. why would you do that? because some companies cannot earn enough or consumers only want cheap or can only afford cheap. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the question is, who is really responsible for these catastrophic accidents and conditions? of course, the factory management, the politicians, the local authorities, but also the companies here in europe and us as politicians. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. now, nobody can talk about it, even though supply chains are very fuzzy. that is why our resolution is so important. there's a lot to do! we need to strengthen local independent trade unions, we need to properly implement the eight core ilo conventions, we need to have transparent supply chains, we need to improve health and safety standards and we need to step up independent safety audits. the european commission must also promote and enforce the concept of corporate social responsibility. i am disappointed that the conservative-liberal majority in the house will not agree to our amendment, which is about adequate protection and fair treatment for victims of such disasters. you should think about it again by tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families of those who have lost loved ones in the factory fires in bangladesh in recent months. it is a real tragedy to lose loved ones to such events. this is all the more so since these incidents were actually foreseeable. i therefore expressly support this resolution. but at the same time i would also like to point out that we in the european parliament and in the member states should really do everything in our power to prevent such tragedies. it is not enough to adopt resolutions, hold seminars or even draw up joint condolence lists, but because of this tragic accident, because of the deaths of many people, because of child labour, because of the lack of controls, because of the huge damage to the image caused by this accident, we are forced to act quickly and correctly. we must really ask ourselves what kind of image we are spreading of the european union, and how this is compatible with our claim to respect human rights. the obligation to socialise must no longer be discussed in theory, but must be put into practice in poor countries too, and we as major importers must do our part. this is not only in the interests of the workers in these countries, but - as we have just seen - also in the interests of the companies themselves, who certainly want to avoid such tragedies in the future.
mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we must be careful in this discussion not to confuse cause and effect. the first is that the accidents are tragic and parliament's sympathy is rightly with the victims. but if free trade is to be blamed here, we risk throwing the baby out with the bath. we have clear evidence that the countries of the world that are integrated into the global economy are doing better economically than those that are isolated. it's a fact that social standards in the emerging and developing countries are not the same as in our country because people are poor. we need free trade, open access for products from emerging and developing countries to the european market. and that doesn't mean that social standards aren't being respected. but if we are now being asked to close borders more quickly or to overburden the whole thing with regulations, then we are going the wrong way. we should open up the markets. at the same time, the commission must ensure that our companies which buy there actually do work in bangladesh to ensure that social standards are respected. at the same time, we should be taking steps in development aid to enable countries like bangladesh to comply with the ilo's requirements or standards. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: i have come forward because of your intervention, mr theurer. i do not see anyone in this house wanting to restrict international trade, particularly because of the good experience europe has had with the single market. but international trade, as we understand it in europe, always involves responsibility, not only social policy and not only development policy, but also the responsibility of companies, companies based in europe, which can buy goods cheaply and, in my view, must also comply with the ilo conventions. these ilo conventions are not reviewed and not universally observed. so please do not throw out the child with the bath, very free trade, but with responsibility!
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. madam president, thank you very much for your intervention, because it gives me the opportunity to make it clear that i am in favour of ilo rules being respected. however, i do not think we can achieve this by adding bureaucratic obstacles to free trade agreements. i understand that mrs regner has questioned the market economy model. we'd be going the wrong way. if we agree that free trade increases prosperity, then that is a very important point. the second point is - and i agree with you - that companies have a social responsibility, but so do consumers. i would therefore ask the commission: do you have any evidence that european companies are deliberately flouting social standards, ilo standards? if so, you should let us know.
question for the commissioner: mr theurer, would you agree that, after the debate you had with mrs weiler, it is clear that trade policy cannot solve the problem on its own and that we must finally insist that all the policy areas make their contribution, that labour issues and all the other issues are finally regulated in a binding way at world level, and that the commission should therefore urgently take care not to put all the blame on trade policy but to really commit the other policy areas as well?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. in fact, i see the concern that trade policy is overburdened and cannot do it alone. but the question of global standards is also how to enforce them. in the development policy debates, we always demand that the sovereignty of developing and emerging countries be respected. i also see a country like bangladesh as being responsible. if we as europeans can support bangladesh's progress in terms of social standards, then i think that is the right way forward, but i look forward to the commission's answer to this question now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. corruption is something that undermines the market economy because it restricts fair competition, fraud leads to misuse of public funds. that is why it is important to me, as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, that we do everything we can to improve the fight against fraud. i would like to thank the commission for its communication, including the announcement of the directive on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. mr barnier, we in this house would have wished much earlier that the commission had taken the initiative here, and we ask you whether you can still ensure that this late proposal in june of this year will ensure that the whole thing can come into force during this period of parliament and the commission. the report you have presented shows that the irregularities which must be classified as fraud have led to a loss of eur 400 million, and the irregularities which do not constitute fraud amount to eur 1.5 billion, so there is reason to act. first of all, we as liberals want the rules to be simplified so that irregularities which are not fraudulent cannot take place in the first place. simplification of administration is always the best way to protect against irregularities. however, where there has been a criminal act, the state must respond. we have no instruments at all at european level to be able to react effectively. this must be changed urgently. we need uniform standards at european level and an institution that can act. olaf is important here. however, the dalli case has shown that olaf also reaches its limits and that the rule of law is violated in part because the monitoring committee was unable to fulfil its tasks in this particular case. we must ensure that this is improved in the reform of olaf. and we expect the commission to give parliament access to the final case report in the dalli case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have been working on this subject for a long time in committee. there are three or four committees involved. corruption and fraud have been on our agenda for a long time because it's not just about financial damage. of course, this is especially so in our day and age, when we scrape together practically every penny for investment. that's why it's important. but it's also about the loss of trust in public and democratic institutions. this also affects all of us, not only at elections but also at other times. europe and the member states together, i stress, have a shared responsibility, because fraudsters also operate transnationally and globally. that is why we cannot fight this problem at national level alone. we have learned from discussions with olaf and other experts that there are some good laws. but sometimes there are duplicate structures and sometimes unfortunately there are missing structures, and that of course hinders the work of the investigators. the commission has also been very active in the field of taxation. the eu's agreements with switzerland or liechtenstein are on hold because we are not getting any further. and certain financial transactions in luxembourg, austria or the uk, jersey and so on are ignored. that too must change. corruption and fraud are not just a problem in the new member states. italy is a special example, but not only italy. even in my own country, i must say self-critically, not everything is in the best of shape when it comes to corruption. in addition to what mrs fajon said, i would like to mention four brief points. we must work to prevent fraud. this means training and a value debate in public services and private companies, including on social responsibility. second, we need to tackle corruption in politics. european prosecutor: commissioner, i believe you promised yourself, you spoke of next year. i think it's this year. and we need better cooperation with third countries, with our neighbours, switzerland, etc., but also with america and asia.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! the eu and its member states may have committed the greatest sin of omission in not having taken up the fight against corruption much earlier and more decisively. how good it would have been if, at one of their fine summits before the outbreak of the euro crisis, the heads of state or government had spoken openly and honestly about the situation in some member states and, above all, about the problem of corruption! the eu cannot be built on corrupt administrations. we see it every day now. in june 2011, the commission decided to report regularly on the fight against corruption in the member states. this year, the first report is due. it's a shame it takes two years when we actually have a lot of data. why is it taking so long, commissioner? i would also like to encourage the commission to introduce a traffic light system, a traffic light that clearly indicates progress, stagnation or regression. i would like to ask you not to send us another report that is just a bunch of words, without substance, that says nothing, like our progress reports on our candidate countries in the balkans. in july 2012, the commission proposed a directive on combating fraud, on the harmonisation of criminal law. i consider this a breakthrough, a milestone in the real fight against these crimes, because without harmonization of criminal law we will not be able to achieve deterrence. this groundbreaking legal basis, this draft, is now unfortunately being torn apart in the battle over the responsibilities of the committees here in the house. the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities, together with the legal affairs committee, disputes the commission's legal basis, namely article 325. they want the second paragraph of article 83. this not only gives the uk, ireland and denmark an opt-out, but also removes parts of the criminal record of corruption. we are dealing with a strange debate here. all are in favour of fighting corruption, but when it becomes serious, the committee will at least partially exclude corruption from the proposal for a directive. the responsibility for this lies with those who have started the debate here and are so passionately committed to the fight against corruption. corruption is a pressing problem, yes, and the euro crisis is exacerbating that problem. greece was ranked 78th in the corruption index two years ago, and now it is ranked 94th. so it actually got significantly worse. the same trend is seen in italy, which has dropped five places from 72nd to last. i therefore ask the honourable members to accept the commission's legal basis, article 325, so that we can achieve real and rapid successes in the fight against corruption!
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is not the first time we have discussed the subject of corruption. it's been going on for a while. i think it is time now - as many colleagues have made clear - to bring real measures into the debate and to adopt them. this means not just thinking about tightening up but actually putting the existing fundamentals into practice. in many member states, existing anti-corruption laws have not yet been implemented. we must work to ensure that they are implemented. and then we need new measures, but also measures based on common european standards, such as the european public prosecutor, who of course must be particularly active in the area of economic crime and the fight against corruption, also because he has the distance to the action. that is good, but it can only be done if there are also european procedural standards and a european criminal law that has been well worked out with parliament.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, as set out in her statement of 24 november, the high representative regrets that it was not possible to convene the proposed conference on the establishment of a middle east zone free of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery in the course of 2012. she hopes, as we all do, that the conference can be convened as soon as possible. i can assure you, in the meantime, that the eu will remain fully committed to supporting, however we can, the objective of achieving a middle east zone free of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. i would like to commend and support the tireless efforts of ambassador jaakko laajava of finland who, as conference facilitator, has worked tirelessly for more than a year to lay the groundwork for a successful conference in which all states of the region will participate. the eu has played its part in supporting the ambassador, including through two very useful initiatives, and we will continue to support him. the eu has been committed to the goal of promoting the establishment of a middle east zone free of weapons of mass destruction for some time. in 1995, of course, the union and its member states subscribed to the barcelona declaration, as did all the members of the euro-mediterranean partnership. the objective of achieving such a zone is now ingrained in the union’s strategy against weapons of mass destruction and has its roots in the 2003 european security strategy. we will spare no effort to assist the facilitator in his important ongoing work to lay the groundwork for a successful conference. members will also be aware of the high representative’s engagement with the quartet and in the eu 3+3 dialogue with iran. it is of course important to remember the broader, and often intertwined, political and unresolved issues at stake. in light of the middle east’s history of conflict and tension, and given the many serious political and security challenges which still face the region, it would be easy for everybody to fall into the trap of pessimism. it is important, of course, to avoid this. pessimism has been allowed to prevail too often in efforts towards a nuclear-free zone in the middle east since 1974. it prevailed at the arms control and regional security talks between egypt and israel in the early 1990s. pessimism can become self-fulfilling. despite the hopeful changes recently brought about by the emergence of new decision-makers and of new social and economic developments in the region, the danger remains that scepticism and pessimism might prevent similar improvements in regional security. to borrow the words of john maynard keynes, the difficulty lies not in the new ideas but in escaping from the old ones which ramify into every corner of our minds. having come so far, following more than a year of intensive work by the facilitator and his team, both in the region and beyond, we, the european union, and the wider international community and civil society must keep the momentum going and look at possible ways forward. any attempt to politicise the concept of a zone must be resisted. multilateral consultations among the concerned countries of the region, under the auspices of the facilitator, must continue. confidence and trust amongst the states of the region are crucial. this is the first ingredient of any political dialogue, bilateral or multilateral. the process towards a zone is no exception. there are issues on which agreement on possible interim steps might be possible, if the actors involved can avoid pessimism and leave behind old ideas. there are confidence-building measures to be found and offered as the process moves forward. what is needed is a willingness by each party to engage and to look for possible accommodations, not just from the other side, but from their own. the european parliament has been very active in supporting this process with its own resolutions on the non-proliferation treaty, including strong language in support of the establishment of a zone free of all wmds in the middle east. the facilitator was invited on several occasions to debrief the european parliament on the state of play of his consultations. the eeas contributed with two major academic seminars on the subject organised in brussels in july 2011 and in november 2012 through the eu non-proliferation consortium of think-tanks. the quality of the background papers produced, the frankness of the debates, the broad participation of high-level officials alongside academic experts and civil society representatives, including an honourable member of this parliament, have certainly helped the facilitator, who attended, with his team, the meeting in brussels on 5 and 6 november 2012. our commitment to the final goal of a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction in the middle east has been a solid one since 1995 and our contribution to the process is unequivocal. our readiness to assist the facilitator and his team further is absolutely clear. finally, i want to convey the high representative’s personal hope that the conference will be convened as soon as possible, and i join her in this hope. we need to stress the absolute need for the main actors in the region, conveners with the active contribution of civil society, to explore and find ways to keep the process moving forward. what will ultimately determine failure or success is not a single event linked to a stringent deadline, but a series of steps that will bring the process forward each time until the time will be ripe for a ‘win-win’ solution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam minister, dear lucinda, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is hardly a sane person who would not want a world free of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the formal or de facto establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones or zones free of weapons of mass destruction in general has been achieved in different parts of the world to varying degrees. we have shown in this resolution where more has already been achieved than elsewhere. the postponement of the conference on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east is regrettable. but i frankly admit that i fear it would have failed had it been held in 2012. i believe that the parties to the middle east conflict will probably only be able to be persuaded to abolish their arsenals of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons once the main reasons or pretexts for their existence have disappeared. this is the absence of comprehensive peace and consequently of comprehensive security and greater trust in the region. we also say this in paragraph 6 of the resolution, which reads: 'the european parliament believes that peaceful solutions to the conflicts in the middle east could build the necessary confidence for the eventual establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east'. the triad is correct. peace, trust and disarmament are mutually dependent. disarmament before peace and without trust is not realistically to be expected. i want to make it clear that i am not equally concerned about the weapons of mass destruction in the region. i am convinced that the israeli government is extremely responsible in its handling of alleged nuclear weapons and would only use them reactively as a last resort in a situation of existential threat. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. i am much more concerned about iran's nuclear plans, and even more concerned about the danger to many people posed by the real danger that the syrian regime's vast chemical weapons arsenal could fall into uncontrolled hands after the fall of the regime, or that it could be used by the regime itself in a final phase. i think that the inevitable sequence is that first we must put an end to the acute conflicts like syria, then we must achieve a comprehensive peace settlement in the middle east, so that the resulting confidence can be and will be large enough for the framework in which comprehensive disarmament can then be realistically achieved and the objective pursued by this conference.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the agreement, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, is an interim agreement signed and ratified by four countries, originally a larger group of countries, namely the seychelles, madagascar, mauritius and zimbabwe. the agreement, which entered into force provisionally on 14 may last year, is designed to create a legal framework compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation and to replace the existing system of unilateral eu preferences for acp imports. it is important that this agreement should improve and expand trade relations between the two sides. in essence, it provides quota and duty-free access to the eu market for exports from mauritius, madagascar, the seychelles and zimbabwe. the commission has also proposed that the member states should gradually open their markets to european exports over a period of 15 years, excluding certain products which they consider to be problematic. this is the case, for example, with agricultural products. the agreement also contains provisions for an improved trade and investment climate, improved rules of origin and protection measures for young industries. this agreement is a preparatory action for a subsequent comprehensive agreement. and i would like to expressly ask the commission to be aware that we all want this final agreement. the agreement we have today can only be a first step. this agreement contains a review clause providing for continuous negotiations on trade in services, investment, agriculture, rules of origin, sanitary and phytosanitary provisions, technical barriers to trade, customs and trade facilitation and trade-related arrangements. the interim agreement should be seen as an intermediate objective in the context of the eu's relations with african states. it is also the first time that the european union has concluded a bilateral agreement with a black african country, with the exception of agreements with south africa. in addition, the agreement ratified by the four states maintained regional integration in several respects, despite all the difficulties. but it also depends on both sides being really committed to it. i think that in this case the problem was not the european side. the agreement is fully supported by the four african countries, as was confirmed by their representatives in the committee on foreign trade last year, and i am convinced that this has also undermined the arguments of those in the committee who consider that the signing of these agreements is inadmissible and who keep saying that the countries do not want the agreements at all, they do so only because of the strong pressure from the european union. i think the representatives of these countries have been very clear in their comments to us in the committee. there are four amendments for tomorrow. i would ask the honourable members to reconsider the question of ivory. i think we're all united in the fight against ivory smuggling and elephant killing and things like that. but i ask you to simply check again whether this is really the current situation in the country. i hear that despite all the concerns we have about zimbabwe at the moment, because of the difficult human rights situation, there is something going on there in the fight against ivory smuggling. the other is that there is an amendment which provides that these interim agreements should also contain binding rules on human rights and other matters. i would ask my colleagues to reconsider this. i think we can all agree that such a binding provision must be included in the final epa. but this interim agreement is really only supposed to be a first step. we are talking here exclusively about economic issues. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i think we should be a little more flexible. but clearly the final agreements must contain such arrangements. i thank all my colleagues for the good cooperation and would be glad if we could see the fruits of the agreement on both sides, in the interests of all concerned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i also believe that we must distinguish very carefully between the interim epa and a real epa. we called for an epc in the european parliament in 2009, and now the preliminary stage is the interim epc. this is in fact only about market access. i personally would have preferred that we had already agreed on the direction of a sustainability chapter in this interim epa, where the issues of human rights and environmental standards are indicated. this is not the case, but it is not so bad either, because the cotonou agreement is still in force and the eu can also restrict aid in cases of gross violations of human rights and environmental standards. we are not making any concessions in this respect by agreeing to the interim agreement now. it is also clear that this interim agreement can only be a step. it is an asymmetrical agreement, and there are indeed economic benefits for these four countries. there is no question that they have duty-free access without quotas, a 15-year transitional period with the possibility of making exceptions for certain products. so this is an economic advantage for the four countries. if we are now moving towards an epc, it must also be clear that not only these economic matters have to be regulated, but that the very elements which are also regulated in the cotonou agreement have to be addressed. and then it must also be clear that an epa covers the areas of value orientation, that is to say human rights standards, workers' rights, environmental standards. it must be agreed in a clear and simple way. i also hope that the commission will take this as a signal that we are no longer accepting everything the commission proposes as before, but are taking care to ensure that the future negotiating steps which are now being taken take account of these very criteria. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, our group has insisted that a resolution be adopted alongside the yes or no question on the interim agreement, in which we once again clearly state our views on the future epc negotiations in the field of human rights, particularly as regards zimbabwe. the interim epa offers economic advantages to these four countries, but for the epa which is now coming, we must take very different fundamental negotiating steps. i hope the commission will do the same.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we greens still see some critical points in this economic agreement. the agreement concluded with four east african countries undermines the objective of regional integration, since only four of the sixteen countries of eastern and southern africa are parties to the agreement and thus different customs duties apply within a region. this severely restricts regional trade. the reduction or abolition of customs duties will also cause the government revenues of these countries to collapse. at the same time, cheap imports from the eu can now flood domestic markets and displace local production. eu products can then compete directly with local products, as various studies have shown, for example in the area of industrial and agricultural products. our partner countries in eastern and southern africa have asked for improvements, but they have not been taken into account, for example in the area of flexibility of tariff quotas and better rules of origin. i would also like to know from the commission whether the five-year moratorium is actually only coming into force now or whether you have already set the stopwatch in 2009, so that there would be only a few weeks left for the adjustment. i would also point out that in order to achieve policy coherence in the interests of development, we need our own control mechanisms. we must examine for ourselves whether our policies are development friendly. this is why we have to make sure that we do not restrict the ability of other countries to make policies, for example in the area of export regulations.
question for the commissioner: mr murphy, i can understand that you are critical. but i don't think it's right to always want to tell other countries how to behave. what do you think of mauritius, for example, which has a very strong interest in bringing its agricultural products to the european market and in having the security of not having unfair exports of european products on its market? that is guaranteed by this agreement. would you deny mauritius the sovereignty to make that decision?
question for the commissioner: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. and secondly, were you not present at the committee meeting, where the representatives of all four countries were present and made it very clear to us that they - the governments of these countries, and especially the three democratic ones - have a great interest in these agreements coming into force?
the commission has already done so. i'm afraid i don't have much time. i would therefore like to make it clear once again that this first interim agreement to be applied in africa is being hailed by the commission as a major achievement in relations between africa and the eu. in fact, however, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, most african governments have not accepted the eu commission's demands in the negotiations. that should raise some questions. the four countries mentioned above were the only ones who were invited to sign, taking advantage of various dependencies, so that the commission could finally present a reference agreement and, so to speak, also apply a differentiated approach, contrary to your assessment, mr caspary. this economic partnership agreement does not deserve its name. it serves the eu's external trade interests at the expense of development policy objectives. let us be concrete: the loss of customs revenue will leave a big hole in the public budgets of these countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. money that will be lacking for education and health. and we don't even pay compensation for that, we even cut development aid. i therefore agree with what my colleagues have said: this epa is jeopardizing regional integration in southern and eastern africa within the framework of comesa. it effectively excludes the countries from joining a future customs union with other african countries and cements the eu's role as a major export destination for agricultural raw materials. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the recommendation of our committee on development and refuse to give your consent tomorrow. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, i was delayed because the train from paris arrived in strasbourg about 40 minutes late because of the snow. of course when you are on that train you prefer it to go a little slower if there is a possibility of snow on the rails. having said that, i apologise again. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr caspary, for his constructive work in bringing to the vote the interim economic partnership agreement with eastern and southern africa. this is the first interim epa to be implemented on the african continent. the commission trusts, therefore, that the european parliament will support this agreement, which has been concluded with countries that have a forward-looking approach to their trade and development agenda and take their commitments seriously. getting this far with an epa is important in terms of sustaining good governance and creating institutions that will implement the obligations in the agreement. all four signatory states have clearly demonstrated their willingness to establish their relationship with the eu on a long-term, stable and predictable basis and establish a partnership that goes beyond purely commercial issues to achieve its overarching development objectives. the commission believes that the agreement with the esa region will be as successful as the agreements with the caribbean and the pacific, where investment has been triggered as a result. i thank honourable members for the interest and support shown on the issue of human rights in zimbabwe. i deeply appreciate the role of the european parliament as a guardian of respect for good governance, democracy and human rights. the commission believes that the interim economic partnership agreement supports development through a deeper trade relationship. experience shows that, once implemented, a trade agreement helps to develop a culture of openness. for open markets to work, a set of institutions needs to be established which, in turn, have a positive impact on sustaining better governance and public accountability. those effects may be less visible in the short term than higher investment volumes and growth rates. in actual fact, new economic benefits create new interests in sustainability based on a stable economic environment. for this reason, the commission considers that agreements like this interim epa also contribute to the improvement of human rights. peer pressure from other signatories to the agreement also helps. as regards zimbabwe, the european commission takes note of general improvements in the human rights situation in the country but equally supports the calls for peace and non-violence. the eu continues to raise concerns over incidents relating to the intimidation and harassment of democratic forces and civil society organisations. i would like to stress that the suspension of the application of article 96 of the cotonou agreement should be regarded as a means of encouraging thorough implementation of the commitments contained in the 2008 global political agreement. however, the measures can be renewed if the situation of human rights in the country degenerates. in replying to the debate, i would like to make the following points. first of all, on the overall human rights situation in zimbabwe, which, while still of concern, has improved since the inception of the global political agreement. levels of harassment and abuse have generally been reduced since the government of national unity took office in february 2009, especially over the past two years. licences have been awarded for several independent newspapers which are regularly published and are of good quality. additionally, the government has appointed constitutional commissions on human rights and the media, which are expected to contribute to the improvement of the overall environment. i would like to emphasise that the eu has a longstanding and long-term commitment vis-à-vis zimbabwe that stretches beyond the lifespan of individual reports. the eu has actively worked with zimbabwe since the inception of the government of national unity and, in future, will continue to support institutions and processes aimed at creating a democratic and prosperous zimbabwe. with regard to the remark made by mr lange on the human rights clause, article 65 of the interim epa contains a so-called non-execution clause which is an important link with the cotenou agreement, whose article 96 allows appropriate measures against countries violating the agreement’s essential elements, such as human rights. this important provision can be used to take trade measures to deal with the situation where the human rights record in a specific country deteriorates. theoretically this could lead to the suspension of trade preferences. however, the eu has never used this tool with the acp countries. in practice the measures under article 96 of the cotenou agreement target development cooperation funding, which may not be channelled to the governments. with regard to zimbabwe, in july 2012 the eu decided to suspend some of the restrictive measures which had been in place for the last decade in recognition of an improvement in the situation. the statements in the european parliament’s resolution sent a completely contradictory signal in that respect. finally, i agree with mr rinaldi that work on the human rights aspect with regard to zimbabwe does not end here. cathy ashton is leading the work on human rights, which will continue. we look forward to this epa supporting that agenda, as it should. other voices in this room tonight expressed a deep scepticism about this epa, and i take note of them. let us see how things develop as the epa is implemented. trade results need time. at this time i can only quote the examples of papua new guinea and the caribbean. this very parliament has reported positive socio-economic developments since the epa with these regions has been implemented. as for breaking up regional integration, esa is unfortunately a region that is not geographically continuous, but negotiations with the whole region have picked up momentum and i wish them much success.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you, commissioner, for the clarifications you have just given. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have dealt with this highly controversial matter in the past few weeks. i am also convinced that our solution with the accompanying resolution is a good solution. there are a number of concerns we have here. i would like to make it clear once again that we are all not happy with the interim agreement. i think that the majority of people think that it is a good solution, and i would once again urge the commission to do everything possible to ensure that we can move forward with the negotiations with the other countries and that you can present a final agreement to us within this decade.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is working on a revision of the customs code and there are rumours - there have also been several press reports over the past year - that a list of non-preferential origin may be introduced. what's the situation today? today, the essential factor in determining the origin of a product is the last substantial economically justified working or processing carried out in a specifically designed industrial establishment, leading to a new product or constituting a substantial stage of production. that's the rule today. if we were to introduce a rigid list system, this would be difficult, because so far the country of origin of a product is determined by the country of export. the lists would reverse this, i.e. the importing countries would determine the origin of the products. this leads to various difficulties. it is repeatedly stated by parts of the commission that the wto is about to revise the preferential rules of origin and that the wto majority is planning to introduce these lists. but it is not just imports into the european union that are at stake, it is also exports from the european union. let us imagine that our trading partners would change the rules too. that means that our exporters would have to know the rules of origin of over 180 countries in the world. this would lead to enormous difficulties if we could no longer rely on the existing system but if each country had its own rules. i would therefore like to put to the commission the following questions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. can the commission also ensure that perhaps in the wto negotiations there will be pressure to maintain the current system and that we find a special arrangement for the few disputed anti-dumping cases?
author. − mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to raise the issue of non-preferential rules of origin with you in plenary today. ‘better late than never’, i feel compelled to say, as we already tabled this question about a year ago. this was at a time when the internal market and the committee on international trade were drafting their report on the modernisation of the customs code. nevertheless it is still important to have this discussion on the proposed introduction of the ‘list rules’, as my colleague already mentioned, for the non-preferential origin of goods, and hear the commission’s answers to our questions. this is all the more important as business and customs officials fear the rise of new bureaucratic burdens if these rules for the determination of the origin were to be changed. my colleagues from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have been working intensively on the recast of the union customs code and adopted their report with a broad majority at the end of last year. the report states very clearly that the current concept for the determination of non-preferential origin of goods should be maintained. this is, and i quote, ‘when they underwent their last substantial economically justified processing or working’. this definition is very clear and has served as a solid basis in international trade for decades, so why change it? the commission says the introduction of list rules would bring greater legal certainty for the determination of origin and in anti-dumping cases. well, in my view this is quite a theoretical approach. practitioners have been complaining that the legal certainty is not improved, and anti-dumping cases only involve 0.7% of all imports into the eu. so i think we should stick to the saying: ‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it’. from the perspective of international trade, the proposed changes are particularly sensitive. they would have obliged eu importers to comply with the new eu rules instead of applying the domestic laws of origin as is currently the case. we should be very careful with such requests to our trade partners as it would also mean that eu producers would have to apply the multitude of rules of origin of the multitude of destination countries to which we are exporting. knowing you, commissioner de gucht, i think it is not your intention to make trade more complicated for eu producers. so i would like to thank you for being here tonight and i am looking forward to hearing your answers on the questions we have raised.
question for the commissioner: dear colleague fjellner, thank you very much. did you also understand the commissioner to say that the exporting country should still decide when it comes to the european union, but the importing country should decide when things are imported into the european union, so that we as the european union treat our exports differently from our imports? and did you also understand the commissioner to say that nothing changes for our exporters, because we assume that the countries to which we export will of course continue to apply the existing rules and that we will not therefore end up in the chaos of exporters having to know the lists of 150 countries?
the commission has already done so. i am glad that we seem to have broad agreement in this house in all the major political groups that we do not want the proposals that have been made so far by the commission, because we believe that non-preferential rules of origin - as mrs fjellner has just pointed out - are of particular importance for trade, and we therefore want to stick to simple rules. the committee on the internal market took part in the debate on the question of the uniform customs code last year in an own-initiative report. and here too, in 2011, we agreed that we wanted to keep the current non-binding rules in place because we felt that they were particularly suited to the needs of the european economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the discussions at wto level are in principle aimed at ensuring that these rules are simplified. i therefore believe that any premature change at european union level would be dangerous because it would call into question the tried and tested and well-functioning system we have in europe. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to try to ensure that we do not abandon the pragmatic approach we have followed in europe to date, but that we keep the debate focused on the fact that even if changes are necessary at wto level, they will be made in such a way that european companies can continue to use these rules to follow the good practice they have in europe today.
the commission has already done so. the customer is king, not the airline milk cow! that should be your rule, not defending the market here! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. then they offer cheap prices without the passenger knowing. that has to change! we need the framework conditions, that's what they're for! the framework conditions must be applied generally to all airlines. you can't take money out of people's pockets! if the airlines then consider that you have to pay for the use of the toilet yourself, then that shows what nasty tricks are involved here. if the commission defends this practice, then we should not be surprised that the citizens of europe no longer feel anything for the european union. there's more at stake here than that. advocate for fair rules that apply to all! it can't be that the passengers are the ones the airlines ripped off.
i have to say, madam president, the european union stresses that consumer protection, fair competition and the transparency of the rules are at its heart. the reality is different, at least in the complex of issues we are discussing here today. we have all experienced firsthand that airlines differ greatly in their definition of what constitutes a piece of luggage and what pieces of luggage and how many you can take on board. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the crisis. the example of the woman from lyon is well known, who was forcibly removed from the plane simply because she refused to hand over either her handbag or a plastic bag containing a product she had bought after the check-in, i.e. one of the two pieces of luggage. this can't go on! we need a europe-wide, harmonised regulation. the european union has lost a lot of trust in the citizens of the european union recently. we're considered bureaucratic and not consumer-friendly. this is an opportunity to regain lost trust. do it, take the opportunity and give the citizens the right they have.
the commission has already done so. we have a system in europe for the free movement of people, services and goods. that's something we've written on our flag. we do not want excessive regulation, of course, but we do want reasonable conditions. in my view, what we have at the moment is lack of transparency, failure to respect passenger rights and, in some cases, arbitrariness. one example of many that i have experienced myself: i flew a low-cost airline in europe; i only had a small bag and my purse with me. i almost shouldn't have been allowed on the plane because i had those two pieces of luggage. i could even push them together, but i didn't see it. there was a rack where you could put everything. the luggage is only half full. i showed them. they said i had to pay or leave. so it was really a big drama. i was deliberately trying to provoke this because i wanted to know what was going on, because i'm on the transportation committee. other passengers may not be able to express themselves and exercise their rights. this can't be happening! i am against over-regulation, but we need sensible rules.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, today in the eu, companies can mark the origin of goods on a voluntary basis. the purpose of the so-called ‘made in’ proposal was to impose mandatory marking of origin for imported goods of selected industrial categories. we know the importance the european parliament attaches to origin-marking, and we are mindful of its support to the proposal in first reading. the commission has made every effort to achieve progress on this legislative proposal, taking account of the amendments adopted by the european parliament. however, seven years after the proposal was tabled, we must face reality: there has been no progress since the vote of the european parliament and there are no genuine prospects for a political compromise amongst the various institutions. in addition, following the recent wto rulings, there are now real concerns in terms of the wto compatibility of the proposal. these rulings clarify for the first time that origin-marking may fall under a specific wto agreement: the wto agreement on technical barriers to trade. given the specific provisions of that agreement, there is a significantly increased risk, due in particular to the fact that the ‘made in’ proposal would apply only to products imported from some third countries and, notably, not to domestic eu products. moreover, since the outbreak of the crisis, the focus of the proposal on imports has become more controversial in a context where the eu has been one of the strongest advocates against protectionism. taking account of this backdrop and after careful consideration, the commission included the withdrawal of the proposal in its work programme for 2013. at this stage this is an intention to withdraw. we are now in the midst of the interinstitutional process, whereby the council and the european parliament have the possibility to comment and the commission may eventually decide effectively to withdraw. the matter was discussed in the committee on international trade at the end of november and a technical meeting with the international trade committee took place on 10 january. as regards origin-fmarking schemes in non-eu countries, the commission notes that some countries have origin marking schemes in place, although these generally pre-date the recent rulings. such schemes also differ significantly, notably as regards their coverage. that being said, we have not received reports of any major obstacle faced by european exporters stemming from those schemes. should we do so, naturally that is something to which we would give very close consideration. for these reasons, and notably in the light of our international obligations as clarified in the recent rulings, the commission considers that it cannot at this time pursue legislation action on origin marking on imported goods only, such as that contained in the currently stalled proposal. one option that was evaluated at the time of the original proposal is imposing origin-marking not only for imported goods but also for eu products, namely ‘made in the eu’. this would imply a major change in the scope and objective of the proposal and would therefore require a new proposal on a different legal basis. i do not think, mr moreira, that we can do that in the course of the present procedure. this would in turn require an impact assessment to establish whether such a new legislative initiative would satisfy the conditions established in the treaty, whether there is a demand from eu industry for this and whether there are consumer expectations in that regard. more directly, in the context of an economic crisis, do we want to impose such cost increases on our companies? the commission is not currently pursuing this avenue. however, it will continue to consider the matter further. it would be for the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship, vice-president tajani, to explore the issue more in detail if appropriate. but let us get back to the fundamental motivations behind this debate, namely consolidating a level playing field for our companies in the eu: ensuring protection against fraudulent origin labelling and responding to consumers’ needs for information. recent studies supervised by the commission on textile and leather show that, among consumers’ demands on labelling, origin-marking does not rank among the highest priorities. as to the business environment, the commission is currently looking at how to strengthen the enforcement of the unfair commercial practices directive. the commission will also soon table a package of measures that includes a legislative proposal on the market surveillance of products with the objective of improving enforcement and the control of products entering the union, a legislative proposal on general product safety and a multiannual plan on market surveillance. in a context where the commission is working under resource constraints and strives for better regulation, the commission will further set its course of action according to what can best contribute to promoting growth, competitiveness and consumer confidence. in replying to a number of remarks which have been made in the presentations by the authors, let me say that we have mentioned very clearly to the commission that we have the intention of withdrawing this proposal. the international trade committee was informed in advance through its chair, and in any event this is exactly the purpose of the 2013 commission work programme: to inform the council and parliament of what the commission plans to do in the following year and what it plans not to do or not to do any more. this is fully in line, i believe, with the framework agreement. now parliament has the occasion to make this view known before the commission effectively decides to proceed to withdrawal later in the spring or decides otherwise.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think there are two questions today. the first is the institutional question. the european commission has been presenting a draft law to us for many months, almost years, we have voted something like a large majority in the first reading, and the council, which is not here today, has not done anything for two years. i think we can all agree that this inaction in the council - that our co-legislator has not acted for two years, and has not acted at all - is intolerable. the second question: mr commissioner, you have announced that you will be withdrawing this proposal from the commission's work programme for next year. i would have liked you to have tried, given the current state of affairs - that is to say, we have already had the first reading, although i did not like some of the details - to work with us to make this proposal compatible with the wto, rather than simply withdraw it. the commission has already identified the content of many products entering the european union. i also understand the few consumers who are really interested in knowing the origin. but the question is, in this globalized world that we have today, how do you really explain to our consumer where a product comes from? where does a product come from that has, without a doubt, components from 30, 40, 50 countries and production steps in 30, 40, 50 countries, as is the case with many complex products? i hope that when we are campaigning for the introduction of such a 'made in' label, we will really think about the fact that it also informs the consumer, and that we do not have a regulation that ends up by making the consumer misinformed by governmental decree. i think that we should all think again together about how we can possibly work out a new draft, which i hope will be adopted.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. my group shares the european parliament's strong criticism of the council's unjustified delaying tactics. the citizens of europe have a right to know where a product comes from. i therefore call on the commission to submit a new draft without delay and to include parliament's position in it, precisely because the council has refused to contribute. but citizens want to know more than just the name of a country. this can only be a first step. it is important for consumers in the 21st century, with its increasingly integrated global economy, that production respects social human rights in any country. they want a certificate that the products are not harmful to health and that they were produced in a climate-friendly way. it means fair manufacture, fair trade, transparency for the consumer. i therefore call on the commission to work in the wto to modernise the international trade rules accordingly and not simply to back down on the existing ones. social and environmental dumping must be condemned worldwide if our planet and our societies are not to be endangered by a negative trend in the globalisation of production chains.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. why is it against the proposal? i can see only one reason why individual producers, and above all individual traders in some countries of the european union, have an interest in not making it clear where their products come from, buying cheaply globally and selling at a high price in europe, as if the products were produced in europe under reasonable conditions. we should not give in to this economic self-interest of individual producers and, above all, of a few traders. we want transparency in the supply chain, we want to make sure that everyone knows where products come from and so that fair competition can take place within the european union. that is why i am moved by two points of view, two questions. one is: what is wrong with the council? does the council really want to continue to develop the european union together in the interests of consumers? or is the council giving way to particular economic interests and then basically leaving the european method? i fear that this second option is currently dominating the european council, namely that of not moving europe forward but of allowing particular economic interests to prevail. this is not the way to go. the second question is to the commission: which side are you on? are you more in favour of a council which will allow particular economic interests to prevail, or are you in favour of the european parliament which wants to develop the european union together?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the progress of the political integration process in latin america is impressive. it is a process of emancipation of global significance. the eu should be consistent and constructive in its approach to this issue. mercosur is of central economic importance to south america in this process. our partners in this economic area have invited us to support this historic process through a fair and balanced bi-regional agreement. i therefore expressly welcome, commissioner, the clear agreement by the eu, brazil and other mercosur countries to actively contribute to the preservation and deepening of the multilateral world trade system and to the revival of the doha round through their trade agreement negotiations and the development of economic cooperation. but this requires a revision of the current doctrine that trade agreements should always be designed to maximise the eu's external economic interests alone, in the light of comparable negotiating results in the us. the global economic situation in the second decade of the 21st century, with the common global challenges to be met, requires a new type of trade cooperation: good jobs for all, training opportunities, participation in social development processes, education and research, overcoming poverty and hunger, climate change. my group can only consistently vote against agreements which would obstruct this new task and which would still primarily satisfy the interests of a few groups in terms of raw materials and market access. recent policy decisions by our partners - including argentina and brazil - show that, even if we closely monitor the increasing crisis processes in the eu and the us, there is a political spirit there that wants to put the economy back at the service of the interests of society. we should take that!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for me, this debate has three backgrounds. firstly, we are sending a signal that we want to cooperate with the mercosur countries because we share many common values. mr scholz pointed out the similarities in the fight against unemployment, particularly in what the government in brazil is doing to combat poverty. there are many similarities, there are many economic connections. we want an agreement, a close cooperation. that should be a signal of this debate. secondly, we must also be clear about how we want the negotiations to proceed in the future. this means that we must once again think very carefully about which countries actually want to negotiate with the eu in this basket. does bolivia, does ecuador belong to it? - i know. what about other countries? this has to be resolved quickly. the second is to clarify quickly which elements of the negotiations are ultimately to be included in the basket. it is not possible that the demands of the european side and what the mercosur countries can do are so different. it needs to be sorted. and we need to do it fast! thirdly, a line must be drawn: either yes or no. but this process cannot continue for another ten years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must be careful not to lose sight of our relations with the most important economic bloc in the region, mercosur, especially after we have agreed to the agreements with peru, colombia and central america. the key is to have clear democratic principles and environmental and social standards to be respected. mercosur is made up of brazil, one of the brics countries, and other dynamic economies. for the eu, this represents a huge development potential for the expansion of trade relations. but intensive political and economic links are only beneficial for all those involved and affected if certain rules of the game are respected. the basis of all european external relations must be respect for democratic principles such as the rule of law and human rights. another key requirement is compliance with international environmental and labour standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural products are not subject to the same standards as those of the usa. we support an agreement between the eu and mercosur if these demands are met and the people of both regions benefit in a lasting way from this trade policy rapprochement.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
as a passionate federalist, both at national and european level, i am pleased that iraq is moving towards a federal state. but there are two misunderstandings about federalism that must be defended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only through this unity in diversity will iraq have a future and not fall apart. i therefore urge that we seek close cooperation in this area. the second is that i thank mr mauro for the great way in which he has been working for the minorities and the religious communities in iraq in all their diversity, especially the christians. it would be a travesty of human history if we as the west had intervened in iraq and the result was the destruction of the 2,000 year old christian communities in that country. that is why i attach the greatest importance to the human rights clause.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if the theory is true that military conflicts, that economic instability is not a prerequisite for democratic development, then of course we have an obligation to help those countries. i know it's always a tightrope walk. on the one hand we need economic cooperation - not only we need it, but also the other side - if we are to achieve democratic development, especially in iraq. on the other hand, we must always ensure that human rights are respected in principle without violating the identity of the other. i therefore agreed to the report, but i would also like to see us discussing again in due course how we have used the funds and how cooperation has worked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the dilemma which the honourable member rightly referred to a year ago is of course particularly relevant to zimbabwe. on the one hand, we want to stabilize this important african country and we do not want the civilian population to suffer under any sanctions and the poorest of the poor to become even poorer. on the other hand, we have been watching for far too long as this dictator mugabe has been wreaking havoc. we really need to speak a clearer language here. so this important report is just the beginning of the development. our vote was good, but we must now begin to combine these two contradictory elements - help for the country, but fight against the regime and its undemocratic outgrowths - in an effective way, so that it is not just words.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr caspary has done an excellent job and i agree with his conclusions. but i must say, it is a very difficult matter. the idea of economic partnership is excellent, especially since it also includes the political dimension and human rights and support for statehood. but the interim agreement is simply a joke, it is a caricature of this economic partnership. it is a small stone on the way to that, it is more a sign of hope, more a sign of encouragement to the states of the region to really come together for regional cooperation. it's in their interest and ours. but we europeans should also act together and not - as in the case of madagascar - suddenly start competing with each other against our own sanctions. that is why we need solidarity not only in africa but also in our own countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have spoken because the aid law is of great importance for the low-carbon economy, that is to say for the promotion of renewable energies and also of efficiency measures. we have a single market and there is competition. that's good. but there is also a good reason for giving state aid in some sectors. the modernisation of this aid law is very important. we have said that the commission should make a proposal soon. it is unacceptable that parliament is only being listened to. this is a democratic deficit which we really must remedy, either by an interinstitutional agreement or, if the treaties are to be amended in the near future, by a new european treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a long-standing member of the south asian delegation, i too am shocked by the fires in textile factories in bangladesh and pakistan. we have a problem here which is not confined to one country but is symptomatic of an industrial sector which is producing ever cheaper products. the textiles we buy for little money in our supermarkets reflect the suffering of the workers in the factories of these countries. first and foremost, of course, there is a responsibility on the part of the companies. there are the standards of the international labour organization. the eu should ensure that our companies comply with this. but consumers also have a responsibility to look at where these products come from and perhaps to make a different choice when they consume them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem of speaking too fast would be solved quickly if you didn't read the text. i am very shocked by the culture of speaking in this parliament, where you read a text and want to convey ten thoughts in a minute. i can't do that. maybe we should just talk openly, then we'll be all right. i was part of the campaign for a europe without nuclear weapons in the 1970s and 1980s. we have achieved an awareness of the dangers of weapons of mass destruction. it would, of course, be very welcome if we could have a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east. we see that if one of us has nuclear weapons, others will want them too. it's a spiral of upgrading. so we can only hope that this conference on a nuclear-free middle east will also take place very soon. mrs ashton said that the eu was doing everything it could to ensure that this conference, and perhaps its success, would come soon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last time for today. it is incomprehensible that the commission should have withdrawn this draft. indications of origin are very important for consumers. if we want to assess whether a product is of good quality, what country it comes from, whether social standards are being met, then this is important. we should continue to urge the commission to make a fresh start on the designation of origin. european companies need a level playing field like companies from other countries. the european parliament should try to exert pressure on this issue.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on violence against women in india.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. on behalf of the epp group, and together with my colleague, mrs kolarska-bobińska, i strongly condemn the recent rapes in india. the victims and their families deserve our full sympathy. we are firmly opposed to all forms of violence against women. india is the world's largest democracy and has important relations with the eu. we therefore expect our partner to respect democratic principles and the rule of law. we call on the indian government to intensify its efforts to prevent sexual violence against women. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the victims must be provided with adequate legal assistance, access to health care and psychological support, and the perpetrators must be punished in accordance with their crimes. in this context, however, we are very clear about our opposition to the death penalty. a change of mind in society is absolutely necessary.
author. − mr president, i am a member of parliament’s delegation to india, and i love the people and the country. but, like all of us, i was shocked by the atrocity of this gang rape against a young student. sexual violence against women is, unfortunately, a widespread phenomenon in india, especially in the capital, delhi. the rape of this young girl is only the tip of the iceberg. in our resolution we ask the indian government to investigate the cases of persons occupying senior official posts – up to the top levels of the parliament and the government – against whom formal accusations of rape are outstanding, and call for those persons to give up their public functions. we call upon the indian authorities to take effective measures to train police forces to handle rape cases better, and we call for the indian criminal law to be amended to punish all forms of sexual assault. the european union and the member states should work with indian authorities on special campaigns and programmes to combat gender-based violence. more has to be done to protect women and to implement article 51 of the indian constitution, which forbids any practice against the dignity of women. parliament’s delegation visits india in early may, and i am sure we will address this issue with our partners in the indian parliament.
question for the commissioner: mr migalski, you know yourself that in india there are mass abortions of girls, i.e. sex-specific abortions, and that there are also mass killings of girls after birth. it is not that there are no cultural causes. there is, of course, a lack of respect for women. we already noted this in december when we debated the dalits.
member of the commission. − mr president, like of all us i was shocked by the appalling rape in new delhi last month and the death of a young woman shortly afterwards. i share the sense of outrage expressed by so many. several men have now been arrested and justice will take its course. this terrible incident has brought the issue of women’s rights in india to the forefront of attention in an unprecedented way and in a way that demands an adequate response. we look forward to the recommendations of the committee headed by former chief justice verma on tackling violence against women. the eu has engaged the indian authorities and civil society on violence and discrimination against women and gender issues for some time already. this topic features prominently in the regular human rights dialogue between the eu and india, the next meeting of which will be held on 22 january in new delhi. at the multilateral level we look forward to engaging with india next march in the framework of the un commission on the status of women. we have also mainstreamed women’s issues into our development cooperation activities with india. large budget sector programmes in education and health have a strong focus on women’s and girls’ welfare, while numerous civil society projects have addressed violence against women, including trafficking and child marriage, domestic violence and hiv/aids. an ongoing project aims at empowering women’s leaders from local government institutions to promote women’s rights. in 1997 the eu contributed eur 1 million to the establishment of a gender training institute in delhi which provides capacity building for women leaders and gender training for a wide range of professions, including government and law enforcement officials. this institute plays an important role in awareness-raising and mobilisation of grassroots communities to help abate gender-based violence in india. high representative catherine ashton personally feels very strongly about this issue and has instructed the eu external action service to raise it at the next eu-india human rights dialogue at the end of january.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in bahrain.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first express my appreciation of the role played by this parliament in making sure that the situation in bahrain remains high on the eu’s agenda. bahrain is a matter of importance and concern to the high representative/vice-president. the wellbeing of the bahraini people and the avoidance of violence from all sides are at the heart of our actions. her numerous statements and her many contacts with bahraini counterparts, including a meeting with the king, testify to this. even if to a lesser extent than in the immediate aftermath of the resurgence of unrest in february 2011, respect for human rights remains an important issue today, while the national reconciliation process still has to be put on more solid tracks. last week we conveyed the vice-president/high representative’s deep disappointment at the decision to uphold the sentences of 13 political activists. we remain convinced that, in the spirit of reconciliation, clemency should be shown towards human rights defenders and political activists detained in bahrain in connection with the 2011 events. the crown prince’s recent offer of dialogue was a very welcome step, as was the encouraging reply from the opposition. we call on all parties to use the current momentum by generally preparing the ground for sustainable reforms. i also take this opportunity to call again on the bahraini government to fully implement the recommendations of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry (bassiouni commission), as well as to follow up on the commitments made during bahrain’s universal periodic review at the end of october. this is crucial in order to build the mutual trust conducive to meaningful and inclusive national dialogue which will enable outstanding issues to be addressed over the long term. in the same vein, i would like to invite the bahraini government to address the social and economic grievances of the bahraini people. the eu stands ready to support bahrain towards reconciliation through the provision of assistance and expertise. finally i would like to warmly welcome the contribution of the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights, following the visit of a delegation of its members to bahrain at the end of december 2012, and express my appreciation for its balanced recommendations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the central african republic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not imagine you're in a palace full of gold, diamonds and precious wood. imagine you have an industrial metropolis full of uranium and the most valuable raw materials. imagine that you have a garden with the most beautiful plants and animals. this is potentially the central african republic. and the reason there is hell on earth is because people have been destroying this horrible country for decades, not just the rebels, but also gangs of robbers of the worst kind, criminal organizations, often backed by corporations. we must be clear that we cannot simply dismiss this country as a failing state, but that we must of course stabilise, for example, cameroon - it is important that the refugees are received there - that we take care of the vast area of the sahel zone from mali to chad, that we take care of congo, that we stabilise the environment. only then will we be able to stabilise this centre of africa. and if we give up on this country as a failing state, then we're ultimately giving up on africa. none of us want that.
member of the commission. - mr president, we welcome the adoption by your assembly of an emergency european parliament resolution on the situation in the central african republic. the resumption of conflict in the country and the slow political and security deterioration which preceded it have been of great concern to the european union for several months. they adopted several statements by the high representative and vice-president for foreign affairs and security policy. we welcome the signing of a series of agreements between all stakeholders in libreville on 11 january 2013, thanks in particular to the mediation of the economic community of central african states, which has allowed a negotiated solution to this new episode of instability in the central african republic to be found quickly. we share the concerns expressed in your resolution, be it respect for human rights, the humanitarian situation and, in particular, the security of the population, the need to firmly combat impunity, to establish fully and sustainably the rule of law and governance throughout the whole of the central african territory, including with regard to the sound management of natural resources and equitable economic development. all actors in the central african crisis, in accordance with the libreville agreements, must ensure, as quickly as possible, safe and unhindered access for humanitarian organisations to the people in distress. we also call on them to respect human rights and international humanitarian law. those responsible for such violations must be held accountable. it is essential that all stakeholders fully respect the commitments they have made, that the libreville agreements are swiftly implemented and that this process is effectively monitored by the economic community of central african states in coordination with international partners. in this respect, we believe that these agreements are only a first step towards a lasting settlement of the crisis. the longer-term normalisation and stabilisation of the country requires, in order to be effective, that the underlying causes of recurrent conflict in the car be addressed by consensus among all central african stakeholders and adequate responses be made to them. the european union is ready to make its political contribution to such a process and, in particular, to support the ecao in its monitoring of the implementation of the agreements, in coordination with other partners. we therefore call for close cooperation between the various external partners in the region, with a view to providing the best possible support for a lasting solution to the crisis in the central african republic. i would, mr president, still like to answer mrs sargentini's question, namely, can anything happen in the context of the kimberley process, because the central african republic has indeed a treasure trove of diamonds, and in fact very valuable diamonds, perhaps the most valuable in sierra leone? i will certainly bring mrs ashton to your attention. i do not know whether the kimberley process is currently being applied in central africa, or whether diamonds are indeed being certified there. i can only keep natural diamonds if they are certified. you said it was the case. i believe you, be sure, but i'd have to check. i would certainly like to see if an initiative can be taken. i would also like to add that at the moment mrs ashton and i - because this of course also has to do with trade - are looking at how we can set up a system whereby there is better control over the supply chain, not only of diamonds, but of all other minerals. i think that not only the countries where the minerals are mined should take responsibility for this, but also companies in the european union. i think that companies in the european union also have a responsibility to supply minerals, ores, diamonds, wood, and that they will have to deal with that. they will also have to answer more and more. we are working on a different initiative, which also exists in the united states of america in connection with the dodd-frank act. however, i think that a number of things should be looked at in a somewhat different way with a view to efficiency. no, madam sargentini, i have never been to the central african republic. it is indeed a failed state, which has no control over its territory, except over an area in the immediate vicinity of the capital bangui for a number of reasons. in the north are the rebel groups, in the south are the rebel groups, the lra, the lord's resistance army, also regularly crosses the border into the central african republic, because there is indeed a lot of lawlessness and they can easily hide there. so the idea that there is some kind of easy solution, politically, economically, to the problem of human rights and the management of natural resources is still something that we have to very strongly relativeren. this does not mean, however, that we should not take the necessary steps in the hope that these will produce some result in the long run.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 17 january 2013.
written declaration no 0026/2012 submitted by members wałęsa, bütikofer, cronberg, silvestris, zemke on the promotion of the global zero action plan for the progressive and controlled total nuclear disarmament worldwide and written declaration no 0028/2012 submitted by members koumoutsakos, alvaro, angelilli, badia i cutchet, taylor on the introduction of a european day against bullying and violence in schools received a number of signatures exceeding the majority of members of parliament and are therefore published in the minutes of this sitting in accordance with rule 123.
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like your attention for a moment. in the context of these two statements, i would like to draw your attention to the following: we have decided by a plenary resolution to make a rather far-reaching change to the written declarations. in my experience, and i have been a member of this house for some time, such changes are always anchored in the minds of members with a certain delay. because we also get questions about a decision that was passed by a large majority in the plenary, which also means that the tables are no longer in the front, where you used to sign the written declarations. on the way here, a colleague asked me: 'why are the tables not there?' and i replied: 'because you have decided to do so.' we have sent you a full explanation of our future approach to written submissions under rule 123 of the rules of procedure. the services have produced a very comprehensive document which will be circulated to all colleagues.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. (the amended working schedule is therefore adopted.) amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
thank you very much, mrs. alfano.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by georgios papastamkos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the smaller aegean islands (com ((2010) 0767 c7-0003/2011 2010/0370 ((cod)) (a7-0319/2011) and the report by gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the outermost regions of the union (com ((2010) 0498 c7-0284/2010 2010/0256 ((cod)) (a7-0321/2011).
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. mr president, commissioner tajani, you have been very helpful. i should like to begin by thanking mr de backer for his report. the committee adopted this report unanimously. this shows the european parliament's broad support for small and mediumsized enterprises, for smes. they are indeed the backbone of the european economies. they're creating jobs on the ground. they also maintain them when economies are temporarily in crisis. this is where the problem lies: europe's smes are starving for capital. many banks, particularly in southern europe, in countries like greece and spain, are lacking these funds because of the crisis. we need - and this is the proposal of the committee on the internal market - national investment banks, because they play a central role in lending to small and mediumsized enterprises. in germany, there is kfw. it is known for its praiseworthy work, but these institutions do not exist in all member states. we want these banks to be able to operate throughout the internal market under the aegis of the european investment bank, which we will continue to support in its work in this direction.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not going to go into the details of the matter. today is our big day. today we are showing that the european parliament is not a toothless tiger. today we show that we are powerful and that we have a say in how the future is equipped for us, our children and our grandchildren. we are deciding: no more overfishing, no more exploitation of the seas, no more exploitation of the third world! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, mrs damanaki, has delivered the form. we've all worked hard on this. everyone has put forward their ideas and knowledge, and in the end there were 2 500 amendments on the table. i think we can be proud that in long negotiations we have been able to reduce this incredible amount of text, which is covered by so many different, not always compatible ideas, to 100 compromises. we can all be proud of each other for having found solutions in this extremely complex matter that meet the needs of fishermen, nature and the wishes of our consumers. let me briefly introduce our solutions to the most important issues: we have a ban on discards that puts an end to the scandalous waste of resources, a ban on discards that is accompanied by workable rules on quota management, a ban on discards that admittedly requires a lot from fishermen, but also means a chance to have a better image with our consumers, a chance to add value through sustainability certificates, etc. and last but not least, a chance to have higher quotas and more catches for those fishermen who manage to fish more selectively. similarly, msy: yes, we remain committed to the ambitious goal of increasing all stocks to a level above msy. and we also want to see this done as soon as possible. but here too we have a policy of moderation. there is a derogation for the special situation of mixed fisheries. if stocks are raised to above msy, 15 million tonnes more fish will be available after 2020 and 37 000 additional jobs will be created. the tone of the political debate is sometimes harsh, and in our committee on fisheries it is perhaps even harsher than elsewhere. one reason is that some still believed it would be better to prevent this reform and to focus their work on blocking it. after the vote tomorrow, one thing is clear: there will be a joint reform and we will all have to work together on it. i urge all concerned to focus on how we can implement the principles of reform in a meaningful way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let us continue to keep in close contact with those affected. i can tell you from personal experience that it is worth it! we need the cooperation and support of the fishermen, especially if we are really serious about regionalization. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your excellent cooperation over the last year and a half. i hope and i am sure that we will continue this in the coming months. mr. minister, i'm glad you're here for this important debate. you have assured us that under the irish presidency you will bring the reform to fruition. we welcome that, of course. the council will only be able to reform if it accepts that parliament has the right to take part in the decision-making process. this is also true of long-term management plans. i ask you to negotiate for us and with us in this sense.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have a chance this week to see real reform in the fisheries sector and it is very important that we take advantage of it. the oceans are overfished at the moment, the atlantic by 50%, the mediterranean by up to 80%, but there is another way. we have had experience in northern germany that when strict fishing quotas are observed, stocks actually recover. herring was once a very expensive fish that almost no one could afford anymore. now herring, mackerel and cod have all recovered. so it's possible, and it's important, to follow the science and even go beyond that so that fish stocks can recover and so that we can really safeguard this ancient craft. we should do this not only in the eu but also beyond it in fisheries partnership agreements, because fish is an important source of protein worldwide, and i think that if we actually follow mrs rodust with her very good proposals and vote for them tomorrow, we will also be voting for the future and for healthy and vibrant seas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a good thing that the irish presidency is in the hands of the republic of ireland, because ireland is a big fishing nation and i think it is necessary that we provide this policy and our common fisheries reform, which is to apply for the next 10, 15 and 20 years, with pragmatic solutions. there are two main issues that have been identified. i also thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for taking on this herculean task of finding reasonable compromises in the context of 3000 amendments. building and maintaining fish stocks at msy levels - that is, maximising sustainable yields by 2020 - is a lofty goal, and we want to follow the scientific guidelines rigorously. but i simply cannot understand why we should set goals that are not clearly defined. i therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. all the groups in the european parliament agree that a complete landing ban applies to all catches caught in fishing areas here in europe. that must be regulated by law. the practice of throwing things back is really no longer sustainable. mrs damanaki said it: 23% of good food fish and excellent protein carriers are thrown back into the sea. but we also want to minimize by-catch. it is important that fishermen are provided with selective gear. of course, if we are to support them, we also need a valid budget, and that will probably not be available before the middle of this year. the trilogue will also run until 2013. i think it's too early to introduce a complete ban on waste disposal on 1 january 2014. we must think about how this is to work, about a pragmatic solution, and that includes the long-term solutions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for the many words of praise and therefore for the broad support here in this house today. it is a pity that parts of the epp cannot support me now. mrs fraga estévez does not like my report, i heard her say that there are no tfcs. well, there's no majority in this house for that either. the fear is that there will be concentrations and that the rich fishermen will buy up the poor little fishermen. mrs patrão neves suggests that we are not thinking enough of the fishermen. that's not true, man. we all know that without fishermen, there are no fish. the aim of the reform is to ensure that we have healthy and good stocks again. mr kuhn is afraid that there will not be enough money and time for the reversals. we'll start with pilot projects. we will have a workable calendar, and we will of course have funds for selective fishing gear. to all the mediterranean colleagues: the mediterranean regulation is still in force. i'm asking you not to mess this up. there are rules that have nothing to do with the cfp. and to reassure you: on the coasts, there will be further support for aquaculture, for young fish, for coastal and tourist sites. so, to summarize: i thank all the members, assistants, advisers, especially those of the shadow rapporteur, and their teams, the commission and its staff, the council, and thank you very much, mr minister, for the very encouraging words. i thank the fisheries associations from the north and the south, large and small, the environmental associations, the animal welfare groups, the human rights organizations and all the ngos who have worked with us. there was a petition with 150,000 signatures. star chefs have collected over a million signatures. what greater evidence can there be of the way in which citizens are meddling and watching us? i am grateful to all of you and look forward to working with you in the future.
i welcome the president of the french republic, mr françois hollande. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. (applause) i would like to thank let me also welcome the minister for foreign affairs of the french republic, mr laurent fabius. welcome to the ministry. (applause) i would like to thank i also welcome another colleague who works regularly with us, the minister for european affairs, mr bernard cazeneuve. welcome to the ministry. (applause) i would like to thank the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is an extraordinary honour for the european parliament that the president of the french republic, as head of state of the country in which we are sitting, is paying a visit to our institution today. that is his property as head of state. zugleich has der präsident der französischen republik declared himself ready to participate, also as a political guest in unserem hause in a debate with the european parliament. that is the first step, herr präsident. this has not yet been done in this form and is certainly an innovative innovation for the european parliament. (beifall) but first i would like to inform you, herr präsident, in your capacity as head of state of the beautiful country in which we were yesterday in strasbourg, of the value of this visit.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. in general, yes: by their fruits you will recognize them. yes, sometimes speeches are very important, especially when they counter the omissions of other heads of government. your election as president has raised a whole host of hopes in france and in other european union countries as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eurozone's public debt rose from 66% of gdp to 92% last year as a result of the bank bailout, without any improvement in people's daily lives. you yourself have repeatedly criticised the lack of any real regulation of international financial markets. you have spoken against the doctrine of austerity and have thus given hope of a struggle for the renewal of economic and social policy in europe. you yourself have always said that a reorientation of europe is of the utmost importance. you're not alone. many political forces support this approach, and many respected economists have made similar arguments. the question now is: where are we today? are we really getting to the root causes of the crisis? i'm afraid not the debt crisis can only be overcome if the underlying global crises, including the crisis of capital accumulation, are overcome, if we are to combat the global financial crisis and also climate change and, above all, the social crisis. we're a long way from that. international financial markets have long been speculating unrestrainedly in food, raw materials, real estate and land. the european council has decided to allocate 120 billion for growth. what growth, please? where are the investments going, what money is actually being used? will the drastic cuts in public spending and the selling off of public property be stopped? is it again about funding for education, health, social spending, the environment and public services? every one percent of austerity is also a loss of growth. austerity and wage restraint are poison. the council is tightening the budgetary discipline of the member states. but at the same time he is playing the billions-dollar game of deficits for current and future eu budgets. it is a major challenge to the eu's structural and cohesion policies. you said earlier that you were in favour of eu cohesion policy. but then, please, also consistently oppose the macroeconomic conditionality, because it does not fit together. the gap between the centre of the eu and the periphery is growing. you should also support the relief program for the poor. do not compromise! do not make a compromise on friday that does not also focus on this objective and clearly says: the eu will fail to do this if it simply abandons these programmes and abandons this objective. we have heard a lot about youth unemployment. but how is the youth guarantee to be financed? it is about jobs for young people, which are guaranteed by social law. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we need an ambitious european initiative to guarantee the future of young people. one last word on mali. unlike many in this chamber, we believe that military intervention is the wrong way to go. the medium and long-term consequences are not foreseeable. what is certain is that the local civilian population will suffer the most. we as the eu also bear responsibility for the conflict in mali. it is not just our foreign and trade policy that has failed, but above all our faith in the export capacity of our western democratic institutions. i would like to refer to a call from the falea community in mali: no mining against human rights, democracy and the environment! support take the opportunity, especially in the light of the military intervention in mali support the protest of these communities and make sure that the eu-africa strategy is actually brought to life, that it is about justice, that it is about environmental protection, that it is about living conditions for people and nature. this would also be a challenge for france, for the european union. you have us on your side.
president of the french republic. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the quality of this debate, for the frankness of the exchange and for the usefulness, i believe, of our discussion. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. (laughter and applause) i thank you for your trust, but it shows so much distrust, not to say so much distance, towards the governments you support in your respective countries. (applause) because i must inform the house that the social democrats are in a very small minority in the european council. i have received your message, but if you could get it to your heads of government and party leaders by thursday, that would be great. (applause) i am making a commitment to you: throughout the european council i will not stop quoting joseph daul, alain lamassoure and mr verhofstadt if necessary. for the rest, forgive me, i'm afraid your reinforcements are useless... i could be satisfied with this situation but at the same time, it would be irresponsible. i am the head of state. i represent france at the european council table and i am not going there to express a refusal in advance or to hope for failure. my duty is to seek a compromise, because i want europe to be able to present the best possible image, that of 27 heads of state and government who, after hearing the european parliament, after seeing the state of growth, after seeing the doubts in public opinion, take the necessary decisions. so i'm going to go get a deal. i am told that this will be difficult, if not impossible, on the uk side. but why should one country decide for the other 26? i even think that at the last european council it was possible to reach an agreement and that, in order to let the others say that failure was ultimately a victory, we let it go. today we are seeing that it is becoming more and more difficult to reach an agreement. i think we can convince, because many countries - you said, not necessarily for good reasons or good motives - want to keep their cheques and their discounts. the threat of failure can be a factor in lucidity and awareness. i want an agreement because i consider that in a democracy - and it is there, you are its representatives - it is good that you can judge the action of the heads of state and government and therefore what they have found. it is true, i cannot tell you otherwise, that most heads of state and government come to defend the national interest as much as the european interest and sometimes even more the former. but i will not allow it to be said that france, or at least france today, is prepared to sacrifice growth policies simply to defend the common agricultural policy, because that is not true. because the common agricultural policy will see its appropriations reduced compared to what the commission's proposal was. because this will necessarily lead to difficult restructuring in a sector which is essential for our territories. i will not say that we want to challenge growth policies because we were the first, not the only ones, to say that growth should now be the priority. i see that the easy way is to cut where the future is at stake, in research, in connectivity, in infrastructure, in energy. second thought: i will not be here any longer because i want to answer our british friends who, as i see it, have the same eyes as chimène for france, but it is an old story that we have together... i will not go back to general de gaulle, whom you should have supported at the time, but i will simply tell you the facts. david cameron and i agree on things sometimes. i would first like to thank him for his support for the french intervention in mali. he was the first and the first, in fact, to offer planes and equipment. so i will not today be taking the rude attitude of caricaturing a politician and a country. thank you, the united kingdom. i also note that david cameron is in favour of marriage for all, which makes it easier to discuss this subject in france. (applause) i want to answer the questions that have been put to me in relation to major issues for europe. i mean the young people. we are an ageing continent. we are a continent where the birth rate is now low, or at least insufficient. we are questioning, through our policies, through our choices, the place of young people in our societies. i believe that if there is one subject on which we should all come together, including the preparation of this budget, it is the place of young people in europe. (applause) i would like to thank when i say 'the place of the young', i am not only referring to the erasmus programme, academic exchanges and the mobility of researchers, which are essential elements, but also to the precarious young people, the poor young people, the young people who do not have the chance to pursue higher education and who feel that europe does not care about them. we must therefore - we shall see what happens - provide in this budget for an exceptional scheme for young people which will enable us, in all the countries of europe, to go beyond what has been decided in the union, to accompany these guidelines so that no young person is left without a solution, that is to say without training, without qualifications, without integration, without employment. because the risk of breakage is not just civic, it is generational and at some point, there is a youth that gets in the way of the evolution of a society. i would also like to point out that, as regards exchange rate policy, we cannot simply see the appreciation of the euro and then be sad or happy about it, depending on the position of each individual. we need to have an exchange rate policy. it is provided for in the treaties. it is not just up to the european central bank. it is also the role of the governments of the euro area to say what priority we want to give to the currency and that there is a paradox - this is true - to ask countries to make efforts to be competitive and, at the same time, to raise the price of their exports, thus preventing any recovery of the balance of payments or the trade balance. so this exchange rate policy, we will have to get to grips with it at some point. i shall end with the question from strasbourg, since it has been put. i know the diversity of positions here. but i am not simply defending strasbourg because it is in the treaty, i am defending strasbourg, the european capital, because history reminds us of the role of strasbourg. because, yes, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the treaty of friendship between france and germany and strasbourg was part of the reconciliation between our two countries. i am talking about strasbourg because it is the history and the future of europe, because there are cities which symbolically represent what europe is all about. i am not defending strasbourg simply because it is in france, because, after all, there are other seats of europe which are in other countries. i am defending strasbourg because it is europe, and if we do not believe that strasbourg can be the seat of the european parliament, then the european convictions of everyone are called into question, whatever material difficulties you may encounter. in any case, thank you for having me here in strasbourg, at the seat of the european parliament! (applause from the centre and the right)
thank you very much, mr president. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr atkins, you were once the coordinator of the rules committee. you know very well that this was not a point of order. we are considering the proposal for a regulation.
i thank you very much, mr uggias. i'm sorry about that. we cannot combine two reports in one explanation of vote because we have to comply with the rules of procedure. it is the same for other colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very happy to see the report voted in favour. the common agricultural policy is generally very bureaucratic and cold. the common agricultural policy is constantly accused of being incapable of responding to specific, regionally limited conditions. this report shows just the opposite. i am therefore pleased that we have been able to adopt this report with a great deal of support, not only in the plenary today, but also in the committee.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am equally surprised that you have invited me, as the first speaker of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, to speak here today on the european semester. so, mr commissioner, mr president, first of all i would like to thank you very much for the fact that the european commission has included in this european semester the report on the state of the internal market integration, a report which is not only concerned with the budgetary situation in the member states, not only with macroeconomic issues, but also very specifically with the question of what the member states are doing to ensure that this, which is here in the ordinary legislative procedure - and this is precisely the crucial difference with the economic governance procedure which we have so far - is implemented in their member states. i would like to thank the european commission for this. the report i was able to prepare for my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection deals not only with the so-called report on the state of integration of the internal market, that is to say, the question of how the implementation of the internal market rules in the member states is succeeding, but also with the communication from commissioner barnier on the question of governance in the internal market, that is to say, improved control of what the member states have promised to do here in the ordinary legislative procedure. we in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - and i am extremely grateful to all our colleagues for this - have decided more or less unanimously that we must monitor better, control better, and give more support to the member states in order to ensure that the implementation of what we really decide here for the single market is also achieved in the member states in the end. i think this is a remarkable development in a debate on the european semester which has been very controversial between the various groups and groups. i think it is positive that the european parliament has made it clear that we are very closely linked and have more or less identical interests in the field of the internal market and consumer protection. the report we have adopted calls for two things. on the one hand, we want to urge the council, and in particular the competitiveness council, to pay more attention to ensuring that this, which, as i have already said, was decided by the member states together with the european commission and the european parliament in the ordinary ordinary procedure of co-decision at european level, is finally implemented in a uniform manner, and we believe that the council of ministers urgently needs to catch up and devote the necessary attention to this task. and secondly, we want the european commission - commissioner rehn, it is good that you are here - to ensure that what we have decided at european level is also enforced in the member states, regardless of the size of the member states. there are problems here not only because the commission sometimes takes the liberty of suing individual member states in the european court of justice for political reasons, but there are also problems because, in our view - and there was broad agreement with all the colleagues in this house, at least as far as the committee on the internal market was concerned - there is also a lack of legal clarity in primary law which does not sufficiently enable the commission to take appropriate action against the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that there is enormous potential for growth in the internal market and also in the member states if we can achieve a more uniform implementation and application of european law. i am therefore very grateful that the relevance of the european semester to the internal market is so clearly expressed here today.
question for the commissioner: my question has already been answered in part. i was quite surprised that mrs turunen spoke of countries with sound public finances, and i wanted to ask her which countries she was thinking of. it is not germany among the large member states. we are over 80% of the total debt. so my question would have been, what does she mean? does mrs turunen know that we do not have a particularly big problem with unemployment in germany at the moment, but that we have regions where smes are no longer able to fill the skilled jobs? so why should we make large public investments in germany now and put our public finances in even more difficulty? i think this is the wrong way.
blue-card question. – ms mcclarkin, thank you for your intervention. i am of course in general agreement about the importance of the single market, although i think that a single market also needs strong common rules. but i have a very specific question concerning the vote on thursday. are you aware that, in order to get the respective items voted through, you will have to support a resolution which calls in paragraphs 4, 37 and 38 for an increase in the eu budget? so, for your group, there is a certain price to pay to support this sort of majority. unfortunately, the majority was very narrow in the committee on economic and monetary affairs yesterday. are you aware of that?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to directly contradict my predecessor: he considered the euro to be the main problem. this is not true: the euro is stable internally and externally, but it is of course bringing the pressure for more common ground in the european union, and here the measures agreed by all the states have obviously failed. this was the stability and growth pact, this was the fact that you have to tackle reforms in certain areas and improve your competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not those who succeed who must be punished, but those who have not adhered to the things agreed upon must make the necessary reforms. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to do so. this competitiveness is almost 40% lower in greece than in turkey in tourism, for example, or 20-30% lower in italy and spain than in central and northern europe. these things must be dealt with under the national responsibility of the member states. there is no european solution. we have not enough money, we have not enough skills. if europe is no longer the implementation of existing law, then we are in trouble, and therefore there is no point in appealing to the others. i am grateful that we have adopted a sensible overall line by a majority in the ferreira report, and i am sure that this will also find the necessary support in the plenary. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to answer in two ways, madam podimata: firstly, we have known for a long time that the political system in greece is in dire need of reform and that the politicians have not had the strength to tackle the necessary reforms. secondly, i would like to accept and expressly commend the fact that the reform efforts are finally taking effect, but only under the most massive pressure. thirdly, i think it is irresponsible that the rich greeks have shown no solidarity with their country, but have taken their money abroad and now expect the other europeans to take over. you can work with the current government to stop this. and if greece has not introduced the tax on shipowners until december, then i have no need to take any criticism!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we expressly welcome the recommendations made by the commission to the member states for the 2013 economic policy guidelines. we believe that budgetary consolidation must continue, and that it is already bearing its first fruits. it is not easy, of course, but lajos bokros has pointed out consolidated public budgets are the prerequisite for growth in the medium term. it is an economic law, and the honourable member cannot speak of differences of opinion, that is simply the way it is. we need further structural reforms in the real economy, in particular the flexibility of labour markets, we need the completion of the internal market - that has been mentioned here - we need the maintenance and expansion of a strong industrial base. i think all of this is crucial. we have been very clear on this: financing growth at a premium. we've just been talking about how if you just put the word "growth" in your mouth enough times, it kind of manifests itself, magically. no, there are two very different conceptions of growth here: growth based on competitiveness, sustainability, success in the markets, or growth as a bonfire, growth produced by new public debt, growth that is artificially generated and will collapse like a bonfire, and then we have again high public debt and high unemployment. i would also like to say a word to mrs turunen, who has just said that healthy countries should strengthen their public finances. then she listed finland, sweden, the netherlands, denmark and germany. i noticed that in all these healthy countries, we have strong liberal parties. in the less healthy countries, such as portugal, spain, italy and greece, there are no liberal parties. i think that says something about the success of liberal policies for the economies of our countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. who's going to read it, the 2013 annual growth report? the unemployed, who, the longer they are out of work, the less hope they have? or young people without a school education? or those who, despite good education, are unemployed? the ambitious report by my distinguished spanish colleague, verónica lope fontagné, shows the ways in which the social partners, associations and public bodies can only achieve this by acting together with great vigour. our contribution to the european semester is still insufficient. it is not because we as a parliament have no say in the matter, but because we as representatives of the people have only been marginally involved. where is the democratic legitimacy? the unemployment figure of 25 million - 2 million more than the previous year - leaves no room for religious wars. the contrast between fiscal consolidation and growth policy is artificial. the fiscal compact, enshrined in our national constitutions, is indispensable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the objectives must not be in conflict. they must complement each other. promoting growth yes. reforms are being implemented. but also prevent exclusion and poverty, create higher quality jobs and support, above all, small and mediumsized enterprises as the main source of training and jobs. as rapporteur for the european qualifications framework, i expressly welcome the review system recommended by the european commission until 2015. this is another reason why the european qualifications passport can become a hugely important document for the added value of our society.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank all the members for a very serious and substantive debate today. as we look back at 2012, it was a year of crisis, a year of sacrifice, but it was also a year of progress. as we look forward in 2013 we need to beat the crisis and take that progress to a new level. that means seeing beyond the rebalancing and reform of the eurozone, and that is exactly what the annual growth survey is about. the ags means focusing primarily on the competitiveness of our economy, which is a large and open economy of entrepreneurs, well-trained employees and workers, which relies on innovation and skills, and embraces the opportunities offered by expanding world trade. when we speak about competitiveness we do not need to reinvent the wheel. we need to implement as much as possible and exploit the opportunities offered by the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy on industrial policy, on the digital agenda, on resource efficiency and on innovation. the strategy also refers to employment, on which we have announced our ambitious agenda for more employment in the eu and balanced economic reforms. the ags also means finding new ways to boost productive investment and to provide access to finance so that our smes and our industries as a whole can create prosperity and create jobs. the single market on which the discussion focused today is our main growth project. but the single market can only be a main growth project if it comes with more entrepreneurship and also with more demand. a market without demand is not a functioning market, and that is why we also have to focus our policies on taking care of demand in our single market. the ags also means intensifying the fight against youth unemployment, and i am glad so many members of the house spoke about this. we cannot allow ourselves to waste a generation, and the commission has been leading the campaign against this in the last three years. we devoted one flagship initiative of europe 2020 to the question of youth. in 2011 we announced the youth opportunities initiative, which demonstrated the added value of the european financial instruments. we announced the youth employment package last december, putting forward the need for implementing youth guarantees in all member states. this month of february can be a very critical one because the council of employment ministers is expected to recommend approving the youth guarantee. i also believe that, when discussing the mff, the european council must pay due attention to youth unemployment and conclude that this should be a priority. investment in human capital is absolutely key, and this is the source of success in the best performing countries of the european union where youth unemployment has been relatively low. it is not the weakening of social legislation, as some members of the house, like mr clark or mr bloom, assume. countries with the lowest youth unemployment rates appreciate and fully comply with social legislation in the eu. these are austria, germany, finland, the netherlands, and they also have dual training systems. in the case of austria and finland they already have functioning youth guarantees and they also have strong social dialogue. this is linked to the concept which ms morvai is asking about, because in my introduction i spoke about internal flexibilities. we highlighted internal flexibilities in the employment package of last year and the ags. the best example is of some countries, like germany, applying strong social dialogue between employers and employees and responding in a flexible way to the crisis and the temporary shrinking of demand in the markets, and thereby preventing unnecessary lay-offs and the weakening of working conditions. we believe these are the best practices, and they should also be adopted by other countries. the ags also means staying the course in fiscal consolidation, because there can be no sustainable growth without sustainable public finances. but the commission has always emphasised smart fiscal consolidation which, for example, allows for shifting taxation away from labour, particularly in the low-wage categories. during a crisis this can also help reduce the impact of the recession on employment. i would like to underline that we have to be very careful with social expenditure at a time of fiscal consolidation, and this is particularly connected to what ms bauer said. first of all we have to be careful with the data, because the data you referred to do not include health expenditure. that is why it is slightly misleading in terms of international comparison. secondly, much of what is often called social expenditure is actually social investment and helps prevent much higher costs at a later stage. we will deal with these questions in a very detailed manner in the forthcoming social investment package, which the commission is expected to adopt later this month. but the ags also means continuing the rebuilding of our economic and monetary union, and this is no less important than discussing competiveness or the fight against youth unemployment. the annual growth survey and the european semester in its entirety are essential parts of this reinforced emu. so it is also a matter of the democratic legitimacy of our policies, which needs to be seriously addressed in the context of rebuilding the emu. to this end, debates such as this one are very much needed and are also very helpful; they help to underline that this new emu has to have a social dimension. the ideas expressed by the european parliament report, of strengthening multinational surveillance and monitoring mechanisms, or of making more advanced use of social indicators in the european semester, deserve consideration. honourable members, in recent years we have had to fight for stability in the eu. sometimes this has also been a fight for the survival of the monetary union, the eurozone. it should be understood that there is a need for more efforts; we need to do more for a sustainable recovery. this means, for example, doing more for investment, doing more to implement plans for the banking union and particularly banking regulation, because these issues have been the root causes of the current turmoil. but we also need to do more for a robust mff, one that matches the ambition of the eu for growth and prosperity. the patient may be out of intensive care now, but it will take some time before she can be given a clean bill of health. that is the truth and that is why any lapse into complacency would be unforgiveable at this time. we need to stay on the path of reform. our member states probably need to support each other more strongly than they have done in the past in order to revitalise the european economy and the european society, because the two have to go together.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to echo commissioner andor’s words in thanking all of the members for a very lively, at times a very interesting and a very fruitful debate and one that helps us as the presidency in our approach to the european semester process. as i said in my introductory remarks, this is a process that is evolving, i hope improving each year and at each stage. that certainly is our aspiration: to build on the work of the last two semesters to improve, to take on board and take into account the feedback from member states, from national parliaments, from governments and from the european parliament. that, i think, is an important aspect of our participation here this evening. i would like to thank once more the three rapporteurs, ms ferreira, mr schwab and ms lope fontagné. their work is an important contribution to this process as well. a number of members, ms ferreira, mr sánchez presedo and many more, talked about the economic crisis and the backdrop to this debate. i note that a number of members were critical of suggestions that the crisis is behind us or that we have moved beyond the crisis. the commissioner’s metaphor of the patient in intensive care is accurate. i think that it would be misguided to say that the crisis is behind us. but we have taken very important steps and there is a lot of work to be done. there are a lot of lessons to be learned. many of the mistakes that have been made in the past, which members have alluded to, cannot be made again. that is the value of the european semester process. that is why we required the semester process to ensure that we avoid many of the mistakes that were made. the topic that is of most concern to you as members of parliament, to me as a representative both of the irish government and of the council, is the issue of unemployment: the critical task that we face in trying to tackle huge levels of youth unemployment. as the commissioner has outlined, there are a range of measures being undertaken which are being discussed here in parliament and which are being taken through the negotiation process in council. i refer here to the youth guarantee, on which we hope to achieve agreement in the council by the end of february. that is very important, as is putting in place an mff which is well-resourced and well-funded. using cohesion funds, structural and social funds and all of the tools that are available to us to tackle youth unemployment is also very important. i think it is also important to say that there is no silver-bullet solution. we have to work very hard at this and it does require a comprehensive approach, an approach that involves the structural reforms – which many members have referred to – and that in turn requires a comprehensive review and reassessment of the single market as we make a joint effort to deepen the single market and to take forward the nine outstanding elements of single market act i and as we progress towards single market act ii. that is the major recommendation that we have to take from mr schwab’s report. that is something that has the greatest potential to tackle the general unemployment problem, but particularly the youth unemployment problem in europe at this point in time. if we can make genuine progress on the single market agenda and incorporate that into the european semester process we will be taking a very important step forward in tackling the challenge of youth unemployment. i note the differing views here in the chamber in respect of the approach to fiscal consolidation which we have seen in recent years; mr de backer and a number of other speakers also alluded to that. mr zalba summed it up very neatly when he said that austerity and growth are two sides of the same coin. that is the message and the lesson that we have learned in europe in the last few years: that we cannot spend beyond our means, that we must get public spending under control, reduce deficits, and try to tackle the enormous debt overhang, and that we have to take this approach in order to achieve growth and to lay the foundations for sustainable growth. so it is a two-sided process, but it is a complementary process. i think that is an extremely important aspect of the semester process as we take it forward, and particularly as we move to the phase where we look at country-specific recommendations and at the different approaches that individual member states have to take. connected to that is the question of macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness. most people in the chamber would accept that one of the contributing factors to the depth of the crisis and to the high levels of unemployment that we have seen in europe in recent years is the fact that, by and large, many eu member states lost competitiveness, lost business and lost industry, not only to other countries but to other regions of the world. this is the big challenge facing us, and structural reforms are absolutely essential to restoring competitiveness. i know a lot about this because my country has gone about this the hard way and we have seen a 20-point improvement in competitiveness in our country in the last few years. finally – and most importantly – it is absolutely vital and fundamental that this entire process is underpinned by democratic legitimacy, by accountability and by oversight. that is where the crucial role of the european parliament and of national parliaments comes into play. a number of you have raised this issue. i want to reiterate that we, as the presidency, very much welcome the debate that took place in brussels last week between national parliaments and the european parliament. this parliament assumed an important leadership role in it, a role that i hope we will see replicated as this process continues. moving into the phase where we will see country-specific recommendations for individual member states, it is absolutely essential that national parliaments take some ownership of this process, that they buy into this process and that it is not simply one that is seen to be removed or remote, but rather one that features very prominently in debate and dialogue at a national level. in conclusion, i would like to thank each and every member for their contribution and their interesting viewpoints. i undertake to take those views back to my colleagues in council. i reiterate that this is a fluid process, it is an evolving process and one that i hope is improving at all stages. as we move forward we look forward to working closely with the commission, with parliament, with all of the institutions and national parliaments. i look forward to continuing engagement with this house as we take that process forward.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! first of all, i would like to thank you very much for having been here for so long and for having followed the whole debate in all its facets. i hope that, in answer to the question recently posed by an independent scholar, namely what was ultimately changed in european politics by the establishment of the european semester, at the end of this process we will come up with examples that were actually changed or changed because we had this process of dialogue, because as a purely dialogue process it would probably take too much time. i can say, on the subject of internal market governance, on the area of what concerns the internal market in the context of the european commission's report on internal market integration, that i believe that the debate has shown that this parliament is in the position - and i am extremely grateful for what the president of the council, lucinda creighton, has said - to be very unanimous in the view that we need better control of the rules in the implementation in the member states and, on the other hand, in the council, especially in the competitiveness council, also need more attention to this issue, because in the end - i would like to stress this again - after a regular legislative procedure in the european parliament and in the council of ministers, the member state is obliged to implement what has been discussed at european level. otherwise the growth potential of the internal market, which we urgently need in a time of increasing austerity - if you will, i doubt you can say so, but if you will - may be lost. that's why i think we need more honesty, too. it has been said before that we should include more social elements in the governance of the internal market, in the control of what has been decided here, with a view to effective implementation. i think that is wrong because social elements play a big role in legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we can sum up what we have to say: in the medium term, to enforce the governance of the internal market, which was put in place by mario monti, the italian prime minister, we urgently need to improve primary legislation so that the european commission can fulfil its control tasks, and we need to pay more attention to effective implementation in parliament and in the council. (applause from the centre)
in writing. in times of high unemployment and poverty, investment must be used wisely. the employment committee report contains important elements to better respond to country-specific interests. in some countries, drastic austerity measures are leading citizens to ruin. economic reforms must include investment in training, education and lifelong learning. the idea of the youth guarantee plays an important role here. the european funds play an important role in this context. competitiveness cannot be achieved at the expense of the european social model.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! i am glad that all three of you are here and that we have the opportunity to debate this important subject at such a prominent time. i sometimes feel that this topic is sometimes lost in the whole debate about economically important and big challenges, because we're seeing a massive loss of biodiversity around the world. there is only one way to counteract this trend, and that is to make decisions internationally and protect species. there is no question that this is necessary. we have dealt with this issue in the environment committee of parliament and have tabled a resolution there. this is about cites, the 16th conference of the parties to the convention, which is taking place in bangkok, thailand, from 3 to 14 march this year. we are very concerned because many species are threatened. it's hammerhead sharks, to be exact, but illegal elephant hunting has also skyrocketed. we, as a parliament, would like the 27 member states of the european union to speak with one voice here at cop16 and to make a strong statement there, to put an end to this trend towards the loss of biodiversity and the trade in a wide range of endangered plant and animal species - there are 33 000 of them covered by this agreement. in our resolution we have a number of concerns, namely: we want the polar bears, which are still listed in annex ii, to be transferred to annex i to this convention, and so too the bluefin tuna. we have dealt with this many times in parliament. the bluefin tuna is truly endangered and needs special protection. therefore, it must also be included in annex i and must not continue to be included in annex ii. in all, 900 species are included. it is perfectly clear that in difficult economic times trade nevertheless continues. but we have the request from the environment committee that, in this particular case, the public interest and biodiversity take precedence over economic interests. that is the general request i would like to make again today, that you, as the council and as the commission, represent this line in bangkok, as we have done in the resolution, that something good will really come of it and the species in question - i have mentioned only a few, everything else would break the framework - will be protected by the european union - i know that it is not an easy undertaking among 177 contracting parties and not a wishful thinking concert - that we come here with determination and really implement these points in this framework agreement. we have no other option but to apply pressure at international level. since 1975 we have cites, and with cites a lot of useful things have been started. but cites must be adapted to the challenges and circumstances we are facing. i look forward to the debate and also to the commission's and the council's reply. it's nice of you to give us the opportunity here today.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you all for the interest which you expressed through your questions and the concerns which were raised in your contributions to this debate. i can, of course, guarantee you that, as always, your views are taken very seriously into account when we are also considering our positions for the cop. one of the problems which you listed is connected with wildlife trafficking and organised crime, and one of the initiatives was mentioned. i do not know that initiative from the us in detail, but i can promise that i will look at this. of course the fight against illegal trafficking and crime is at the top of our list of priorities and will absolutely continue to be so in the future. i have also clearly mentioned that one of the priorities for the next cop is the enforcement and implementation of the existing part. this means that we need to look in a holistic way at everything which is connected to the whole chain of origin, transit and destination countries. this should be among the activities to which our attention should be given. when we talk about – as many of you mentioned – whether animals should be listed in appendix 1 or appendix 2, we of course have to be aware that there are certain principles which have to be followed. listing should be science-based. it should be done in such a way as to have the local population on board. it should be done in a way that convincingly shows that the cites trade instrument is efficient and relevant in contributing to the solutions which we see as problems. without going into detail about all the animals which you mentioned, i will try to explain to you the polar bears’ situation, which many of you mentioned. firstly, i have to say that they are currently included in appendix 2 to the cites convention, which clearly says that international trade can take place only if it is deemed sustainable. so that request is already there in appendix 2. based on scientific and objective factors, we are not convinced that all the factors are actually in place to meet the criteria – whether biological criteria or trade criteria – for a listing in appendix 1. this was basically also the situation three years ago, when that was the position of the european union. there is no guarantee that an international trade ban will be beneficial to the conservation of polar bears. the current harvest is done by inuit populations and only a share of this harvest is directed towards international trade, which is allowed even under a ban. finally, as many of you mentioned, a major threat to the polar bear is the redirection of sea ice as a consequence of climate change. international trade is absolutely not the main threat to the polar bear, so in a way, dealing with that and not climate change as the primary cause is not the answer. of course we are concerned about what is happening to the polar bear and we share this position with the presidency. that is why we are also currently working in the council to find an alternative solution to target the real problems identified to date – unsustainable harvest quotas for some sub-populations of polar bears and lack of assurance that trade will not further increase in the future – while at the same time also requesting that the cites bodies carry out the assessment on the basis of scientific evaluations. in this way, both the protection and the species would be reinforced by the role of cites or science-based instruments. we are currently working on that solution, which would in a way be a parallel solution to something which is being proposed by the united states. finally, i would like to say that i am encouraged that, together with the developments which i also hear in the council, if we speak with one voice, as in each convention, we will be strong. this is certainly a precondition if europe is to play the role it should play in international fora.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions during the debate. i have found it very interesting and i appreciate the very strong interventions that have been made on a range of issues. i am particularly pleased with the support of members for many of the eu proposals, particularly relating to transparency of voting, the issue of conflicts of interest, and also some of you alluded to the listing of endangered shark species. the presidency has taken note of the strong opposition of the european parliament to the use of secret ballots as a general practice within cites, and we welcome the support given by the european parliament to that proposal. i have very clearly understood a strong desire for coherence from the eu side at the conference, for the eu to speak with one voice, and that is certainly our intention. as in previous cites cops a number of outreach activities at different levels are envisaged to try to explain further the eu proposals and also to promote and highlight wider eu concerns. we expect to have a number of useful exchanges both ahead of and during the conference, too. the presidency will be considering, together with the commission and the member states, the best way of organising these activities in order to ensure a maximum impact and, ultimately, the success of our proposals. a number of members have raised some very important issues. some have already been addressed by commissioner potočnik. firstly, on the question of polar bears: i think the point was made very well by ms gutiérrez-cortines about the need to have support and buy-in from indigenous communities to support plans for sustainability, and the commissioner has also alluded to that. that certainly is a major concern of the eu. i think it is fair to say that there are differences of opinion in the international community and, indeed, amongst ngos on the approach which would be best for the protection of polar bears. the battle against climate change is obviously one of the key priorities for the european union and for member states, so the council is aware of the links between climate change and the loss of habitat, and that is something that the council will of course be examining when considering the position to be adopted in respect of the proposal, and the most effective way to ensure the preservation and survival of polar bears in the arctic while respecting the cites requirements. i think we certainly will have a clear and coherent position on that subject. another issue which was raised was the question of bluefin tuna. i think you are aware that there are no proposals on the agenda for this species at the cop. it was included at the last cop in a proposal for inclusion in appendix 1, but that was defeated on this point, so there are no proposals on this occasion. finally, a point which was raised by some members was the issue of consulting with asian states in the context of concerns over both elephants and rhino, elephant ivory and rhino horn, which of course in many cases are being illegally sold to asian countries – amongst others, i should say. the eu has been in discussions with a number of asian countries, particularly china and vietnam, in order to try to address some of the misconceptions and some of the misinformation, and to try to find some viable solutions, so that engagement is ongoing. in summary i would like to thank members for their very helpful contributions. i will certainly feed them back to the council. i think a lot of what has been raised has been very valuable and a lot of these issues are obviously of deep public concern as well, and i know that many of them will be addressed at the cop. thank you again for the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by saying that this parliament's budget has been facing economic and financial difficulties for the past three years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the margins have narrowed somewhat and the effort must be increased. there are some anti-european and populist people who are constantly trying to discredit us and to portray the european parliament as the most expensive parliament in the world. i am very grateful that in the joint working group we have now been able to see, in comparing parliaments, that the european parliament, although it costs something, is much less expensive than the national parliaments, and this is in part due to the fact that it costs two to three times as much, even though we have 23 working languages and we have to work in three locations and distribute our work there. it is not always easier to do, but it is what it is, and it is astonishing that some of the rapporteurs should perhaps have a look at these comparative documents. i am glad that the committee on budgets has suggested these comparative studies and i am grateful that they have been carried out so consistently. they also give us ideas for the future, where and how we can improve. as rapporteur for the budget of the european parliament and the other specific programmes, including the european external action service, which of course also includes the european court of auditors, the court of justice, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, but also the ombudsman, i know and am fully aware that we must again make this budget very careful and balanced, because the economic and financial situation in our member states and especially for many people in the european union remains extremely difficult. it means it's no place for big leaps. but i also know that we have more and more to do and we have already made some savings. i am referring, for example, to the reduction in expenditure on buildings, to the fact that we have now introduced improved building planning, careful comparative calculations and also cost control, to the reduction in travel budgets, to the optimisation of translation and interpretation, to the optimisation of safety and also to the increase in efficiency in the driver's area. we have decided to take advantage of savings wherever possible and to continue to work consistently on our efficiency and to reduce expenditure wherever possible. it is also useful to strengthen cooperation with the other institutions where we can achieve synergy effects and thus identify saving potential. we should also be aware, however, that this parliament should not be restricted in its working possibilities and that some further development is also necessary for the quality of work that citizens expect from us. it is therefore urgent that we should look more closely at the impact assessment of legislation, the evaluation of the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of regulations in a neutral way, the achievement of stated objectives, and i look forward to the fact that the bureau and the general secretariat will make proposals to this parliament. i also recognize that, at this stage of preparation of a multiannual financial framework, it would be very helpful for colleagues to have improved conditions for assessing their substantive questions through scientific input. these are the questions we will all be discussing, and saving and being efficient at the same time is one of the most important questions for the 2014 budget.
question for the commissioner: i have a certain sympathy for the amendments you have tabled for tomorrow. but are you aware that the figures, and above all the article you quoted today, have now been shown to be wrong, that the figures are not correct?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard a lot and there have been some cuts. we saved a lot of money last year, last budget. only this house can't save itself for death either. the european parliament's inability to act would affect european citizens first and foremost. the german bundestag costs eur 7.80 for comparison in the year. the cost of the european parliament is eur 3. that's 25 cents a month per eu citizen, less than a cent a day. i see no reason why we populists should give in here. and basically, even if we did, they're the mind that always denies. even if we were to reduce ourselves to zero, it would mean that the gift is still too expensive! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i expect more confidence. i expect us to protect this house and its staff from unwarranted criticism. and i expect that we will not make this parliament smaller than it is. the european parliament is not a mickey mouse parliament. we should not be fooled into thinking that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would simply like to remind you once again that the eu budget is fundamentally different from the budgets of the national states: the eu budget is not in debt. he is balanced. it has to be balanced, and it is balanced. the situation of the member states depends in part on the crisis. the fact that the member states are so heavily indebted is at least partly a consequence of the crisis and partly a consequence of the austerity policy adopted by the council. the member states are therefore faced with the consequences of their own policies. but the eu cannot be blamed for this. but if this policy is continued and extended at eu level, it would only exacerbate the austerity policy, which is already suffering massively in many member states, because, as many previous speakers have rightly said, the eu budget is an investment budget. so there is no point in cutting back.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr secretary-general, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, the proposal to reduce the amount by one per cent each year. i'm always happy to hear suggestions, but we need to be clear: in fiscal year 2014, we will have significantly more expenses that we are legally bound to by the transition in the legislature. we must and will comply with legal obligations, and we must finance them. secondly, the report in the german newspapers. i deeply regret that it is a newspaper report from germany which unfortunately has given incorrect information because the figures and data mentioned there are unfortunately not correct in comparison and have therefore had to be corrected today or have already been partially corrected. i would also point out that it is the european parliament which, in the form of the legal affairs committee, has already proposed a transition towards a 40-hour week on the commission's proposal, a transition towards the retirement age of 65, savings for holidays and the like. the council is not currently negotiating with us on the amendment of the staff regulations, which is why we cannot make the arrangements yet. i would point out that the majority of member states have not reached either a 40-hour week or a retirement age of 65. i would suggest that, if there are any suggestions in this area, they should be implemented at national level if they are requested at european level, and that reason should be used here too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should also treat them with care and order, just as we ourselves would like to be treated with care and order. the abolition of the european external action service, which is constantly being called for, is simply not possible, even if some people here want it to be. it is enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and all the obligations we have under the treaty of lisbon cannot be abolished by anyone. i am simply asking for a very objective discussion. i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs and all those who are really willing to discuss things with me in a calm and objective manner. i want to represent the european parliament properly as rapporteur and i want us to make good proposals on efficiency, but also to demand quality in our work, because quality in our work will be demanded of us.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. there are three things that we have focused on in particular. one, we believe that social responsibility is not arbitrary. there are a whole range of standards that can be used. we strongly believe that the 2011 oecd guidelines are the standard supported by employers and trade unions, which include a dispute settlement mechanism. in this sense, this should be the guiding principle of corporate social responsibility, because we really have a system here that is verifiable and accepted by all. the second is, of course, transparency. it cannot be that companies have to present only their business figures, as they did abroad where they made a profit or a loss. i think companies also need to be transparent with the public about how they have acted in a socially responsible way in other countries on the planet. the report also provides for the introduction of a reporting obligation in the annual accounts. and thirdly, we must also make greater demands and agree on corporate social responsibility in trade agreements, so that european companies in other countries of the world behave sensibly. i do not want european companies to buy wool produced by child labour in uzbekistan, have it processed in bangladesh and then market it here. it has to be done under different conditions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the two reports before us, which we will be voting on tomorrow, can either be a good signal to companies that are already active and engaged in csr, or they can be the beginning of the end. because what's always clear in this whole discussion is that there's a lot of mixing. of course, it is not at all acceptable that laws are broken. if a company does not comply with environmental standards, does not comply with working conditions, then this is not acceptable and not tolerable. in countries where such a system does not yet exist, the national government is called upon to enact such laws. but i think it is a complete mistake for us in the european parliament to stand here and say: we need a legislative proposal from the european union. it is not possible that something which is voluntary, and that is what we are talking about in csr, can be prescribed. this can't be happening! the introduction of this differentiation is therefore an essential part of this discussion. that is why we liberals are quite clear that it is not useful to legislate here with obligations or laws to even inhibit innovation. because that 's the whole point . the companies that are already active, that are setting good examples here, that have actually integrated csr into their strategy, they also have a market advantage. they can convince their customers of that, too. but if we now make everything the same, prescribe everything, even take the flexibility of companies - because what is the real social commitment? we can also ask this question here: if we take away the competitive advantage from these companies, we may achieve the opposite. because these companies are being punished. they will no longer be highlighted, but everything will become a uniform dough and very level. in this respect, we in the liberal group are very much in favour of companies being socially responsible, not breaking the law, but on top of that, voluntarily.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. corporate social responsibility has many facets. many smes have been implementing csr for years, sponsoring local football clubs, providing company kindergartens, promoting school partnerships in the region, setting up sports centres for employees, and many large companies, not all, are building environmentally friendly vehicles, transporting free medicines to developing countries, promoting social engagement in the arts and music. in this way they create positive incentives for others to become socially engaged in the same way. companies of all sizes are watching today and tomorrow as we vote and decide whether we want to continue the voluntary commitment or a commitment. the compromise does not say whether it is voluntary or whether it should be forced in future. the eu is a major player in the development of the eu's csr policy. i remember the debate in the january plenary on the responsibility for the devastating fires in textile factories which cost lives. wherever there is a misconduct and promises are ignored, it must be made public and above all prosecuted. on the other hand, companies that are committed to csr are also rightly trusted by their customers and accepted by society. this charitable work must not be punished. i think that the principle of voluntariness must remain part of the definition of csr, and i hope that commissioner barnier will agree with me in march.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. in a democratic society, this question cannot be answered by companies and associations of companies alone, but must also be answered by society as a whole. otherwise, we run the risk of csr being misused for competitive purposes only. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states, and has also been able to provide the necessary information to the member states. the eu is there, and we have a duty to ensure fair competition. this is only possible if everyone follows the same rules, if we have real comparability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. corporate social responsibility the term may be new german, the idea is not: in my home country of bavaria, in particular, corporate social responsibility is a tradition and a home. europe cannot and must not dictate to us. it's what the customers want that counts. politics can only support all this, not prescribe it. i am against any attempt to try to regulate everything and everyone from brussels again, instead of learning from the best examples. not with us, not with csu! the reporting requirements for smes, for example, undermine the voluntary nature of the measures. it would be the key to the successful development of social entrepreneurship in recent years. the joint approach of the european commission and the left here in the european parliament to introduce mandatory csr measures through the back door is equally wrong. we in bavaria do not demand csr we promote it! nearly 800 companies are active in the csr platform "white and blue economy". smes benefited from the 'social responsibility in smes' programme. almost 40 million euro of eu funding is being used nationwide. responsibility is a tradition here. we know that csr pays off! social responsibility is an important factor in competition and location. without bureaucracy or regulations!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ouzký, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment for the work they have done. the real challenge of this proposal is to find the right balance between three axes: environmental performance, cost and time for industry and international competitiveness. i realize that these various concerns have led to difficult discussions in the committees of this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the proposal has three main objectives: first, it aims to ensure a fully functioning single market. secondly, it provides for a high level of environmental protection for the benefit of our fellow citizens. thirdly, it promotes the competitiveness of economic operators. we cannot neglect any of these interdependent objectives, especially at a time of economic difficulty for our union. first of all, we must remember the context of the proposal: more than 20% of the union population is exposed to sound levels considered unacceptable by scientists and health experts. the 2008 report of the world health organization reiterated that excessive noise exposure is a source of stress, cardiovascular disease and insomnia. combating road noise requires an integrated approach. the road infrastructure, the insulation of housing, traffic rules, police checks, driver training and vehicle characteristics must be addressed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise levels in the road transport sector are not reduced. the noise emission limits were last changed in 1995 but it was then found that, despite the lowering of the limit values, ambient noise did not decrease to the extent hoped for. one reason was the testing method which, in an urban environment, is poorly representative of the real level of vehicle emissions. the commission has therefore proposed the adoption of a new, more representative test method. this is an internationally recognised method developed by the un working group on vehicle noise, which is composed of experts from the commission and the member states. this method has been validated for three years during vehicle type approval testing. the proposal provides for a two-stage reduction in the noise limit values. the first phase two years after adoption will be used to adapt the current limits to the new test method. a more demanding second phase, requiring more substantial modifications to vehicles, will apply 5-7 years after the adoption of the legislative act. overall, it is proposed to reduce the noise level by 4 decibels for light vehicles and by 3 for heavy vehicles. the proposal under consideration today, if approved, would reduce by 25% the number of people seriously disturbed by the noise of motor vehicles and, according to the impact assessment, the benefit to society is 20 times greater than the cost to industry. i thank the envi committee once again and hope that parliament will support this proposal.
the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the application of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the measures referred to in article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. - mr president, i have to say something. i am speaking at this late hour today on behalf of my colleague, mrs anja weisgerber, who is the author of the opinion on this subject in the committee on consumer protection. the regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is an important dossier for health and consumer protection in order to reduce noise pollution. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of electricity supplied by private households. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. that's why we need a warning system called avas. the consumer protection committee has put forward a regulation which clearly describes the sound the warning system should make. the manufacturer shall then design the warning system sound to be easily identifiable as a vehicle behaviour and similar to a conventional engine vehicle. the intention behind this regulation is that the sound is uniformly recognisable as a warning signal. the committee on consumer protection has also long been committed to clear and transparent information for consumers. we are therefore pleased that our proposal to introduce a label to inform consumers in future about the noise level of a vehicle when making a purchase decision has been accepted.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we've been discussing this bill for a year now. the reason why this is taking so long is - and i am surprised that none of my predecessors have addressed this - a bad commission proposal. the commission has presented a legislative text which does not meet the commission's own standards of quality for legislation. the heart of the regulation is annex 3 with outdated vehicle categories based on the 1980s, and parliament has now been given the task of fixing that annex, and that is, to put it mildly, an impossibility. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information on the road transport sector. the debate in parliament that followed was not always logical. it is absurd to require car manufacturers to set noise limits for cars that correspond to the level of electric vehicles, and elsewhere the same members are demanding minimum noise levels for electric vehicles because they are too quiet. i have read in the s&d group's documents that quiet can be too quiet. yes, welcome to the knowledge! it is not a matter of whether 66 decibels are emitted by a combustion engine vehicle or by an electric motor vehicle. i had the impression that the ideology in the debate had been so far-reaching that this distinction was made. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. sports cars account for less than 1% of the fleet. if they disappear from the market tomorrow, you won't even be able to measure it in traffic noise. that is not what we should and must focus on. unfortunately, we have not been able to reach a compromise on the crucial part of this regulation. i hope very much that we will reach a responsible decision tomorrow. i am thinking of amendment no 62, which is actually a compromise between all the ideas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the world health organization of the united nations has studied the effects of noise emissions on human health. the result is that noise is the second worst for the health and well-being of those affected, after air pollution. almost 210 million people in the eu are exposed to traffic noise exceeding 55 decibels, many of them at night. noise causes hearing problems and sleep disturbances, but it also causes stress, heart disease, and it leads to learning problems in children. the exhausting power of noise emissions cannot be underestimated. but even a small reduction in noise can have a big impact. as the noise limits for motor vehicles have remained unchanged since 1992, i am glad that the commission has finally managed to come forward with a proposal for a regulation. we should maintain the result in the environment committee with the improved limit values. the limits are designed in such a way that some vehicles already comply with them today. however, the limit values will not come into force for another seven years, which is enough time for all manufacturers to adapt their vehicles, especially since the technology for this already exists today. the legislative process so far has shown that the new regulation suffers massively from the influence of lobbyists. the report of the automobile association downplays the benefits of noise reduction. the association underestimates new studies and calculates its cost-benefit calculations in a dubious way. why are the health benefits not included? why does the automobile association leave out the inflation factor in its cost-benefit calculations, when we are talking about decades? parliament is called upon to do this. the polluters must share the cost by making their vehicles quieter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a proposal from the commission. not the commissioner for health, not the commissioner for the environment, but the commissioner for industry. i am surprised that i sometimes hear the round about the near-doom of the automobile industry. i think that is a reasonable proposal on the basis of which we should reach a compromise. i'm just annoyed that this is going back to first reading. the length of time it took to process it has nothing to do with our slowness, but there were difficulties with the report. the rapporteur has just mentioned this. we had to suspend the whole report for a while to clarify what the deficiency and the influence are. that was cleared up, which is why it took longer. each person has only one health, and we should take that into account! that's why we should go ahead and dry up the wells. but we shouldn't worry about everything. the road surface is the responsibility of the cities, towns and municipalities in the member states. i think we should at least leave it alone and just touch the little things that are within our sphere of competence. i think we made a good choice in the environment committee and we are at the beginning of the negotiations. it is often said that we do so much in the first reading. we have now achieved 60 or 70% in the first reading on the environment. it is also intended to make us think, from a democratic point of view, whether we should not take even more time for such matters, which have a significant impact on health, but also on industry, and hold a proper second reading here, so that as many people as possible can take part in this debate, also outside parliament, and form an opinion on it. that is not the case at first reading. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but i would ask everyone not to go back on the commission proposal, but the red line is at least the commission proposal.
mr audy, the president of the european council - i assume you are talking about mr van rompuy - is always invited to the european parliament. but the president of the european council considers that his interlocutors are the heads of government and not the european parliament. i have told him several times that we are very much of the opposite opinion. but i know a number of people in your group who are relatively close to mr van rompuy. perhaps you could increase the pressure a little more by saying at the next meeting: 'herman, come to parliament, it is better.' i myself constantly push him and challenge him. i must also inform you that, strictly speaking, mr van rompuy is not the european parliament's point of contact, but that of prime minister kenny as president-in-office of the council. the heads of government nevertheless consider that mr van rompuy is their point of contact. you see, we still have a lot of work to do in the european council, including on the treaty.
mr swoboda, the treaty is clear. the european council will decide tomorrow and friday on a political will. the purely formal decision on the multiannual financial framework is taken on the basis of article 312 of the treaty in the general affairs council, whose president-in-office is just entering the chamber, and then our negotiating partner would be mr kenny. you are aware of this, mr swoboda, and i have said this on several occasions in the conference of presidents. i have also pointed out repeatedly at the so-called quartet meetings that the european council is really the irish presidency. the negotiations with the heads of government are being conducted by mr van rompuy. i'm sure this is an unresolved contractual situation that needs to be discussed.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 7 and 8 february 2013 (2012/2801 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the council has already taken a decision on the matter. i thought it very good that yesterday in the speech by françois hollande we were reminded of the question put by president mitterrand, namely the question or the call: what must we do and how must we do it so that the citizens of europe really love europe? in my answer i am a little different from françois hollande. i am convinced, after many trips to europe, that europeans love europe. but they are facing the european institutions and their conflicts with a growing incomprehension, with a growing alienation, and i think it is really not surprising what is happening. i also believe that the debate on the budget and the mff, this medium-term financial planning, can already show why it is difficult to have confidence in europe and its institutions: no deal, good deal, bad deal - what are the europeans to do about it? i believe that this kind of debate makes it difficult for our citizens to identify with this great project of the european union. the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is actually the expression of a common will for a common political project. if i look back over the last few months, the last summits in which i have been a spectator for the european parliament, for my group, i can recall a series of declarations of intent by heads of state and government who have repeatedly stated the importance of meeting together the challenges of the future, not only because of the euro crisis but also because of the climate crisis and the growing global economic crisis. but when it comes to the oath, when it comes to money, we are constantly dealing with heads of state and government in the council, who then have to show clearly at home that they are saving more on europe and that they also still have a project at home that they themselves consider more important than joint progress, joint work on a future, on a better future for the european union. all the cuts that are being talked about will be at the expense of future sectors. all the cuts will hit those who want innovation, who want sustainable development, who want more research, more education, more inclusion for unemployed youth. is that really responsible? is this to be accounted for in the context of an agricultural reform which the majority of this house has already approved, at least in committee? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. is it really right to fund such prestigious projects as the multi-billion dollar iter fusion reactor in the south of france in an earthquake zone, instead of finally saying what energy research and development we need to make our energy sector sustainable in the future? i could go on and on. i believe that in our house some of this self-referential nature of the nation states is being taken up and not sufficiently criticized. my group is prepared to join the hard-fought debate with the council. we have made it clear from the outset that we are in favour of sound medium-term financial planning. we want the means that are anchored there to be consistent with our tasks and objectives. we want to get out of this indignity by our own means of the debate about how much money europe is really worth to the heads of state and government. we want to use these own resources to support a stable europe. we are in favour of flexibility, as we have often made clear. but really, i want to make it clear that this european union can only survive in the eyes of its citizens if the sunday speeches, which are delivered with great trepidation by heads of state and government from all over europe, also lead to a commitment to a good budget. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i don't know what is accepted as fact in britain. i've been familiar with the ipcc's scientific publications for many years. global scientists are organized for the un and observe the negative developments of climate change from different perspectives. i would recommend to those in britain who are keen to save, to take up the matter with sir nicholas stern, who years ago, as an economist, calculated very well what not acting on climate change will cost us all. i think you should really consult mr. stern.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all know that in order to ensure its ability to act, particularly with regard to enlargement, cohesion policy, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but also the question of international cooperation and also with regard to the fight against climate change, and i would like to say this explicitly again, and the sustainability strategy, the eu needs a larger budget on the one hand, but also a reform within the budget structure, both in terms of revenue and expenditure. but the commission's proposal to refer to a starting point of only 1.05 per cent of eu-27 gni is far too low for this task. the commission has thus recognised from the outset that the individual interests of the member states have now become more important than the common interest in the development of the european union. and here's the crux. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to be perfectly honest: i have the impression that it is precisely those countries which benefit most from the rebates and do not even explain this in their own member countries, that is, do not even say that countries like germany, for example, also benefit from the rebates system, that they are the ones who are most likely to lead the public debate to reduce the budget of the european union. i think that is hypocritical, i think it is wrong, i think it is very national, and it is counterproductive for the development of the european union. my expectation at the forthcoming summit, including from you, mr president schulz, is that it will be made clear once again that we insist on respecting the commitment made here to secure the deficits for the current year 2013 from fresh funds and to close these deficits. secondly, to make it clear that we cannot, as the european union, start planning deficits for each of the coming financial years at the level of the european union. it is a bankruptcy of the european union if we allow this, on the one hand, to put pressure on member states that are in trouble, and on the other hand to claim for the european union something that cannot work, that is illegal, that is a breach of contract and that ultimately leads to people not understanding what this is all about. this can't work. we reject that! i have the impression that the member states are first interested in the returns without declaring that they will also receive these returns. and secondly, hypocrisy prevails, i say that again, also in view of the debate, which was also raised earlier by my colleague mr swoboda, about what die welt has published. i think that's a problem. i also ask journalists to refer in future not only to the members of the european parliament who are obviously formulating their own populist strategy for re-election, but also to bear in mind that there is a wide range of positions within the european parliament and to reflect on them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. it would be good if you could not just limit yourself to the statements of individual members of parliament, which are then picked up by the media, but actually look at the salary and remuneration systems. if you compare things, for example, for the pay of senior civil servants in the federal republic of germany and in the european union, you will find that important points have been unfairly omitted from these comparisons, always in favour of the better living of civil servants in the federal republic of germany or in the united kingdom. i think when you compare, it should be very specific and very precise. then all the benefits should be brought to the table, including what is to be paid in, for example, deductions, contributions, so that we can have a fair discussion here. i am always in favour of the social partners negotiating with each other, especially when it comes to eu officials. i am opposed to the media's interference in such areas and the unilateral attribution of blame. i would like to ask you to be very specific, clear and transparent. this is what could be supplied by the eu, for example. transparency is urgently needed!
mrs. zimmer, just a quick word about your request. as for me in the european council, i want to say again - because i have been asked here in the last few hours about my position in the european council - that i will not sign a budget that is not balanced, nor a supplementary budget that does not cover the 16 billion deficit we have. i tell you that i would not do that even if parliament passed it, because it would be an illegal decision. articles 310 and 323 of the eu treaty require us to balance the budget. i cannot accept a deficit budget. i would like to say one thing to you, also as president of this parliament, on the question of filling high positions: whenever it comes to filling these positions, i or mr barroso are under enormous pressure from the very governments which are criticising the filling of these posts, to fill these positions with officials from these countries if possible. i want to put that on the record.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. to the irish member of the council: you have demanded that if the national states have to save, then the european level should also save. first of all, i would like to make clear once again what mr färm has just said: the proposal now on the table means a budget like the one in 2005. no member state has pursued such a vigorous policy of austerity. secondly, the commission's budget proposal is in fact a proposal for savings, and has thus shown itself to be extremely responsible in difficult times, but at the same time it has made it clear that we have a common european interest in investing sustainably, in doing more for education, social inclusion and research, because these are the areas of growth which are truly sustainable for the european union. so i very much welcome president schulz's announcement that he will not sign a deficit budget for the financial year 2013. the council - and this is where the schizophrenia in the council can be seen - is asking us for a budget which it will declare itself, and then is not prepared to make the corresponding funds available.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. no politician will ask for more money in these times, but everyone knows that money must be used sparingly and sensibly. if the member states do that, then we as the european union must do that too. but it is not sensible to delegate new tasks to the council and at the same time to organise savings. i can't do that. if you want to be economical with money, you also have to answer the question: what tasks are you questioning? where are you willing to push back tasks? otherwise, we will arrive at the very point where it is unacceptable to place more and more tasks and at the same time to give less money, thus pushing the european union into a debt policy. it can't be. i think the president has rightly pointed this out: we cannot make the same mistakes as the member states have made, systematically pushing ourselves into debt because we do not have the money and at the same time have more to do. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection. but simply saying we are cutting funding is a relatively unimaginative and intellectually not very clever response. thirdly, we need a debate here too, and it has already begun, on priorities. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very well received by the committee on budgets. we can't possibly escape that. but that doesn't just mean less money. it's too simple. ( the president agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, as provided for in rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
question for the commissioner: mr reul, if i understand you correctly, do you agree with what mr färm said earlier, that it is totally unacceptable that the council is now trying to reduce the level of the european budget to the level of 2005? secondly, do you agree with what the president has announced that if the council does not agree to pay the debts it has accumulated, he will refuse to sign it?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. firstly, there can be no budget that goes beyond debt. i am 100% with you and with what has just been said. secondly, i am 100% in favour of the need to complete the tasks that are there. and the necessary money must be made available. if you reduce the amount of money available, you have to reduce the number of tasks. it's just the two of them together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the item on the agenda which we have been discussing for more than two hours is entitled 'preparation of the european council'. this is yet another sign that the european parliament takes the european council seriously. too serious for you? we also assume that the council is well aware of what matters to parliament in a multiannual financial framework and takes this into account in its discussions and in the preparation of the negotiating basis. we have worked out and formulated our position more than a year and a half ago and have repeated it at regular intervals. everybody knows them now. the amount and structure of the budget, together with the ratio of commitments to payments, must be correct. the flexibility over the seven years and the different categories must be there. we want to modernise the budget and introduce the own resources reform. we are now left with only one request to the council: leave your petty national egos behind you! we must not forget that the european parliament is the only institution in the world which is not a political body. the question is: what do we want to achieve with the european budget for europe and its citizens?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, i found your intervention on trade very interesting because it is a subject which we have not even discussed today. in particular, it is clear that trade can indeed contribute significantly to gdp and that we also need guidelines. the conclusions also provide that reciprocity in public procurement, for example, should be regulated as soon as possible. i think that is right and good. i congratulate the council for wanting to go down this road now and for also clearly saying that the commission should put in place trade defence instruments. i think that is also right, because trade only works with reasonable guidelines. however, madam president, what i am missing is that when you look at all the trade agreements that are mentioned, especially with emerging countries, that there is no mention that we also need to have sustainable chapters, that we need to be clear about what social and environmental standards we require for fair trade to happen. last night we also discussed corporate social responsibility. i think that is part of the conclusion that european companies are behaving sensibly in other countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the end, the council can only give its unanimous approval to a proposal for the financial perspective after parliament has given its consent. here too, you must observe the order and take the contract seriously. i see the danger of a double deficit: a budget deficit and a rapid deficit in the european council in terms of european spirit and orientation. that is why it is necessary that the commitments entered into, the bills paid by member states, are now balanced in the way provided for by the budgetary rules and the treaty, so that we do not run into a deficit. so we will solve the 16 billion or so in arrears before we get to the financial framework and we will not again postpone payments beyond 2020 by means of budgetary tricks or extremely low payment appropriations for the next period. that would be dishonest and against the contract, because we don't want to get into debt in the future. i think there is too much discussion at council level about rebates and transfers to the benefit of states. what is the position on the debate on european added value? the european council must be told: look at your conclusions on research, development policy or transport networks! this is in stark contrast to what is discussed in the figures. of course, there is a need for reform here too. but the debate on reform must not be conducted in such a way that the public gets the impression that in times of peace the enemy is replaced by brussels. this is not working! we cannot have a sensible european policy in this way!
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission would also like to thank the rapporteur, ms parvanova, for her work and for the effort invested in processing these very demanding proposals. however, given the number of amendments, the commission will submit its position on each individual amendment to parliament’s secretariat.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a great honour to welcome the tunisian president, moncef marzouki, to the european parliament in strasbourg. welcome to the country, mr president. (applause from the centre) while you are here with us, at the same time, your country is mourning the death of the leader of the popular front, chokri belaïd, who was horribly murdered this morning. we condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms. (applause from the centre) we know that the tunisian authorities are doing everything possible and will take the necessary measures to bring those responsible to justice. a crime like this cannot go unpunished. i would like to express our condolences to mr belaïd's family and to the tunisian people. we stand with you in this difficult hour, and i call on all citizens of tunisia to rise up and stand for democracy, so that the spirit of unity and consensus that led to the liberation of the country on 14 january 2011 is preserved. mr president, we welcome with open arms the representative of a worthy and courageous people. two years ago, your people peacefully brought an end to one of the most repressive and corrupt regimes in the world. mr president, your presence here in this chamber gives us the opportunity to remember the tunisians who paid with their lives for freedom and dignity, and finally, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome with you, mr president, a man who, as a doctor and an exile, devoted himself to his patients here in strasbourg for over 15 years and tirelessly defended human rights. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, as i was able to receive him, he told me: 'as a citizen of strasbourg, i have seen the construction of the old parliament building and the construction of the new parliament building, as a neighbour, in another street here, and it is a moment of emotion for me,' he said, 'that as someone who has lived in exile for 23 years in the neighbourhood of this building, where this building has always been the symbol of hope that one day democracy and freedom will come to my country, i will be received here.' the president-in-office told me that it was a very emotional moment for him personally to be here now. i think, mr president, that it is an emotional moment for us too to welcome you here. (applause from the centre) your people have broken the shackles of arbitrariness and have embarked on a historic path towards democracy and the rule of law. this path has been long and rocky, and it remains full of challenges. it remains heavy and painful. however, i remain convinced that there will be no turning back for your country, but that it will continue to progress on the road to democracy. i was your guest in tunis in december. i was in your country for the first time, and i have to admit that i was full of bias because i didn't know what a country in transition was like. but i have to tell you, the courage, the bravery and the upsurge in your country is fascinating. you have explained to me in friendly and frank words that your role as president is to give confidence to all tunisians. to give hope to those who are fighting to preserve their standard of living and to those who are fighting to improve democracy, you told me, is the job of a president. the president of the republic needs support for this, and you will certainly find it here in this parliament. welcome to the country, mr president. (applause from the centre)
president of the republic of tunisia. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, from 1996 to 2001 the dictatorship forbade me to leave tunisia. the european parliament responded with this document, 'the freedom passport', which was presented to my youngest daughter here in 2000. this symbolic passport was sponsored by hélène flautre, jean-pierre thierry, michel rocard, astrid thors, gianfranco dell'alba, daniel cohn-bendit, daniel ducarme, josé maría mendiluce, alain lipietz, fodé sylla, alima thierry-boumediene, cecilia malmström, marie-arlette carlotti, françoise grossetête and françois zimeray. it was also the first time that the french government had given a passport to a country that had not yet been granted a passport. i would like to express my deep gratitude to them and, beyond my own case and their persons, the gratitude of all the tunisian and arab democrats who have always found in this institution representing the peoples of europe unequivocal support. (applause) i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the 1990s i wrote that if the 18th century was the century of the french and american revolutions, the 20th the century of the russian and chinese revolutions, the 21st century will be the century of the arab revolution. it wasn't from reading coffee grounds, it was from reading history. great nations do not commit suicide, do not let themselves die. deep down inside, when all seems lost, they finally find the energy to bounce back. the longer the ordeal, the deeper the fall, the stronger the energy that will propel them out of the hole they fell into. so the arab revolutions, written in a kind of history's fatality, finally happened. the fundamental and legitimate question which faces you and all europeans is simple: are these revolutions good or bad for us, a chance or a danger? to understand events, people, human beings, even animals or even things, requires a minimal dose of empathy. without it, what we see is closed to the eye and escapes the mind. i'm not just asking for your attention, but your empathy, ladies and gentlemen, without which there is no chance that we can communicate and meet. yes, the arab revolutions can cause serious problems for europe. we can already see the main ones coming out. there is a risk that they could escalate into civil war, civil unrest or even regional wars, as is already the case in syria, with all the impact that this could have on the security of europe. the second risk we faced was the day after the fall of the dictatorship in tunisia. our young people, taking advantage of the collapse of the security apparatus and not knowing much about the economic difficulties in europe, have rushed onto the boats to storm your coasts in the hope of an immediate better life. finally, there is the third threat: armed islamist extremism, which we call jihadist salafism, which could be reinvigorated by the outbreak of fever in this part of the world. global in the case of al qaeda, regional as in northern mali, which is the origin of the necessary french intervention, it is above all a national threat in each country of the arab spring, because it is it, and not the supporters of the old regime, which constitutes the most dangerous part of the counter-revolution. and for good reason, the democratic revolution cut the grass under his feet and frustrated him from what he believed was his historic chance to inherit the fallen dictatorships. (applause) i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, the glass is also half full. no, there is nothing to fear from the arab revolutions, because they are not nationalist or xenophobic revolutions. the usual anti-western or anti-israeli slogans were not heard at the start of the demonstrations. and for good reason, freedom is no longer being taken away from the foreign occupier, but from a corrupt and brutal dictatorship that has finally become a real internal occupation. the recent violent demonstrations by salafi jihadists against western embassies, in this deplorable story of islamophobic video, brought together only a few hundred individuals, under the worried and disapproving gaze of the overwhelming majority. no, there is really nothing to fear from arab revolutions, because these revolutions are first and foremost social revolutions, fighting for the same social and economic rights that have been the source of your own evolutions or revolutions. no, there is nothing to fear from the arab revolutions, because they are democratic revolutions. it is true that islamist parties have won undeniable electoral victories in tunisia, libya, egypt. but isn't it democracy that brought a significant fraction of islamism into its camp? didn't it impose its rules, its ethics and, in the background, its worldview? no, it is not islamism that triumphed in the wake of the arab spring, which it would pervert or recover, as some fear, it is not the democrats who "converted" to this political ideology called islamism, but it is the adherents of this doctrine - at least the moderate fraction largely majority in the tunisian islamist spectrum - who converted to democracy. are they sincere or are they manipulating? who better to tell than time? they must learn the game and play it by the rules of democracy, or they will have to reinstate a religious dictatorship, which the arabs will liquidate as they liquidated those with a so-called nationalist or so-called socialist face. (applause) i would like to thank and those who already speak of the islamic winter following the arab spring seem to be unaware of the number of years, even decades, that other peoples have needed to regain their equilibrium after a revolution. ladies and gentlemen, as far as the future of these revolutions is concerned, everything is at stake, nothing is yet in play. in tunisia, my country, the one i know best, we are proud to have made a revolution at the lowest human cost possible. i am thinking here with great emotion of the suffering of the syrian people, who are paying the highest price for their freedom and who need more than ever the humanitarian and political support of all free peoples and above all of europe. (applause) i would like to thank we have set up a coalition government between moderate secularists and moderate islamists, so that both modernist and traditionalist components of our people can be found in those who run their affairs. this government works. he restored a state that had ceased to exist in 2011. he restarted the economic machine that has made tunisia go from a growth rate of -1.8% in 2011 to +3.5% in 2012. the government is certainly dysfunctional because of all the personal and political conflicts that are characteristic of all coalitions, but we have no better choice and we will have to accept that until the next elections, which we want to be as close as possible. we have been drafting for months the constitution of a democratic and civil state, of a pluralist society, with the difficulties you can imagine, but here too the spirit of consensus prevails, and we hope to agree on the text within two or three months. we are absolutely committed to promoting and defending all freedoms, to protecting women's achievements, but we cannot change the attitudes and behaviours of those over 50 in two years. we are determined to protect the way of life of the tunisian people, of modernist tunisia and to raise the standard of living of poor and forgotten tunisia, but the socio-economic challenges are colossal, as the legacy of the dictatorship, carefully concealed for more than twenty years, is proving to be heavy. we are absolutely determined to continue our strategy of absorbing the modernist, moderate faction of islamism - because it exists, no matter how much the ideologues who see neither the complexity nor the dynamics of the political thing - and equally determined to confront its insoluble faction in democracy, and this by security means within the framework of the law and respect for human rights, but above all by social, economic and cultural development. we will never accept that this current, the equivalent of your far right, endangers our model of society, which is deeply rooted in its arab-muslim heritage but resolutely oriented towards modernity. we will not let it jeopardize women's achievements, human rights or the relationship with the west, which we want to be peaceful, friendly and based on mutual respect, and a partnership that benefits both our communities. (applause) i would like to thank this path, ladies and gentlemen, is fraught with pitfalls, many pitfalls, for this peaceful revolution has many enemies, who are determined to make it fail. a concerted verbal violence, burning marabouts, to incite muslims against muslims, and today, this heinous murder of a political leader i know well, who has been a longtime friend of mine, chokri belaid. this political assassination today, when i was about to address you, is a threat, it is a letter sent, but it will not be received. we reject this letter, we reject this message and we will continue, first to expose the enemies of the revolution... (applause)... and also to conduct our policy. the whole process of democratizing the state and society and establishing sustainable development is therefore proving to be more difficult, more complex and above all longer than expected, but it is progressing. many factors will determine the fate of our revolution and the arab revolutions: the determination of the people or their discouragement, the wisdom of men or their folly, this butterfly effect so difficult to identify and control and which we designate, for lack of other words, by the terms luck or providence. but you can bet on tunisia, which is now the real laboratory of a great transition destined to succeed. ladies and gentlemen, we have suffered a great deal in tunisia from the absence of the rule of law at national level, but also from its absence at international level. in the face of the presidential elections organized by the dictator and won by the eternal score of 99%, we, democrats and human rights activists, had no recourse to ask for the invalidation of these rigged elections. there is no national constitutional court, there is no international constitutional court. hence the idea of the latter: a supranational body charged with deciding on the basis of the universal declaration of human rights, international pacts and treaties, on the validity of an election and on the conformity of a national constitution with international standards. this organization that i dreamed of as a persecuted intellectual is now a string project that was endorsed by the african union summit in addis ababa last week. it has the support of several south american states and i am here to ask you, on behalf of tunisia, to support it so that the rule of law in the world continues to advance and democracy continues to strengthen. ladies and gentlemen, we must rely on ourselves, but we also want to be able to rely on europe, especially since for the first time in our common history our interests and ideals are in agreement. we understand the difficulties of our partners on the northern shore of our common sea, but in the medium term we are sure that to invest and to invest in the consolidation of our economy is also to consolidate our nascent democracy and therefore to consolidate democracy in general. i would like to thank germany for agreeing to convert part of our debt - the equivalent of 60 million euros - into development projects. we hope that our other partners, and especially the first of them, france, will do the same. ladies and gentlemen, beyond this strictly economic aspect, there is something deeper in the relations between our two worlds. astronomers identify galaxies and clusters of galaxies, and they are able to see the stars in the sky. we can identify cultures and groups of cultures in the same way. someone rightly said that the east begins somewhere east of iran. "maghreb" means "west" in arabic, and in a sense we are southwesterners sharing with northwesterners that you are the same greek, judeo-christian and muslim heritage, a shared painful history, from the crusades to colonization. all of this has created complex but powerful relationships between two communities. we know what the nascent west owes to arab-muslim culture. we also know that the modernity of arab-muslim culture is largely the appropriation of the best that europe has created in the fields of arts, culture, science and politics. i would like to remind you that human exchanges are only enriching for both parties, especially if they are to be sustainable, if they are based on equality. the three hundred million arabs have promoted several european languages which are now an integral part of their culture. let me express my hope that europe will give the arabic language and culture a place that has been unjustly denied in the context of unequal relations that will be less and less accepted by our new generations. (applause) i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, european influence on the arab world is also ideological and it is not new. during the 20th century, egypt, iraq and libya have each seen themselves as prussia, nasser, saddam and gaddafi as arab bismarcks. this model of arab unity based on the strength of arms and the charisma of a leader has failed, and that's a good thing for arabs and the world. today, what we dream of is a maghreb union, and later an arab union, on the model of the european union, that is, a union of democratic states and free peoples, working together for the good of all. (applause) i would like to thank we are also fascinated by the european union's most remarkable, if not miraculous, achievement: franco-german reconciliation. the existence of such a miracle shows its possibility and also the possibility of its reproduction, despite the rarity of miracles. let me ask you here to prepare for the coming of that peace that we all want in the middle east. i ask all your israeli colleagues, in the face of the current blockade, the main threat to peace in the region and the world, to think about a peace that is neither surrender nor a long truce, with each side arming for a new round of the eternal war. ask them to release marwan barghouti, a parliamentarian like you... (applause)... and let him come to tunisia to recover from his health destroyed by ten years in prison in total isolation. ladies and gentlemen, i started with a personal memory, let me end with another personal memory. strasbourg is the city where i studied, where i learned my trade, the city whose people have left a deep impression on me, with their sense of work, discipline and modesty, the city where my two daughters were born, and the city where the fundamental choices that have guided the rest of my life were made. as a young intern in the early 1970s, i went to one of my most prestigious professors at the medical school in strasbourg to ask him for a topic for my doctoral thesis. he suggested that i work on the question of human experimentation in medicine. i immediately accepted, not because i was interested in the subject, but because i wanted to call myself a student of marc klein. what i did not know was that my revered teacher, because he was a jew, had been sent to a concentration camp, and because he was a doctor, he had been assigned to a unit that conducted medical experiments on prisoners. the preparation of the thesis was a journey into horror, the horror of a science without conscience, the horror of a human nature capable of the worst, the horror of insane political regimes, the horror of the banality of evil. it was during my research that i first read the universal declaration of human rights, and that's when everything changed. i don't think marc klein realized for a moment the impact he was going to have on the life of this young intern foreigner who came to him asking for the honor of being his student, nor the impact it was going to have, in mysterious ways, on the destiny of thousands of other men. i had no idea what its influence would cost me in terms of battles, imprisonment, exile, years of persecution, but also in terms of battles, accomplishments and victories. because this victory, which allows me to stand here today, in this high place of democracy, peace and brotherhood among peoples, to speak as a free man speaking on behalf of a free people, is also his, allow me to dedicate it to him. (applause) finally, i would like to congratulate strasbourg, alsace, the french-tunisian friendship and the euro-arab friendship. i end with the most beautiful greeting exchanged between men: as-salâma-l-malikum, peace be upon you. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, i think i need add nothing to the president's words and your applause. but i have just agreed with the president - because i received a number of requests during the president's speech - that this house should also symbolically, beyond applause, pay tribute to the victim and the victims by observing a minute's silence at the end of this sitting. i'd like to ask you to rise from your seats. (parliament adopted the resolution) i must thank you very much. i thank the president of tunisia. i think that was a very moving moment. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. (applause from the centre and the right)
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. on behalf of the s&d group, i make the following oral request on article 15: in paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: fishing for small pelagic species, i.e. mackerel, herring, horse mackerel, blue whiting, anchovy, gold salmon, sardine, sprat, shall be carried out from 1 january 2014 at the latest; that means the boar is off the list. reason: this makes the ban on discarding also possible in the mediterranean. i ask you to agree to this.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. can you repeat the vote before that? the translation got the wrong numbers. we got the wrong number.
madam vice president! could you either stop making phone calls right now or give up your seat for a capable president? (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the oral amendment is very short. the word 'demand driven' is replaced by the word 'end' and the remainder of the text remains.
i have to say, madam president, i too voted in favour of the report and i was particularly pleased that the european parliament had made a clear commitment to a ban on discarding. i think it was a good day overall. the european parliament has, above all, resisted the temptation to devalue and reverse this decision by making too many exceptions. the near future will show whether it was a good day overall, not only for fish but above all for fishermen and the fisheries industry.
in writing. − the current common fisheries policy does not follow a sustainable approach. it is not going to solve the problems of overfishing and overcapacity. because we want to protect our environment and at the same time we want good, healthy food, we really need to change things and stop throwing fish back. we cannot justify the current procedure which allows an average of 23% of the fish caught to be thrown away. that is why we need this ambitious and fundamental reform of the eu's fisheries policy to stop overfishing. i support the committee's proposal for sustainable fishing quotas, a ban on discards and maximum sustainable yield (msy) plans because that is the best way forward for fishermen, coastal areas, fish stocks and our citizens. this reform will increase the fish stocks in the seas by 15 million tonnes by 2020. at the same time, fishermen's income will increase by 25% and the number of jobs by 38% by 2022.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 234 by way of amendment of the vote. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the vote was conducted by the vice-president-in-office in a chaotic manner and the translation was delayed. in order to avoid such situations in the voting, i think it is important that the vice-presidents of the european parliament should be able to speak one of the three working languages.
in writing. - decades of intensive fishing in european waters have led to a dramatic decline in fish stocks. overfishing must be stopped, because it not only worsened the economic situation in the eu, but also led to deficits in fisheries partnership agreements with developing countries. we need a fundamental change of course. that is why i voted in favour of the report as presented by the rapporteur. only with a clear legal commitment and a clear timetable can we achieve sustainability in the fisheries sector. rules without clear deadlines or with vague requirements would only create legal uncertainty in the fishing industry. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of fishing quotas for the baltic sea. in some fisheries, they account for over 50 percent of the catch. it's a huge waste of our ocean resources. we must ensure that future generations can also make appropriate use of these resources.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i disagree with the epp colleague, whom i respect very much. this is not a matter that can be worked out behind closed doors and in complete silence, but i believe that there have been so many developments in the last months and years with regard to the kurdish question in turkey that it is necessary and right that we are here today to talk about it and also to debate publicly how it can go forward. one only has to think: who among us could have imagined that the government in ankara would enter into a dialogue with a person who has been called an unperson for many years? we must face the fact that in the southeast of turkey, turkish soldiers are being fired upon every day by pkk militants from the mountains. we have the regional dimension - which has not been mentioned here by either the council or the commission - with northern iraq and the situation in syria. that is to say, we have a situation which, together with the murders in paris, raises a great question mark for all of us: what is the future of the situation of the kurds? one thing is clear, as mr obiols has just said: yes, the situation has improved for the kurds in terms of language, schools and courts. but at the same time we are seeing a massive campaign of repression against the kck, that is to say against people who are mainly active in the communal politics of southeastern turkey. i believe that this is why the public debate can perhaps start here today in the european parliament, that it can gain momentum, that the kurdish problem is no longer in the shadow of our attention, but that we are debating it publicly. we have some messages to convey clearly. firstly, to the turkish government: we condemn terrorism and we understand that no government in the world can accept that its own soldiers and police are being shot at and killed every day. we encourage the turkish government to continue the dialogue on the island of i̇mralı. this thread should not be allowed to be torn. but the kck wave of arrests must be stopped, the repression must end, and the turkish government must realize the regional dimension of the problem: southeast turkey is no longer isolated. to the kurds, i want to say clearly: distance from terrorism - this applies to the bdp, but it also applies to the kck - a clear distance from terror and violence. and the pkk must stop its fighters in the mountains, otherwise there is no dialogue, otherwise there is no peaceful solution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i cannot put my question to mr tannock now, but i would like to say that the bdp has not called for separation from turkey for at least the last 10 years. i think it is important and we should take this into account in the debate, that it is no longer about the separation and destruction of turkey. i would also like to add that my group, the gue, also welcomes the courageous approach to dialogue with abdullah öcalan and the pkk that the turkish government took at the end of december. both sides have embarked on a process which has raised great hopes among the international partners, but above all among the citizens of turkey, who have suffered for more than 30 years from war and violence. the talks between the turkish government and mr öcalan are an important step, but they are only a first step towards a political and peaceful solution. the road to peace and reconciliation is still long. he can only be left if we can build trust. peace negotiations are not power games. peace negotiations can only be won or lost together. the initiative was taken by the turkish government. it has thus responded to years of demands from other sections of the kurdish movement. however, prime minister erdoğan is in control but the reins of a successful peace process must be held by all sides. the negotiations need reliability. the participation in the talks must not become a lottery. the next steps must therefore be for the parties to the conflict to agree together on the further course of the negotiations and to agree together on who is to be involved in the negotiations. the three murders in paris of sakîne cansiz, fidan doğan and leyla söylemez on 9 january this year have obviously interrupted the process that had begun. i believe i speak for all members of this house when i appeal to both sides of the conflict not to let the three murders divert them from the negotiating process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in december i took part in a visit to turkey by the subcommittee on human rights, and we learned about various human rights violations in turkey. it also included the degradation, vilification, persecution and imprisonment of human rights defenders throughout the country, but mersin region was mentioned most often. here the pro-kurdish bdp party had particularly good election results. in the past and today, there are many trials against journalists, professors, intellectuals who are fighting for the rights of the kurds, who are exercising their right to freedom of expression and are therefore labelled and criminalized as terrorist sympathizers. hundreds of human rights activists accused of supporting the kck are in detention without any specific charges or are threatened. kurdish deputies of the bdp party at the state and municipal level are also in detention or awaiting trial. all this is not a good basis for a political solution. the process of drafting a constitution that would give more rights to ethnic minorities also seems to have stalled. it is difficult to reach agreement on the question of citizenship. the anti-terrorism law, education in the kurdish language and lowering the 10 percent threshold in national elections are also controversial. i urge the council and the commission to stand up for those who defend the rights of the kurdish minority and are therefore imprisoned or sentenced by an unindependent judiciary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the new peace initiative. but it is also important that this initiative comes to a good conclusion, acceptable to both sides. terror and violence are not acceptable and do not provide a solution. instead, what is needed is recognition of the kurdish minority and a political dialogue in which both sides must come together. the new constitution can help. what does not help are exaggerated anti-terrorism laws that already send minors to prison for minor offenses and are used to intimidate critics. i would like to make a strong appeal to the turkish government not to let this unique opportunity pass, to take it now and not to wait any longer, and i would also appeal to the commission to support the turkish government in this - the turkish government, but also the whole of turkey and the kurdish minority - and i also think that we as a parliament can contribute to this with the progress report and also by continuing to deal with the subject.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think peace can be achieved. we saw this from 2005 to 2011, when there was a ceasefire. in the meantime, the most far-reaching steps have been taken in turkey, from a television station that can broadcast 24 hours a day in kurdish, to the fact that the courts can now also defend in kurdish, for which the turkish state bears the costs. but there is still room for progress when i see that there is still a backlog in school education in kurdish, and when you consider that there is still a need for a civil constitution within turkey. the anti-terrorist laws must also be adapted in this context, because they are the source of many of the irritations that are happening in turkey. i also think it is important for the turkish parliament to consider the 10% threshold in order to promote economic development in the region of southeast anatolia. but it is also clear that violence can never be a solution and that ultimately the pkk must lay down its arms in this area in order to achieve a peaceful solution for the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: yes, colleague, you mentioned the 10% barrier. it is indeed a major problem, especially for the kurdish parties. what if the s&d and the spe were to persuade their sister party, or even member party, that there is a binding commitment from the chp that such a 10% barrier is actually abolished in the event of a government participation or in the event of the formation of a government? i thought that was very good, because even under chp governments the 10% barrier has not been removed. i've been hearing some very constructive things lately.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i thank you very much, mr lambsdorff. in fact, that's an important point. we social democrats also discuss this issue with our sister party at every opportunity. but it is also my knowledge that there is a consensus on this now, but it is not the chp. i also think it is really important to lower the 10% barrier. we knew the origin. at that time, the aim was to prevent the formation of any political parties in southeastern anatolia. but that too has now been put aside, because we know that by bypassing the membership of parliament as a non-party member you have nevertheless joined a certain group. that argument is dead. it is rather an argument for continuing to break down this 10% barrier, to bring it down to european standards in order to allow for more participation. we will continue to pursue this matter, including with our sister party. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. thank you very much, madam president. i can nevertheless say again and emphasize the importance and significance of a new civil constitution: here too, we must carry out what is known in turkey as a siyasi parti reform - that is, in practice, a party reform of the political parties - and in this context, we hope and wish turkey to do the same, should it be possible to lower this 10% barrier, because everything else has not worked in the past. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am aware of that, of course, mrs oomen-ruijten. but that doesn't mean that this decision was right, and if you talk to bdp, there's a different view today of what existed then. but despite all this - and you will not be able to deny this - it is important to set a threshold or a barrier that ultimately meets european standards. it is not up to european standards at the moment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you, minister creighton. you have very well outlined the eu's priorities, which for the most part have our full support, as set out in our resolution. it has become a very large resolution. it is also worthwhile to deal with this intensively because the results of the human rights council and the lessons learned there are also an important basis for our human rights work at european level. that is why the quality of the work of the human rights council is very important to us. we ask you, as every year, to ensure that the un special rapporteurs are allowed to work independently and that they are defended when their work is attacked. you also pointed out, mrs creighton, that the upr, the universal periodic review, is a very important instrument. we can only support that. we are seeing that it is the implementation of the upr results that is producing results, that there are concrete improvements on the ground. the more regrettable it is that israel has suspended its participation in the upr mechanism. i hope you will be able to get this step reversed. the resolution on syria is the top priority. mrs schaake has said that she will support this as well. we made a lot of suggestions. the eu is therefore more regrettable for not speaking with one voice when referring the situation in syria to the international criminal court. i very much hope that perhaps the council can be persuaded to correct sweden's position here. the new feature of our resolution is that we ask the eu to work towards the end of the stigmatisation of ngos that we see in many laws in different countries. there have also been threats against activists in geneva. that's not really something to be taken for granted. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the point about why we are now criticizing israel: there are several paragraphs that deal with the situation in the region. i have emphasized that the government's decision to no longer cooperate with the universal periodic review is a weakening of the entire un system. that's why i said that. of course, wherever possible, the eu should also criticise the human rights situation and the violations of human rights in russia.
the debate was closed by six motions for resolutions, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 february 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the rule of law and freedom in bulgaria (2013/2534 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the presidency recognises the right of this house to debate issues related to the functioning of any one member state where these potentially touch on issues relating to the basic values and principles which underpin the european union. you will however appreciate that the presidency cannot take a view on issues where the council has neither discussed nor adopted any position. i will therefore limit myself to a few remarks which are of a more general nature but which are nevertheless important in the wider context. i hope they will also clarify the situation from the point of view of the council. firstly, and importantly, i would like to stress one point which is well known to all of us: that the european union is founded on a number of basic values and principles which are set out in the treaties. these values and principles, which include freedom, democracy and the rule of law, are also enshrined in the constitutional traditions of each of the member states. the council attaches particular importance to ensuring that these values and principles are fully respected. i know that this house fully shares that view. all member states are required to ensure that their legislation respects the basic values on which the eu is founded. but the rule of law and democratic values have not only to be enshrined in texts, they also have to be put into practice. that means that legislation has to be respected and enforced. if there are any concerns or doubts that this is not the case, this is first and foremost a matter for the commission. as far as bulgaria is concerned, it is one of two member states which are the subject of a cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm) established when it entered the eu in 2007. this mechanism is designed to assist it in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission reports regularly under the cvm, most recently – in the case of bulgaria – last july. in light of this report the council adopted conclusions in september 2012 which, of course, are publicly available. these conclusions touch on the issue of the rule of law. i hope you will understand that i am not in a position to offer a more detailed contribution to this afternoon’s debate. i speak as presidency of the council, and therefore in the name of all 27 member states. i will however listen with interest to this debate and take good note of your comments.
member of the commission. − mr president, the rule of law is an issue that concerns everyone in the european union. as a union, we have to be clear on our values, firm on our principles and fair on how we approach this. the european union is a union of values and a community of law. of primary importance are principles like freedom, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. the most basic functioning of the european union depends on mutual trust between member states’ systems of law and justice. this needs common standards of respect for the rule of law. these are the values which have spurred the european union on in good times and held us together in more difficult times. we all know that there is a diversity of legal and political cultures across the eu, but the coherence and endurance of our union also relies on important commonalities and standards – the rule of law, multi-party democracy, independent judiciary, freedom of expression, the respect for fundamental rights and an active civil society. none of these is a given. to uphold them, we all need to nurture and to strengthen them every day at all levels of society and in all member states. indeed, the eu’s commitment to these values goes beyond our shores, as we partner third countries to make them take root and become a universal common good. should these fundamental values come into question at home, the commission has a responsibility to uphold the values of the treaty. at different times and in different situations the commission has responded firmly where there was particular pressure put on respect for the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. the rule of law and democracy are, as we see it, two sides of the same coin, and modern representative democracy is inconceivable without a thriving multi-party system. political parties are the bridge between government and society in the ways they translate society’s demands into political ideas and programmes and in the way they hold government to account on behalf of citizens. intimidation of, or violence directed at, legal political parties is therefore an attack on democracy itself, and we must say this clearly: it is unacceptable in any form. that is why the commission strongly condemned the attempted assault on 19 january 2013 against mr ahmed doğan, then leader of the movement for rights and freedoms. the commission has made it very clear from the outset that, while the attack is a matter which is internal to bulgaria, it will be essential that the bulgarian authorities conduct an in-depth investigation and bring those responsible to justice – and do so quickly. at the same time, the commission calls on all political forces to demonstrate responsibility and restraint. criminal acts must not be allowed to fuel extremist political sentiments. we need responsible political leadership that puts the rule of law and the interests of the citizens first. so eu membership brings support, and it also brings expectations. this is exactly what the bulgarian people expect. in a eurobarometer last summer, 78% of bulgarians said they wanted their country to achieve standards comparable to other member states, and 76% wanted the eu to take a strong role in this. in the run-up to the accession of bulgaria to the eu in 2007, it was agreed that further work was needed to address shortcomings in judicial reform, the fight against corruption and tackling organised crime. these are issues which are very relevant in the context of the rule of law, and this led to the establishment of a framework to support bulgaria in these areas: the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm).the commission follows these issues very closely. we monitor, analyse and make recommendations. we will continue to work to help meet the goals of the cvm. progress under the cvm will also mean progress in consolidating the rule of law. achieving the fundamental reforms needed in order to reach convincing results requires the joint efforts of government, parliament, the judiciary and civil society. particularly over the coming months it is important that the electoral campaign does not interrupt the process of reform. the rule of law also brings the stable environment so critical to the confidence of partners and investors. this is particularly vital in times of economic crisis. as the democratic overseer of developments in the eu, parliament can also play a crucial role in monitoring and raising awareness of the importance of the rule of law in the member states, underlining its indivisible link with democracy. so i hope that all institutions of the eu will continue to work together to encourage the rule of law and freedom in bulgaria.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, the commission and parliament! first of all, i wonder what we are discussing here today. we have a normal criminal investigation in bulgaria, like the hundreds of thousands of investigations in the european union, where authorities, prosecutors, police investigate and then present it to the judge and then decide. and we are now discussing such a case in the european parliament! the council and the commission have in fact said nothing in their opening speech today. why would you do that? because there's nothing to say. it is a matter of clear internal policy which is being settled in bulgaria, and i can give you the answer. we are discussing it because in a few weeks' time there will be an election in bulgaria, and the election will be decided. there is an attempt to bring matters of national competence to europe, and this house is not really there for that. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has confirmed that initiatives have been taken and it is clearly a bulgarian task. the bulgarian government has been working ambitiously in recent years on the issues affecting this country - corruption, the fight against corruption and also the issue of the independence of the judiciary. this is confirmed by the progress reports which the commission has regularly submitted. and if i may take the schengen example to illustrate: we have always had debates in recent years about whether bulgaria is the child of worry and that is why schengen enlargement is not happening today. today bulgaria is not the child of concern, today romania is the child of concern. why don't we discuss romania? there was a progress report this week, a real report from the commission on romania, which admitted real deviations, where the independence of the judiciary is being called into question, where ponta is intervening against his own constitutional court. scandalous conditions in romania! we as the epp wanted to discuss this in this house. unfortunately, the socialists did not support the idea of discussing this subject here. i say let's talk about the real issues, and the real issues are definitely not the issues that we have in bulgaria at the moment. let us not have a national campaign here in the european parliament! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. this is an easy question to answer, because i am not the one who has to answer, but i have been listening to the commission. the commission notes that the bulgarian government must act now. that means that we are dealing with a normal criminal procedure which has to be carried out on the spot and which has to explain why these incidents occurred at this congress. i, as the epp representative, simply have full confidence in the bulgarian authorities and the bulgarian government that they will do what is necessary. there is nothing more to be said, nothing less.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you know when this criminal act we've been debating here would actually be a case for this house? if a representative of the ruling party had shot mr. doğan, the minister of interior had ordered his release, and the minister of justice had ordered the prosecutor to stop all investigations, and the government had refused to condemn this case. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. but here, the investigation is going on as usual, and the perpetrator is also in custody. that is why the council and the commission have not expressed any criticism of the procedure, but only the expectation that the law will be followed. apart from this regrettable incident, dear liberal colleagues, please look at the obscure party you are being put in front of, how democratically mr doğan is organising his party from within - he is apparently the leader for life - and what evidence there is of involvement in organised crime. i think that also answers the question of how to classify it.
a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final - doc. cop 19 is coming up. cop 18 feels like it just happened. we've made slow progress there. more than expected, less than hoped, so to speak. but kyoto 2 has been decided, 37 industrialized nations are now going to be there, and a roadmap has been agreed on how we move in the future internationally to an agreement, a successor to kyoto. we were there again with the parliament as a delegation. i must say, it was a very good delegation trip. we have had many useful conversations, including with various international actors, about eu legislation, internal legislation. it was only during the doha debate that the eu had to be clarified by the council on several occasions. it's been heard in the outside world. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because the cop 19 conference will be held in europe, and we had a visit here yesterday, and a really good european speech was given here yesterday, the real eu speech. it was held here, by françois hollande. in his speech he also mentioned once again that we want to finally get an agreement under way at cop 21, which will most likely take place in paris, and that is why we have a very big concern from parliament: how does the council intend to draw up a roadmap towards paris? but the first step is, of course, for the first time this year in poland, where we have to take the step in the right direction. i have to say, the performance wasn't very good in doha. we also saw in the plenary that there was a need for a vote, that it was not the americans or other countries but the european union that was suddenly on the brakes. we're very interested in your clarifying that: do you have a strategy there? will it be settled under the irish presidency and then the next presidency? and what steps are there beyond that? i believe that we europeans are in a position to do our bit here, and i can only promise you that we in parliament will be watching the whole process very closely and will also, as often as possible, seek to have a debate here with each other, and that we will also generate a broad public on the spot. because, it must be said, they were also missing in doha. i often say that i receive 300 to 400 e-mails a day about acta, as do all my colleagues here. but on the subject of climate, what is the future of our climate and international agreements? it is not so richly sown, and i think we need to emphasize once again the importance of this issue and that we as europeans should not wait for others, but should go further - towards a low-carbon society, towards a sustainable society - and bring the 194 countries on board. we know that this is not easy. we see that every day in parliament. we have heard over and over again in recent weeks that there is a struggle for the best compromise and that it is not getting any easier with 194 countries. but that is why it is particularly important that in the run-up to the cop 19, 20 and 21, europe really stands united, speaks with one voice and that we can also stand there with confidence, because if we stand there with a slingshot, as was the case in doha, i think it is not good. i would like to make this quite specific, for example, by making financial commitments. i think it is a good thing when member states commit themselves to making money available for the fight against climate change, as has already been agreed at a cop. but if it is not done in public, but on the margins, then there is also a need for more coordination, for europeans to say: we are putting money on the table, we are in favour of the climate fund really getting under way and that the tasks we have to do are also solidly financed. that is why we have more coordination and why we are debating this today. i look forward to the debate that follows.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i believe that it is indeed a very good time to take stock of what happened in doha and to look ahead, not only to the next cop in warsaw at the end of this year, but also to paris at the end of 2015. in this context i think the question is very timely. although it was a difficult and challenging cop – and i certainly take note of mr groote’s points – doha did manage to achieve its stated aims, namely to finalise the rules in order to make operational the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, to close the track on long-term implementation of the convention, and to address the work on the only remaining negotiating track for the coming three years, the durban platform for enhanced action (adp). let us not forget that this result was achieved thanks to the fact that the eu had a common position and spoke with one voice on the issues, including on issues relating to the kyoto protocol. it is certainly not always easy to reach such a common position amongst 27 member states – it can be challenging – but we got there and that is what counts at the end of the day. now the task ahead is twofold: implementation of all the decisions that were adopted, and continuation of the negotiations on the durban platform track. these negotiations, which should be concluded by 2015, consist of two workstreams – devising the principles and structure for a post-2020 agreement, which will be legally binding for all 195 parties to the unfccc, and exploring how we can increase the level of mitigation ambition between now and 2020. these negotiations will require a lot of innovative and outside-the-box thinking since we are devising a regime that will start in 2020 and will need to provide some longer-term perspective. the debate on this new regime will be further informed by a green paper that the commission will publish shortly. i am sure that commissioner hedegaard will give you more insights on that. the various actors, the eu institutions, member states, but also the private sector and the public at large, are already starting to think about what kind of global climate regime we want to agree by 2015 in order for it to be in place and taking effect in a post-2020 world. the eu will then need to devise how best to achieve the desired outcome by the end of 2015. it is worth noting that two eu member states will be playing a leading role in the unfccc process leading up to this new post-2020 climate regime since, as you know, poland and france will be the conference hosts in 2013 and 2015 respectively. there are expectations and opportunities for the eu and its member states to play a key role in facilitating agreement and in continuing to lead an ambitious agenda to keep global temperature increases below the 2°c threshold. in their 18-month programme presented within the three successive presidencies, ireland, lithuania and greece have committed themselves to preparing and coordinating the eu’s position effectively within their respective semesters. the council will establish the eu position for the warsaw conference by october of this year. in this context, as has been in the case in previous years, we very much look forward to the valuable input from the european parliament.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will try to address the very specific question that mr groote put forward here of how we can ensure that europe speaks with one voice. i think that those of us who have lived through these many years share the concern, and sometimes also the frustration, over how difficult it is to bring europe to speak with one voice. i would say that we should continue to do what we did in cancún, what we managed to do in durban and what we also managed to do actually in doha. obviously it is not always easy, as the irish presidency also just said, but i think that in fact we have managed to do so and we should, of course, do this again this year. we will work with the presidencies, we will work from the commission with the member states, we will listen to the advice from parliament, and in the case of cop 19 in warsaw, we will of course also try to work very closely with the poles, acknowledging that they have a different role here as the cop presidency for the whole world and not just as part of the eu. i myself will go to warsaw in just a few weeks from now to discuss how to manage this year with the incoming polish presidency. it is, of course, true that there have been examples of it being difficult for europe to find its common position in due time. but i also think that it is fair to say that there is one issue in particular that has, for years, been the symbol of this and that was the assigned amount units (aaus). there, i agree, it did not look too beautiful to the rest of the world but in fact the good news from doha was the internal coordination within the eu. for the first time in many years we actually managed to solve this problem with the aaus. it took a lot of time and energy in durban but was still not solved. the same in qatar but there the problem was solved. we could have full carry-over but restricted use – down to 2 % – and no use in the european union in order to comply with our own rules. what is more, there was a declaration from all the relevant parties – all the parties taking the second commitment period post-japan – that they will not buy aaus. so i think that what has been a contentious issue for many years has now been solved and, all other things being equal, that this should strengthen the chances in good time before cops of having a unified european position not on almost all the issues, but on all the issues. it is true, as we just heard from the presidency, that we are preparing in order to stimulate the debate; the debate prior to warsaw, but also prior to 2015. we are trying to stimulate that in the commission by presenting a green paper soon. this will invite member states, naturally, but also all other stakeholders – and parliament too of course – to discuss the difficult issues up to 2015. we will also use the council meetings, the informal council meetings, as well as the many meetings where different groups of ministers from the eu meet together, to try to come closer to what is the ideal way, what is the maximum we can achieve by 2015. it is very clear that the commission will continue efforts of that kind but i also think that it is fair to say that we should not fool ourselves. it will be tough for europe to preside over two of the next three cops up to the 2015 agreement and that will make the burden on us to find a consolidated eu position even heavier. that goes for poland this year but it also goes for france in the very decisive year of 2015. it is more imperative than ever that the eu gets its act together, that we jointly define our priorities and that we are, as was also said in the beginning, good at communicating them in a strong and united way. i basically think that this work already starts now. for instance, with our american colleagues it seems that there is maybe a window of opportunity of maybe 18 months where, if they can move anything, then it has to be done before the mid-term elections. it cannot be done in the last months of 2015. so we will raise all these difficult issues in the green paper – the ambition level from 2020 onwards, the ambition gap before 2020, the finance issue as was mentioned, the legal form and, maybe even more controversially, how to account for all the many different initiatives outside the unfccc: access to sustainable energy for all, getting rid of fossil fuel subsidies, all these other kinds of initiatives, the icis too. how can they all be used to play a positive role when it comes to the unfccc? i would like to say too that in the green paper we are preparing we will ask some quite clear questions about the unfccc process itself; not that we are questioning the unfccc process, but how we can improve that process. so there are lots of difficult issues on the plate for months to come and we will do whatever we can to ensure that in 2013, and also in 2014 and 2015, europe will manage to speak with one voice. that is the way that we can get the impact on the negotiations that we should have.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am glad to hear several times today that we have a new timetable for the climate debate. i think so too. the time of kyoto i let it be good or bad is over. we were arguing about who was in and who wasn't. and the guy who wasn't in the room didn't want to do anything. others who were in there didn't do much either. i believe that the durban platform is a plateau on which we can work for the future. it should give us hope. until then, of course, we have to live with kyoto ii. but i think it's actually doable. i think we need to use the motivation that comes out of this durban platform to find new strategies for dealing with these giant conferences. europe is called upon to do this. we have always been, but unfortunately we have found that at our last two conferences - the chairman of the committee was right - the europeans in the council were not on track. we must admit that we are now fortunately invited to a country where there are also problems. that is why poland has an exceptionally great opportunity, despite its own problems. i don't want to list them here, but i mean, old coal plants, heavy industry -- that's a challenge. i don't want to dispute that at all. we must therefore see that we can nevertheless get a positive impulse to really show europe's strategy. i think we can do that. i believe that poland will provide a good model. because what we learned is that whenever the hosts were innovative and hopeful, there were good strategies in these conferences. commissioner, i think we need a to do list so that not everyone here is talking about other points, but so that we europeans can really find out in the next two or three months: what is our point? where are we going? how do we get there?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the doha climate conference has not produced much of substance on climate change. the role model claimed by the eu has no credibility. the coalition that the eu formed in durban with small island states and others was no longer there in doha. the 20% reduction target negotiated by the eu at cop 18 has already been achieved. there was no agreement within the eu on key negotiating issues in doha, and the self-proclaimed main climate protection instrument, emissions trading, is on the verge of collapse. the only way the eu can advance the global climate negotiations is to show its own climate ambition. this means raising the reduction target to at least 30% by 2020 and proposing three new targets for 2030 as soon as possible. how does the commission intend to build up pressure for negotiations at cop 19 in warsaw if the eu's contribution to climate protection is not credible?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you look at the international climate negotiations, you can be sober. the need for science, which we have also agreed to do, is unfortunately a long way off. we had expectations before copenhagen which have not been met, and that is why we must of course be realistic. but i don't think that realism is resignation. if we have a serious problem with climate change -- and i'm convinced of that, even as someone who has had a scientific education, and i know in medicine we often have far fewer scientists coming to a consensus, and we have to keep in mind that there is virtually no area of science where the consensus is as big as on climate change -- then we can't just sit back and wait. i think it is not a good agenda for the european elections to say that we have a huge problem, we have tried to solve it, but unfortunately it has not worked. we must also - although it is difficult - show ways of solving the problem. i would like to make three specific requests to the council and the commission for the next few months. first, you grab john kerry at the honors. he was the big climate guy, he brought legislation to the senate, and now he has to take responsibility as secretary of state and he has to take risks and he has to take the brakes off inside the administration or he loses credibility. this must be made clear in every conversation between the european union and the americans. secondly, strengthen the alliance - which was made in durban and which was weaker in doha - between the european union and the developing countries. this is an opportunity and it must be strengthened. thirdly, this concerns all of us: we must make the preparations at home. we need to be prepared now in climate policy for there to be a 2021. that is why i am personally in favour of backloading, and i am personally in favour of setting three clear targets for 2030 as soon as possible, realistic but ambitious.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on legal education and training court coordinators by klaus-heiner lehne, luigi berlinguer, cecilia wikström, eva lichtenberger, francesco enrico speroni, tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000186/2012 b7-0112/2013) (2012/2864(rsp)).
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 february 2013, at 12 noon. in the meantime, for those of you who might be interested, it's 0-0 for france against germany.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the use of traditional terms for wines from the united states (2013/2519 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. wine is a very sensitive product. wine is a cultural and economic good. the european wine market organization is an attempt to take account of regional and global challenges. the common organization of the market in wine is often very detailed here because of the very specific challenges. so too with the traditional names. these names stand for quality, for regionality, and they are confidence-building measures with a clear message to the consumer. what the french and the luxembourgers call their château or clos, the germans call their vineyard. terms such as château, clos and weingut are deliberately linked to the requirement that these wines come from a single holding and have been produced exclusively on that holding. consumers appreciate these conditions. for example, a château stands for wine tradition and for the region from which the wine comes. this connection is established automatically. the term "winery" is not currently being discussed. perhaps it is also because the german language is not so wine-friendly. it is and it was right to ban the term "champagne" in germany at that time. here too, the publicity was a means of profit. today, everyone knows that german sparkling wine is on a par with the market. the terms of the wine ordinance may be used in any language only under the conditions laid down therein. why should wines from overseas, from non-french-speaking countries, be marketed under french names? the commission is called upon to ensure clarity and truth. our regulations must not be relaxed by third countries. they are an integral part of the wine designation law.
thank you very much, commissioner. now that we've talked about wine, i hope you can enjoy a glass of the same. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank you, and in particular mr casa and of course mr gunnar hökmark, for their report and thorough treatment of this proposal intended to combat vat fraud more effectively in europe. before addressing the specific amendments, i would just like to say a few words on the fight against vat tax fraud. let me first highlight that this commission initiative needs to be seen in a broader context. on 6 december 2012 the commission adopted a comprehensive and ambitious action plan on fighting tax fraud and tax evasion. the fight against vat fraud, and notably the so-called carousel fraud, forms an important part of this action plan. the action plan on fighting tax fraud and tax evasion explores a number of new areas for improvement, enhancing administrative cooperation with third countries and tackling new fraud as quickly as possible through the creation of a quick reaction mechanism. this quick reaction mechanism is intended to combat sudden and massive fraud schemes that cannot be stopped via traditional control and enforcement means. under this mechanism, derogating measures would be granted to member states within one month and for a maximum period of one year. discussions in council have unfortunately not been conclusive so far, notably because some member states fear a loss of sovereignty because of the use of implementing powers to be granted to the commission. instead they proposed a much longer procedure – at least five months – where implementing powers would be exercised by the council. in our view, this is clearly not the speedy response that the eu needs to tackle this type of fraud. let me remind you that, in the case of vat on co2 allowances, eur 5 billion were lost in just a couple of weeks. i do not really understand either how tax sovereignty can be affected by quickly allowing the commission to permit a member state to safeguard its tax revenues, instead of it having to wait for the unanimous agreement of 26 other member states in the council. against this background, your support for our proposal is very welcome. i will now turn to the most important amendments. as regards the amendments which impose a reporting obligation on the application of the quick reaction mechanism – amendments 5 and 16 – i can inform you that the commission can accept this principle and is willing to defend this view in the council, where this obligation is already included in the latest compromise text. on the other hand, the commission is not in a position to accept the other amendments, notably on involving the other institutions and consulting the relevant stakeholders – amendments 13, 14 and 8. particularly from a practical point of view this would not be feasible, as it would delay the decision-making process and therefore undermine the main objective of the proposal, which is to counter sudden and massive fraud situations by providing a member state with a legal base to apply derogating anti-fraud measures within a timeframe of one month. thank you again for your strong support and for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr david casa, on his excellent work. the report calls for the introduction of a rapid reaction mechanism to deal with serious cases of vat fraud. in times like these, when public finances are under increasing pressure, we must not only focus on reducing expenditure but also on optimising revenue. this new enforcement measure can certainly help. finally, we are talking about billions of euros lost to european economies every year through tax fraud. the new mechanism is intended to be used in particularly serious cases of fraud, when regular enforcement measures are no longer sufficient. the commission is also called upon to take a more rapid, stronger and more targeted approach in the future when it detects evidence of vat fraud. the role of the commission remains crucial and it is therefore important that the european parliament sends a clear signal for swift action. however, i also think it is important that the commission submits a report to the european parliament and the council in 2014, which will then assess for the first time the functioning of this rapid reaction mechanism. the commission will also consult representatives of the sectors most affected and all stakeholders. the mechanisms, it is clear to me, must be effective. they must not lead to a disproportionate increase in the cost of implementation, and hit those who have always paid vat in accordance with the law, and - i would like to emphasise this - the directive must be targeted at tax evaders. i am confident that the rapid reaction mechanism will prove to be a successful measure. however, we still need to do more to combat tax fraud in europe in a sustainable way. we are all thinking of returning to sound public finances, and of a more stable europe.
in writing. - corporate social responsibility the term may be new german, the idea is not: in my home country of bavaria, in particular, corporate social responsibility is a tradition and a home. europe cannot and must not dictate to us. it's what the customers want that counts. politics can only support all this, not prescribe it. i am against any attempt to try to regulate everything and everyone from brussels again, instead of learning from the best examples. not with us, not with csu! the reporting requirements for smes, for example, undermine the voluntary nature of the measures. it would be the key to the successful development of social entrepreneurship in recent years. the joint approach of the european commission and the left here in the european parliament to introduce mandatory csr measures through the back door is equally wrong. we in bavaria do not demand csr we promote it! nearly 800 companies are active in the csr platform "white and blue economy". smes benefited from the 'social responsibility in smes' programme. almost 40 million euro of eu funding is being used nationwide. responsibility is a tradition here. we know that csr pays off! social responsibility is an important factor in competition and location. without bureaucracy or regulations!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, there is much debate about why companies or individuals do not want to pay taxes, even though the law requires it. but i think it's very important to clarify that this is not a chivalrous offense. systematic tax fraud, particularly in relation to vat, which must be regulated and collected between member states, is not a trivial offence and we must oppose it vigorously. so this is a very, very important report and it is going in the right direction. i was therefore very happy to agree. secondly, i think that there is still a lot to be done, and i simply ask the member states to do two things: firstly, to make the method of collecting or levying vat more uniform and secondly, to improve considerably the exchange of data between member states. because when there is a lack of data exchange, it is always a loophole for those who do not want to pay taxes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am always angry at those who spend money - and you could say that without an efficiency check they are always the good guys - and who always want to call those who want to pursue sound fiscal policy as thrifty foxes and imply to them that they would ruin any economic development. i have agreed to the report precisely because we rejected several of the proposals in the final vote, and so we did not give in to the populist zeitgeist, but once again made it clear that sound fiscal policy is the crucial prerequisite for economic development and growth. that means that even when you spend money, you always have to look at efficiency and make sure that the money you spend actually falls on economic soil and doesn't hinder economic development. in other words, sound fiscal policy is the prerequisite for economic growth.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. economic growth is not an end in itself but requires an economic echo that benefits the individual. unemployment is a destabilising factor in society and it was therefore very important that parliament should deal with the problem today. i am also glad and pleased that parliament has not given simple answers but has shed light on the depth of the problem. i think it is very important to say that, first of all, we must fight unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and, secondly, we must also, of course, make increasing use of the european market as a whole. we are citizens of the european union and we should also see the european union as an opportunity in this sense. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i must say that parliament has made a wise decision here too. that is why i was able to agree to the report.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr somphone is one of the great personalities of a country which was once the most peaceful country in asia, until it was torn apart by civil war into three wings with three princes at the head: one communist, one anti-communist and one neutralist. since then it has been deepening in crisis through war, corruption and dictatorship, and today we are dealing with post-communist or late-communist structures, behind which is international predatory capitalism - a very unpalatable mixture and a lot of crime. that's why it's imperative that this case be solved. the country needs people like mr somphone to heal, to return to democracy, to find peace again. that is why mr somphone's action is not just a human rights case, but a matter of urgency for the future of laos. we're gonna be working this case very hard.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i want to stress very clearly that the disappearance of sombath somphone is a most worrying example of the practice of arbitrary arrest by elements of the police. the world is watching this case very closely. i urge the government of laos to do its utmost to find and release sombath somphone. i call on high representative lady ashton to make it absolutely clear that the outcome of this case will be a benchmark for the rule of law in laos and that it will be crucial for the judgment on whether or not laos qualifies for an enhancement in our relations, including trade relations. i welcome the fact that our colleagues from the asean parliaments have already undertaken a fact-finding mission to laos and i call on the asean human rights commission to set up immediately a committee to investigate the events surrounding the enforced disappearance of sombath somphone. finally, we will be watching closely in future because laos has to understand that we will make the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as environmental and labour standards, a precondition for further relations between us and them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank all the members who have brought the subject of zimbabwe back to the house. zimbabwe, formerly rhodesia, was once the grain storehouse of southern africa. today, a socialist dictator has managed to turn zimbabwe into a famine zone. but the hunger for freedom in zimbabwe is even greater, and i have a question for you, commissioner hedegaard. it is well known that the republic of south africa has good relations with mugabe. how much influence is the commission exerting on south africa to put pressure on zimbabwe, on the government there, to ensure that human rights are better respected? the human rights situation in zimbabwe is unbearable, and the key is in south africa, so that the mugabe government can really achieve something. i would ask you to take action in this direction.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. pakistan is one of the last countries, along with nigeria and afghanistan, to have a high prevalence of the deadly poliovirus. in a joint effort, unicef, who, national authorities and volunteers have been working for months to contain the danger in cities and provinces. but these life-saving health measures are opposed by extremist groups. they spread lies about alleged espionage, the sterilization of women, the use of poisons. they are thus creating mistrust among the population and making it more difficult to provide humanitarian aid, especially to people in poor areas. we condemn in the strongest terms the attacks and assassination attempts on these vaccination teams. the safety of national and international organisations is extremely at risk, and the work has had to be suspended - a severe setback in the fight against polio. we welcome the action taken by the pakistani authorities: information campaigns which must be extended, information talks with tribal leaders and police protection for the remaining vaccination teams.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 7 february 2013. ladies and gentlemen, before i get to the agenda, i have a very pleasant announcement to make. on march 11, 1963, at exactly 5:05 p.m., as the birth certificate states, a joyous event occurred. according to his birth certificate, our colleague marc tarabella was born on march 11, 1963 at 5:05 p.m. it means that it's his birthday precisely at this moment. congratulations, my dear fellow! (applause from the centre)
the minutes of 7 february 2013 are approved. * * * * * * * * *
i shall try to sum up what was on the agenda. the events you have described in connection with the rejection of colleagues by the moroccan authorities were the subject of intense discussion at the conference of presidents last thursday. the conference of presidents has asked mr brok, in his capacity as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, to examine the matter in the committee on foreign affairs and to contact the moroccan authorities. i assume mr. brok has already done that. in any event, he informed me that he was already in contact with the deputy foreign minister of morocco on this matter.
last friday was international women's day. equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the european union. unfortunately, this equality still exists only on paper. women in the eu receive on average about 16% less salary or wages than men for the same work. women are more affected by the economic crisis than men, they lose their jobs more quickly and are more likely to take on insecure jobs. violence against women still exists at an intolerable level, with grave consequences for the victims, for the families, for society as a whole. women are also still significantly underrepresented in political and business leadership. all of the above points show that we must not give up in the fight for gender equality. but let me draw your attention to one of the most dramatic problems that i and i believe many of you know about in the wake of international women's day: more than 100 million women, especially girls, are affected by fgm worldwide. these mutilations are not acceptable or justifiable under any circumstances. they are an attack on the physical integrity of women and a violation of their dignity and fundamental rights. they are a human rights violation that none of us can accept. we must respond to such practices with a zero-tolerance policy. we urgently need to create appropriate instruments to protect young girls in particular, whether in the eu or outside. i think we must take this fight much more decisively. ladies and gentlemen, let me add that we have another terrible news to take note of today. over the weekend, seven hostages from italy, england, greece and lebanon were killed in nigeria by an islamist terrorist group called ansaru. i believe i speak for you when i say that the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms these acts of terrorist violence. our thoughts and condolences go out to the families and friends of the victims.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on [thursday, 7 march 2013] in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. no amendment was requested. the work schedule is thus established. the
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been preparing four important enlargement reports for months in the committee on foreign affairs, including the sensitive issue of serbia and kosovo. and these reports have been on the agenda for wednesday afternoons for months. delegations from governments and parliaments, professional journalists and diplomats have travelled to discuss the issue. then, on thursday afternoon - without the groups being informed in advance - the conference of presidents removed this item from the agenda because each group chairman had a proposal in accordance with the system of the oriental bazaar. finally, it was agreed that we would put everything from egypt to ukraine on the agenda, and that the enlargement reports would be postponed until april. i would like to protest against this procedure and appeal to the conference of presidents to work seriously in future! (applause from the centre)
i'm not going to tell you. as a longtime participant in the conference of presidents, i have to tell you, please don't insult the persian bazaar. there were a number of serious reasons for this change of agenda, which i cannot and will not discuss here. but it is what it is. the reports have been deferred to the next plenary session. but we take your protest to heart.
mr audy, please! you know that there was an extraordinary open conference of presidents, where mr van rompuy presented the results of the european council immediately after the council. i do not know whether a debate on wednesday would have produced any further findings than those already presented at the open conference of presidents. i am also convinced that the president of the council will be preparing the council meeting in brussels on thursday next wednesday. i shall discuss this again with mr van rompuy. we know how dedicated and passionate you are in fighting to get him here. i must say, however, mr audy, you are relatively alone in this fight.
mr gallagher, that is not the subject of this debate. you cannot simply take the floor on a matter which is not on the agenda now. by the way, you've been in contact with me about the website. you're welcome to discuss the gaelic site with me, you wrote to me. i'll listen to you, too, and i'm sure we'll find a solution.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by elisabeth morin-chartier, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality and women's rights (2012/2301 ((ini)) (a7-0048/2013), the report by kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eradication of gender stereotypes in the eu (2012/2116 ((ini)) (a7-0401/2012) and the report by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women in north africa (2012/2102 ((ini)) (a7-0047/2013).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this debate to mark international women’s day on 8 march is one in a long line of debates. we sometimes forget that gender equality is one of the fundamental rights on which the european union is based. it was first enshrined in the treaties of rome in 1957. so it is not a new invention but work in progress. sometimes we forget that today there a great deal of laws in our member states that guarantee equal rights, at least on paper if not in reality; and you know very well that reality does not always follow the text of the law. very many national laws were created on the basis of european directives at a time when nobody thought it would be necessary to have laws in the member states on equal treatment for men and women. so we have made the eu’s founding principles a tangible reality in european national law. this is something we can and should be proud of: gender equality is a european achievement. having said that, we all know that there have been positive developments: 60% of university graduates are women, for instance, and 60% of women are in work. another very good figure which is hardly ever quoted is that three quarters – a big majority – of the one million jobs which have been created in recent years have gone to women. i started with the positive elements because there are so many problems to speak about. it has been said again and again: women earn an average of 16% less than men and the employment rate for women is still much lower than the rate for men. madam rapporteur, you are absolutely right that the more children are born, the fewer women are active. and the more children are born, the less women earn, and the greater the probability of female poverty in higher age brackets. so we have a very important problem to address. in reply to the question on whether the economic crisis is having an impact on the situation of women in the economy, my answer is of course it has: wage freezes, decreases, job cuts – especially in the public sector – affect many women and their families. that is why it is so important to integrate the gender dimension into all policies and all decisions, including economic policies and the allocation of the budget. the chair and the members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) know perfectly well that at the beginning of their mandate all commissioners signed the women’s charter. this was a pledge that all commissioners, not only the commissioner for equal opportunities, would introduce equality into their policy areas. for instance, in the european semester the commission closely monitors factors which impact on female labour market participation. childcare is one example, but there are many others, such as our tax and benefit systems, which just push women into inactivity or into part-time work, which leads to female poverty in higher age brackets. we are looking at this and pointing to these questions in our relationship with the member states. there are the employment guidelines which reflect this comprehensive approach, stressing the importance of combating gender inequality and promoting work-life balance. there is the cohesion policy: structural funds are supporting member states in their efforts to provide high-quality childcare services. there are also the social funds, which invest a lot into all this. mr rübig, i have heard your warning. your colleague is right. look at what the member states have done in the mff on the special funds dedicated to women, for instance, and on combating violence and similar questions. just have a look and start a discussion on this question. concerning gender stereotypes, you know that the commission has brought together experts to analyse this issue and to exchange practices with a view to promoting non-stereotypical education and to raising teachers’ awareness on gender roles in books and in teaching. there are also comenius projects which aim at eliminating gender stereotypes. the examples are everywhere. we also have the equal pay day, which also aims to raise awareness on these stereotypes, which are all-pervading. female work is valued less, as we know, than work done by a man; even when it is exactly the same! we need a cultural change here, and mainly in business. this is one of the reasons why i have submitted the directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of companies listed on stock exchanges and related measures. it is about promoting competence, talent and transparency, because this talent is currently being blocked because it is female. please help, because this cannot continue. parliament, please go ahead and come up with something on this file before summer. then there is the situation of women in north africa. i think we all watched with great attention and felt great relief at what was going on with the uprisings in the region. we saw so many committed women rallying around this call for change. but not everything is rosy, because we have seen very many worrying signs and vice-president lady ashton always keeps these issues high on her agenda in all the countries she visits. for instance in tunisia, where the more traditional part of society is questioning women’s rights, and the new constitution might be detrimental to women. the same is happening in egypt – not only the abuses in tahrir, but also the troubling provisions in the constitution and discrimination in daily life. there is also the issue of widespread female genital mutilation. i would like to thank all the parliamentarians who have joined the campaign to raise awareness of female genital mutilation. i organised a round table in order to launch the zero-tolerance movement and also in response to the issues raised by the european institute for gender equality. they have put on the table a very important study on the size of the problem of female genital mutilation in europe. on the basis of that study we have launched a public consultation to gather views on the best ways to develop measures to fight female genital mutilation. the good news here is that i have still been able to secure funding for this: eur 3.7 million to support member states’ awareness-raising activities and eur 11.4 million for ngos and others working with victims. so things are happening. i would also like to tell you that last friday the council of justice ministers made a very nice gift to the women of europe. it has endorsed the european protection order in civil matters, so women who are protected against violence in their member state can now take this protection with them when they go to another member state. that is good news. we all – the member states, the governments, the ngos, and parliament –need this good news and i know you are with us on this. fortunately you are with us and you will make your voice heard, because no matter where in the world – whether in tunisia, egypt or in the eu – gender equality is about empowerment and democracy. it is also about economic development. it is a tragedy for the individual and a loss for society at large when we waste wisdom, and when we refuse to break with inequality, be it in africa or in europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the committee on employment and social affairs has looked very closely at the report on the impact of the economic crisis on women's rights and has drawn up its own opinion. we have also analysed the impact of the crisis, in particular the austerity measures in the public sector, on services, and found that although many men lost their jobs at the beginning of the crisis, especially in the manufacturing sector, more and more women have been affected by the crisis, especially through the austerity budget. there are also effects on the provision of appropriate services for women, on appropriate care facilities for women - and also for men, of course - and these are precisely the effects that we repeatedly criticise. discrimination against women is nothing new. they work in many low participation sectors, in the informal sector, part-time and of course have serious consequences for pension entitlements. we would like to draw your attention to the following: we want to make it clear that the crisis must not be used to ultimately fall back on gender issues. we call for gender budgeting to be enforced, particularly in the context of the budget debate.
in writing. up to 70% of women workers are employed in the public sector. the current crisis has had a huge impact on women's employment situation through cuts and job cuts in this sector. the full impact of these developments will, however, only be felt in the long term on the labour market. the loss of a job is an existential problem for many women - the risk of not finding a new job is much higher than for men. the reduction in the general family allowance, the allowance for single parents, maternity leave, social benefits, education and childcare facilities is aggravating the problem dramatically. women in poverty have become a reality in europe that can no longer be ignored. i call on the commission to ensure that the member states do not put their cuts in the wrong places. the reconciliation of family and work must be supported, not hindered, especially now, in the crisis. we need investment in jobs and childcare, as well as in education and social services. the governments of the member states must realise that unilateral austerity is dragging us deeper into the crisis, especially when it is carried out on the backs of groups of people who actually need our support!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the roadmap 2050, we wanted to start a debate that will take us into the next decades and show the ways in which the europeanisation of energy policy and the europeanisation of climate policy can have a continuation, a lasting future. there is probably no sector in which the need for long-term planning is greater than in the energy sector. energy, that is to say, the provision of raw materials oil sources, gas sources, coal, biomass. energy, that is to say production capacity wind farms, solar farms, coal-fired power plants, gas-fired power plants, geothermal energy, nuclear power plants. energy, that is to say, storage facilities and storage technologies. energy is research. energy, that is to say transport infrastructure networks and pipelines. energy, which means investing in greater energy efficiency. all these measures do not involve a planning period of five to ten years. in agriculture, it takes three to five years. when you buy a machine, the depreciation period is eight to ten years. you buy a car to use it for 10 to 12 years, a coal-fired power plant for 30 years, a gas-fired power plant for 20 years, solar parks, wind parks for at least 20 years, grid infrastructure for 30 years or more, nuclear power plants for 40, 50 or 60 years. (interruption of the debate) i am quoting from reality, madam president. (interruption by claude turmes) i am not going to go into that. this is not about ideology. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it's over 40 years old. i shall be sending you a letter in the next few days to inform you of the countries in the world where the period of authorization for the operation of nuclear power stations is being extended to 40 years, to 50 years, to 60 years, including european countries. i'm quoting the facts. so we need long-term planning certainty. the fact is, 2020 was yesterday. for investors, 2020 is history. and that's why -- we have a huge investment deficit in energy -- we need common roadmaps for where the energy world is going to be in 2030, 2040, 2050. in each case, we have identified three "no regrets options" for different scenarios, three objectives. investing in an intelligent energy infrastructure is a must, not a disadvantage. a higher share of renewable energy brings far more advantages than disadvantages. and investing in energy efficiency improvements is also an unquestionable right of way. we now want to continue our work on the basis of your constructive recommendations and your report. what's the matter? it is about whether we are setting common european binding targets for 2030 and if so, which ones. because one thing is clear: if 20-20-20 is not followed, we will be back to a purely national, fragmented energy and climate future. the green paper which the commission will present to you at the end of march will therefore be the basis for this discussion. the question is: are we creating a european understanding for a new co2 emission reduction target? it is a question of whether we need to go further, or whether reducing co2 emissions is enough. i think that reducing co2 emissions is important. but i still advocate that a pragmatic additional target for mandatory shares of renewable energy in the european energy mix be formulated and adopted alongside it. now, if you've been around for a while and look back to 2007, you know that we managed to get all the member states on board. there was unanimity in the council. in the end, there was unanimity in the council, and we need that too. why would you do that? as long as article 194 applies, which gives the member states exclusive competence for technology - that is, member states and their governments and parliaments are solely responsible for nuclear power, yes or no, coal, how long, how much, and the promotion of renewable energies - as long as 20 or 22 member states cannot impose a common higher target on renewable energies on other member states. we need all of them. this is clearly the treaty law of the european union. so the exciting challenge will be how to take everyone with us. because i predict that the climate has changed significantly in 2013. a number of member states no longer want european standards. a number of member states say we have other concerns. and i have the ambition to work with you -- and i'm building on that -- over the next few months to develop a very constructive debate that can lead to a continuation of the 20-20-20 values for the next decade, where 30-30-30 alone seems a little bit uncreative. i want to hear your feedback on where you want to go with renewable energy. as long as we are in the first generation of biofuels, i cannot set a higher target. i think that more than 10% is premature in the present situation of production, but in the area of heat and electricity, a clever sectoral approach with a higher target value seems promising to me. in concrete terms, i am thinking of considering and adopting a next target for the european electricity market, after we reach around 32% renewable energy for electricity in 2020, but one which must include all of us if it is to be effective. you have made very good remarks on the subject of foreign energy policy and relations with our supplier countries. i think the shale gas revolution is going to go far beyond the energy sector. if the americans are gas-rich in 2017 and largely oil-rich in 2020, their relationship with iraq, kuwait, libya, venezuela, nigeria and the central asian region will be different than it is today. we europeans will have to do more than we have done in the past to ensure stable supply relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, a heartfelt thank you to mrs tzavela! it was a very pleasant form of cooperation. this issue is about a different approach to political debate. i liked that the most. that the commission is presenting different scenarios and forcing us to think about the consequences of decision a or decision b or decision c. perhaps this has also helped to prevent us from agreeing again in a competition of new figures and setting of objectives, but has really made an attempt to facilitate a materialization and to conduct a more realistic debate on the basis of such scenarios. this is not the end of the process, but perhaps an essential part of it is that you do not make an "olympia" of goals, but try to work out facts by facts. and that includes not putting taboos in the landscape, but having all the variants, all the alternatives in play. i therefore think it is right that the question of shale gas should be included in this scenario. the questions of how we can supply industry in the future, whether we have enough energy, whether we have energy at affordable prices, what impact this has on the environment cannot be confined to one great, big project, but must be seen in a cross-sectional way. i think it is right that we have been careful not to agree on a new set of figures, but have pointed out that when objectives are set, they can have an impact on other objectives and that this may even help us to achieve the opposite of what we actually want to achieve. so i'm grateful for this intermediate step, for these scenarios. this is another step, it is not the end of the process, and i look forward to the green paper.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on risk and safety assessments of nuclear power plants in the european union (stress tests) by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000183/2012 - b7-0108/2013) (2012/2830(rsp)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the motion for a resolution on the pan-european nuclear power plant stress tests is a declaration of bankruptcy of eu policy towards the nuclear companies. after the super-gau in fukushima two years ago, the stress tests were alibi tests for the continued operation of the nuclear mill. instead of shutting down the most dangerous nuclear power stations, such as fessenheim or cattenom, and ensuring the safety of the population, nuclear safety is subordinated to the economic viability of the power stations and the profits of the nuclear companies. in addition, euratom and the ebrd are negotiating with ukraine to grant two loans totalling eur 600 million for the continued operation of ukrainian nuclear reactors. after chernobyl and fukushima, i call on the commission to rule out a new catastrophe scenario and to turn the tap on the nuclear companies! the stress tests must be the first step towards a european-wide phase-out of nuclear power.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the scale of the fukushima disaster two years ago has changed our sense of security and brought home to us the importance of our shared responsibility. the threat of nuclear power does not allow for a risk shared by member states. it affects all of us, directly, fundamentally and life threateningly. in health and environmental matters, we believe that the precautionary principle is the measure of all things. but what about our principles when it comes to cheap energy? the european union must take responsibility for a threat that affects us all. we need full cooperation across borders. the neighbourhood of a nuclear power plant must be involved in all decisions across borders. it's very simple. we in trier and luxembourg must know what is happening in cattenom. we must not only be informed about safety plans, we must also be involved in shaping them and be partly responsible for them. i hope for all of us that this resolution will take us one step further in our shared responsibility!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to thank you for the very factual advice this evening and also for the critical evaluation of the stress test results! the stress test has shown that there is intensive cooperation between the national supervisory authorities and us on various points of dispute, which is intended to serve the cause. and we intend to continue the work: european teams, mutual exchange of experience. and in these weeks, in particular, we are in very close contact with ensreg because i want to use their input for our proposal for a nuclear safety directive. this includes the competence and independence of the national supervisory authorities. if you look at how national core supervision is structured in the member states - in the ministry and outside - what expertise they have where there is independence - i.e. no ministerial authority, no expert supervision, but complete independence - you will see that we have different levels of supervisory authority in the member states and i want to propose in our directive that the highest standard of supervisory independence becomes an obligation for all member states. we do not want a european supervision body a european nuclear energy supervision is not necessary but we want common european rules on how national supervision in each member state must be further developed in terms of quality, competence and independence. the french system of supervision is particularly independent and exemplary. and with all the criticism , the stress test has already provided some insight into the state of nuclear power stations, particularly in france. you know that european neighbours in luxembourg and aachen are more concerned than ever about the state of nuclear power stations in france. and we want to continue on the path of transparency, knowing that article 194 is the law on the distribution of powers. the decision on nuclear power, and how long it should be part of the energy mix of a member state, was and is taken by national governments and national parliaments. we will then present to you at the end of april our commission proposal for the revision of the european security directive. and in september we will be presenting our legislative proposal on liability and compulsory insurance for potential damage to nuclear power stations, in which we will be proposing a minimum level of insurance for a common european level of damage. it is clear, however, that a majority in the council is not automatically guaranteed. the stress test was useful, given that national action plans are now deciding on multi-billion euro rearmament measures. there's gonna be retrofits now that wouldn't have happened without the stress test. and these upgrades are for the sake of greater european security, which i think we must understand across borders. thank you very much. we shall then meet again later in the year with the two directives. i am counting on their support and hope that they will give me the backing for a european security philosophy as far-reaching as possible!
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on industry, research and energy, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 march 2013. (the vote was then postponed to thursday, 14 march 2013) written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr kriton arsenis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use activities (com2012) 0093 - c7-0074/2012 - 2012/0042 ((cod)) (a7-0317/2012) and by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the system for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related information (com2011) 0789 - c7-0433/2011 - 2011/0372 (cod)) (a7-019/2012).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is a real heartfelt debate about the right way to go about the climate debate, and we are doing that. i agree with the compromise, but only because the pace has been slowed. emissions from agricultural land, arable land and grassland are not included in the calculation of lulucf factors. the commission's proposal to present national action plans on lulucf activities now was also an exaggerated demand. a new global climate agreement will be negotiated by 2017 at the latest. it would be a false signal to take a special path of hasty obedience, which is not balanced or realistic, especially in the agricultural sector. the aim now is to establish fair and objective accounting systems at international level. we must be careful not to create a bureaucratic monster that will gradually become its own master and set new standards, from which there is no turning back. the complex models available to calculate the exchange of carbon between soil and atmosphere do not take into account the real impact on agriculture. agriculture has to fulfil a variety of functions. it must contribute directly and indirectly to the food security of a growing world population and is an important sector for economic and social development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures. this may lead to a shift away from farming. the value of fertile land is rising, and competition for land resources is going to increase. do we really want all this? i'll put a question mark on that.
member of the commission. − madam president, most of the interventions hovered around two or three points, and i will try and reply to them. first of all the sanctions: i agree that even though the legislation we have is based on directives – and we do not have a regulation as we have in environmental criminal law where specific sanctions are specified in the regulation – we should be more specific in the directives when we are drafting them. this is why i believe that it should be made extremely clear in such a sensitive issue that crime does not pay. i said that enforcement is in the hands of the member states and that the commission has no control, as mr davies said, over the decisions of the courts and tribunals which implement the legislation. i have heard of cases of meat producers whose licences were not suspended even after having been found guilty of certain criminal actions. so i believe that the financial criminal sanctions should be equal to the financial gain made from committing the crime; otherwise crime will pay. if the benefit received from violating eu legislation is much higher than the penalty that might be received then these violations will continue. when i have said in the past and even today that the fact that there is a law does not mean that it will not be violated – in the same way as we have a law against robbery but i am sure that right now somewhere in the european union someone is robbing someone or something – i was not being complacent, saying that once a law exists you can expect it to be violated. i am just trying to give a realistic point of view that nothing can be perfect. but this does not mean that we should not do our utmost to make the penalties a deterrent and the inspections as effective as possible. the inspection system can be improved, but the way it is structured has to remain the same. it is not only food safety legislation or food labelling legislation that is implemented by member states; all legislation in the european union is implemented by the member states. concerning labelling it is first of all implemented by the food producer, who is primarily responsible for labelling on food products being honest and not deceptive. then there is the control system by the member states, which have their national authorities. i would remind this assembly that it was the irish enforcement agency which conducted an investigation into the cheapest beef burgers in a supermarket, and it was through that inspection that it was discovered that some beef products labelled as beef meat contained 80% horsemeat. so it was a member state, not through a report but through a random inspection of the cheapest meat products on the market, which discovered the scandal towards the end of january. then we have the commission which, through its food and veterinary office in ireland, inspects the inspectors to see that the control system works. this mostly concerns food safety issues, because i would remind this parliament that dna testing for the animal species of meat products is a relatively recent thing. before, all inspections used to be done purely on the food safety issue. it was only through the scientific development of dna testing even on food that we started testing food not only for safety purposes but also to see whether the label reflects the ingredients of the meat products themselves. also, as mrs mcavan said, it is important to have unannounced inspections, and in the new legislation we will try and put forward a proposal to oblige member states not to announce the inspections but to have random unannounced inspections along the food chain to improve the inspection of the food chain itself. on the question of country of origin labelling, i can give you five reasons put forward by member states in the past – because this has been discussed in the past – why this should not be introduced, and i can give you another five reasons from another group of member states which oppose this country of origin labelling. some have switched from one side to the other because of this issue. please understand that this is not an easy matter. i have an open mind on this issue, but please do understand that there are issues pertaining to costs and there are issues pertaining to the complexity of the subject, because it is one thing labelling fresh beef and quite another thing labelling different meats from different places of origin which are processed in one meat product. one has to be very careful not to attack the single market. there should be no elements of protectionism in this legislation. but, as i said, i have an open mind on this. i note that there is a swelling number of member states who are in favour of this legislation and as soon as i have the report i will accordingly act immediately and swiftly. it is important not to undermine the internal market through this scandal and, in reply to certain comments about reintroducing barriers to trade owing to this food issue on labelling, i would remind the house that fraud is not exclusive to any one particular country. recently we discovered, or the national authorities discovered, meat from the united kingdom which was being exported to france which was illegal because it was mechanised beef, which is illegal under eu legislation. the internal market is a cornerstone of the european union, it is something positive, but when you have an internal market, without any barriers, of 500 million consumers, one of the disadvantages this can cause is that the moment someone violates a law in one country the ripple effect affects other countries as well. however, this is like schengen. the fact that sometimes schengen is abused by persons with criminal records moving from one country to another does not mean that we should not have schengen. the internal market is something positive, but because we have an internal market we should have stricter legislation, stricter penalties and better inspections. so i agree with all the members of parliament that we would be putting our heads in the sand if we were to say that this scandal has not rocked consumer confidence in recent weeks. clearly we must make every effort to learn the lessons of this regrettable episode and do our utmost to restore confidence in our food supply as soon as possible. after all, most of the legislation which we sometimes have in different areas is the result of lessons learnt through incidences, through scandals and through issues, and we cannot accept that a few rogue operators can do serious damage to the way the european public views the entire food chain. so in conclusion, madam president, i look forward to working with parliament towards our shared aim of ensuring as far as possible that similar fraudulent practices do not arise in the future.
on behalf of the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in fact, mr grech asked me to represent him today. he is supposed to be the deputy prime minister of malta and of course he has a lot of work to do. he regrets that he cannot speak in person because this subject was very important to him and he really cared about it. in fact, there are problems for consumers as well as for entrepreneurs and traders who operate across borders. and many citizens also have fears: what happens if i buy something online in another state and there's a problem with the product or service? how do i get my right? this is one of the big obstacles that makes many people hesitate to buy something across borders. that is why i think it is very important that we give citizens a means of resolving disputes, an alternative to legal proceedings, so that they can also obtain their rights quickly and comfortably, as far as it is possible to speak of comfortably. this is a win-win situation for both the retailer and the consumer. with this adr system, as it is called, we have the opportunity to create a neutral, transparent, effective, independent, fast and fair dispute settlement procedure. all these keywords are of great importance in this context. with this system, which we hope will be adopted today - and i trust it - we will have a result within 90 days. this is very important for the citizens. secondly, we must ensure that the system is also cheap, preferably free of charge for citizens, so that they can have easier access to a conciliation system. and we have also made sure in this law that a procedure before such a dispute settlement body does not mean that the way to court should it still be necessary is blocked or prevented. that's one of the great achievements. i hope that many citizens will also be informed of this possibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind. that is why it will be necessary to inform them transparently and quickly. the commission too: through a website, but also through other existing information channels, so that citizens can learn about these possibilities. and that's why the law also provides that traders must inform citizens that this procedure exists for the dispute, when consumers and traders can not agree. ladies and gentlemen, i think louis grech and mrs thun and hohenstein have done a very good job. the trilogue procedure has shown that the result is indeed a great added value for the citizens, a gain from european policy, and i believe that this is the best we can do for our citizens!
member of the commission. − madam president, just over a year ago the commission put on the table two legislative proposals. one was a directive on consumer alternative dispute resolution (adr), and the other was a regulation on consumer online dispute resolution (odr). today, we stand on the verge of a first reading agreement, and may i say that it was a very swift process. both parliament and the council have worked very hard on these proposals. let me heartily congratulate the two rapporteurs, ms thun and mr grech. i phoned mr grech yesterday to congratulate him on his electoral success. he was extremely sad not to be here, but i am sure that he is very happy with his personal electoral performance, being elected from two constituencies in malta, and probably tomorrow he will be appointed deputy prime minister, so i also congratulated him on this possibility, because i occupied this post three months ago in my own country. let me congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr grech and ms thun und hohenstein and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and its chair, as well as the committee on legal affairs (juri), for cooperating effectively with the danish and cypriot presidencies, and on reaching a political agreement in december last year. a first reading agreement will be a great achievement for all concerned. we managed to comply with the requirements of the single market act i, which called for a fast-track adoption of the proposals, and the proposals have been adopted very swiftly. we also managed to fulfil one of the obligations set out in the digital agenda for europe. the path towards this agreement serves as an excellent model of political will and engagement, even overcoming some divergent points of view. the commission stands fully behind this agreement and is very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. these two legislative acts will bring tangible benefits to consumers and traders in the internal market. we know that about one in five eu consumers encounters problems when buying goods or services in the internal market. recently, i held a press conference on a sweep exercise on online purchasing of videos, downloading videos, dvds and music, and there was a 73 % rate in all member states inspected of deficiencies in implementing certain legislation as regards online trading. only a small fraction of these consumers, the one in five who encounter problems, currently seek and secure effective redress. the adr and odr legislation will enable them to solve their disputes out of court in a simple, fast and low-cost way. this will not only save consumers from often overburdening court proceedings, but will also motivate them to seek redress in the first place. the cheaper it is and the swifter it is, the more enticing it would be to seek a remedy. let me briefly outline the breakthrough elements that these two measures will introduce. first, with the exceptions of health and education, we have secured full adr coverage. this means that consumers, regardless of sector and of geographical location, can address their dispute to an adr entity. second, we set minimum requirements for the quality of adr entities, which have to respect certain principles, such as those of impartiality, independence, effectiveness and fairness. furthermore, we will enhance consumer information. despite the fact that the final agreement on this point does not entirely reflect the original hopes of the commission, it certainly marks a step forward, as traders who commit to using adr will inform consumers accordingly. finally, we shall be introducing the innovative odr platform for online disputes. both consumers and traders will be able to submit their dispute online, in any official eu language, and have it dealt with entirely online. this will boost the confidence of both consumers and traders in trading online and across borders. before i finish, let me stress that the commission’s work is not over. we are committed to delivering a well-functioning and user-friendly odr platform. we will also help member states by issuing implementation guidelines on adr. finally, in cooperation with stakeholders, members of this parliament and member states, we shall undertake a series of flanking measures to promote adr and odr across the european union. the adoption of the adr and the odr legislation is a milestone for the re-launching of the internal market. this agreement will improve citizens’ everyday lives and we should all give it our full-hearted and whole-hearted support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the adr directive is a major milestone on the road to further liberalising the internal market and further strengthening consumer protection. the commission has always been concerned with disputes between businesses and consumers. i regret, commissioner, that only consumers can call the adr service, but not companies, although it is always a dispute between companies and consumers. the basic principle is that it should not matter who initiates the dispute, but that such disputes can be settled through simple, effective, cost-effective out-of-court measures. so there is a need for improvement here, because companies too should be able to call such a body in the sense of consumer protection and not have to go straight to court. the second is the nature of the adr units. there are legitimate, good in-house adr offices. of course, they must have greater transparency, greater independence, greater autonomy, and i am in favour of that. but now, when an experienced person supports an adr unit, he is simultaneously signing his resignation. after the end of this adr activity, she may not work in the same company for three years, no longer use the expertise, nor work in affiliated companies. i think that's a bit much, because we need experienced people in these adr offices, not someone who says, "well, i don't care if i get fired later, i'll do it now". these two points must be corrected in the next opportunity. otherwise, this adr directive is a great thing. i can only ask all members to support this proposal, this directive. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, louis grech and róża von thun and hohenstein.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe, as has been said on several occasions, that the adoption of the out-of-court dispute settlement directive and the creation of a single european online settlement platform is indeed a real step forward for the internal market. i am quite conscious of saying this to our commissioner, who was put under pressure in various places by colleagues who said that we need legal proceedings before the commission introduced this directive. i think it was a wise move to try to save consumers - as many colleagues have already said - from having to go to court, because out-of-court dispute settlement is faster, cheaper and easier in the internet world. it is clear that such out-of-court settlement does not automatically succeed. it's obvious she's not easy. but if it succeeds, it will be the easiest thing for consumers to do. i am therefore very pleased, commissioner, that the commission has followed the epp group and taken this path. we must now evaluate together what the benefits of this new approach are, which, if successful, will be in the interest of all consumers in europe. our rapporteur, róża thun, said that we must of course make it a priority - and i ask you, commissioner, to make sure that the platform that will inform consumers on the internet in the future is actually very easy to access and understand, and in our view it must also be available in all the languages of the european union. our shadow rapporteur, hans-peter mayer, pointed out that this is also a major step forward in the internal market, because of course crossborder trade is becoming more and more important and consumers are fortunately less and less concerned about where a product comes from and more and more concerned about its quality and characteristics. we introduced a scheme in baden-württemberg a few years ago whereby we used an online arbitrator for all disputes on the internet. we have had very good experiences with this and i hope that we can be a bit of a trendsetter for this development in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is indeed an interesting and good day for consumers. good news for consumers, bad news for lawyers? not at all! this legislation is an intelligent complement to court proceedings. the culture of alternative dispute resolution is not new in europe. neutral third parties arbitrators, mediators, ombudsmen exist in many member states. these procedures are cheaper, faster and easier. we want to take in the different traditions in europe, not abolish them. in germany, for example, there are good experiences in trade and craft. we'll build on that. because so far many procedures and knowledge of them have been incomplete. unfortunately, there were also different qualities. there are only 750 jobs in europe and few industries that use them. that's not enough. these are all points that make this legislation useful and meaningful. i am very concerned that the independence and impartiality of the arbitrators is guaranteed, as is the freedom to opt out of the process and to seek an alternative during the whole process. this is a good opportunity for consumers. we shall therefore be voting in favour of these laws.
member of the commission. − madam president, i share all the views which have been expressed. i am very happy that everybody has realised that we are taking a positive step today, because most consumers, when there is a problem regarding the purchase of goods, whether online or otherwise, find it difficult to seek redress. i spent 15 years in malta working as a lawyer in the arena, in the law courts, and i remember how difficult it was sometimes, even psychologically, for someone to attend a court sitting; ordinary people who used to tremble the moment they crossed the threshold of the law courts. so creating swifter, cheaper, low-cost redress is something which will improve consumer legislation and protect the european consumer in the internal market of 500 million consumers. i am happy that the commission’s proposals, and the compromises which have been made throughout the legislative proposal, have led to this legislation being adopted so far by both the council and parliament, and tomorrow we will have the plenary vote in this assembly. may i just state, in replying to a particular question, why business-to-business relations and transactions have not been included in this legislation. this is a piece of consumer protection legislation, so it emphasises protection for consumers when a problem arises after a consumer has purchased something, online or otherwise. this is why we have not regulated the business-to-business commercial relationship. there is nothing in the legislation to stop member states, if they so wish, from extending adr or odr to business-to-business transactions but, since this was consumer protection legislation, the emphasis was of course on protecting the consumer rather than businesses. but there is nothing to stop the beneficial effects of this legislation being extended to business-to-business transactions. in conclusion, i am very glad to hear that we share similar and positive views on the importance of adr and odr for the internal market. i trust that the plenary vote will confirm that we are working together to ensure that all citizens have access to effective online and offline out-of-court redress. i am confident that consumers and traders will use adr and odr and will benefit greatly as a result of this legislation. sometimes we think only about consumers, but a business trader who has a dispute with a consumer will benefit through low-cost proceedings as well. as i said earlier, the commission will continue to work intensively to further promote adr and odr across the eu. there is still much work to be done to ensure that what we are approving here will not be a dead letter, but will be effectively implemented. finally, i would like once again to thank the two rapporteurs, mr grech and mrs thun und hohenstein, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their efforts and commitment towards reaching a rapid but consistent agreement with the council.
on behalf of the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in fact, there are figures that say that up to 0.4% of the gross domestic product of the european union is lost to consumers because they for whatever reason do not get their right. this is why this adr/odr tool is so important to consumers. let me now turn to two points which the epp also raised, but which were also very important in the debate. firstly, it is very important to us that the procedures be resolved as far as possible through adr, through alternative dispute resolution. however, it was also very important to us that this should not close the way to the courts, because there can be cases where these procedures do not lead to a result. that was very important to us in this context. i am very glad that we have prevailed on this issue. the second point raised is why this should be offered only to consumers at european level. the commissioner has just taken up the matter again. it is very important: this is about consumer protection! companies have a lot of opportunities, opportunities and resources to make a difference. the weakest link in negotiations is usually the consumer. we must give them the means to defend themselves if necessary, so that they really have a chance of getting their due. that's why this was so important. we as social democrats insist that we are offering this first and foremost to consumers, that it was not so necessary to involve the companies as well. the importance of this question for us social democrats is also shown by the number of speakers from our group who have spoken today. today is indeed a very positive day for the citizens of europe!
in writing. alternative dispute resolution (adr) is a good alternative to lengthy and expensive court proceedings. we are giving consumers and businesses alike a tool to get their rights easily, effectively, quickly - within 90 days - and at a low cost. it is to be welcomed that the adr should apply to online and offline contracts for goods and services, irrespective of whether they are cross-border and purely domestic contracts. of course, the way to court is still open. the new european platform for online dispute resolution (odr), which will directly download complaint forms and guidelines in all the eu's official languages, will also bring great benefits to our consumers. these two instruments bring us a big step closer to a well-functioning internal market - now it is time to educate market participants about their options.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the online dispute resolution regulation is based on the alternative dispute resolution directive, which i am responsible for. both these reports are of great importance, particularly in the light of the commission's proposal for a common european sales law. the latter is a quasi-complementary substantive right, albeit optional. i would like to emphasise that i welcome the fact that online dispute resolution is not only applicable, as adr is, to complaints from consumers against businesses, but - and this is right and better - also to complaints from businesses against consumers. in the end, it should not matter whether the consumer takes action against the trader because a purchased item does not work properly or whether the trader takes action against the consumer because the consumer does not pay the purchase price for the defective item. the aim must be to relieve our courts of burdens and to ensure that the procedure is quick and simple.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. how can we expect to unite european citizens when we accept policies that increase inequalities between member states and societies? how can we expect the people not to revolt when the policies we are implementing force thousands of citizens to live their families on a salary or pension of 300 euros? can we ? i am afraid that we are unwittingly becoming today sharers and accomplices in a chapter of european history for which we will be ashamed in the future. as directly elected members of parliament, we have a manifold responsibility. we must call for a strong and decisive end to these inhumane measures here and now, so that we can effectively tackle racism and xenophobia while it is still early.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to return to the opening of our sitting yesterday. on behalf of my group, i would like to point out that we do not agree with the president's statement that, as in the case of the expulsion of four members of the european parliament who wanted to go to the sahel, the moroccan authorities should take action, that we do not consider this to be sufficient. we would like to expressly ask the president to protest to the moroccan authorities, to express his disapproval of this procedure and to consider sending an official delegation of the european parliament to morocco, in the sahel region.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased to welcome the president of israel, mr peres, to our parliament in strasbourg today. it is a great honour for us, mr president, that you have come to us today to share your experiences and your hopes for the future. there is an extremely strong bond between european and israeli citizens today, which we want to further strengthen for the future with your visit. we have established close economic and cultural links, personal ties have grown, and our shared rich but also extremely painful history will bind us together for all time. the european union and israel both emerged from the horrors of the second world war and the experience of the lowest point in human history, the holocaust. in europe, more than 60 years ago, men and women swore on the ruins of that war: never again. it is this 'never again' that i, as a german member of this house, who has the great honour of being president of a multinational parliament, feel is the paramount duty of all of us here today and forever. the fight against anti-semitism, against exclusion, against intolerance is the foundation of the european union, whose parliament we are. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the unquestioned right of israel to exist and the right of its people to live in security are not negotiable. we europeans are firmly convinced of this, and i say it again, especially as a german. i also wish, mr president, that i could say today that since our last meeting there has been progress in the middle east conflict. i'm afraid i can't make that determination. after lengthy talks and negotiations, a genuinely serious peace initiative is still pending. the palestinian people have the same right to independence and to live in dignity and peace as the israeli people. (applause from the centre) but neither the israeli nor the palestinian people have ever lived in lasting peace. i think we all want to see how both peoples can live side by side in two democratic states with secure borders in peace and prosperity. in 1993, mr president, in your book 'a new middle east', you set out your vision for the future of your region. a middle east that connects people through economic cooperation and peace through reconciliation. some people called you naive back then. we call you brave in this house because you have the same visionary courage as the founding fathers of the european union. we share your dream that the middle east will one day be an emerging and peaceful region. and that is why we will continue to support you, mr president peres. mr president, welcome to the european parliament. we look forward to hearing your speech. (applause from the centre)
i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the honour you have bestowed on president peres. i thank you very much, mr president, for your words. i think the appeal you have made to us will certainly not go unheard here. i hope that, in cooperation between the state of israel, the israeli people and the peoples of europe, what you have expressed here and what is our common value, that respect for the individual and the non-negotiable guarantee of individual human rights, will apply to everyone in europe, in israel and also in palestine. and this is true everywhere in the world. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur, mrs auken, for her balanced and completely correct report. this report addresses several issues: firstly, whether the european commission has followed the european ombudsman's requests and recommendations in its response to the investigation and handling of a complaint concerning the way in which the commission conducted an infringement procedure against austria; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. a practical and very tangible example illustrates the urgent need for improvement in european regulations and directives: the ongoing revision of the eia directive must, among other things, take account of the objectivity and impartiality of the competent authorities. it is also worth considering whether a general provision on administrative procedures would be beneficial to the eu administration. this may help to avoid future misunderstandings, as described in this report.
in writing. − this law is a fine example of what the eu is doing that makes sense: when buying goods and services, we consumers occasionally run into problems: a seller refuses to replace a broken laptop despite the warranty, or a travel company does not refund the price of a failed trip. such problems are even more difficult to solve when the buyer is buying in another eu country or on the internet. legal action against them often seems hopeless. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the eu is helping: if you are an eu consumer with a complaint about goods or services against a seller, you will soon be able to count on affordable, fast and fair out-of-court dispute resolution, whether you are shopping online or offline, at home or abroad. in some member states or regions, this already exists, but few people know about it. in germany we have the european consumer centre in kehl. the aim is to have such alternative dispute resolution bodies in place across the eu, in line with eu-wide standards. the commission will also be able to use the eu's online complaint platform to provide a single complaint form for online purchases in all eu languages from 2015.
in writing. - i voted against the liotard report today because the proposals were mainly about prohibitions and censorship. however, according to the understanding of liberals, gender stereotypes are not overcome by censorship and bans, but by social discussion processes.
in writing. - the fdp delegation voted against the liotard report today, as the proposals were mainly about prohibitions and censorship. however, according to the understanding of liberals, gender stereotypes are not overcome by censorship and bans, but by social discussion processes. the eu must fight illegal prostitution and pornography and protect women and children. it was only in 2011 that the european parliament adopted a directive requiring member states to delete websites containing child pornography. however, this is clearly material that is produced and distributed illegally and not pornography in general. it is not the eu's job to judge and censor legally produced films with pornographic content. the censorship called for in this report would lead to the surveillance of the internet.
in writing. - i voted against the liotard report today because the proposals were mainly about prohibitions and censorship. however, according to the understanding of liberals, gender stereotypes are not overcome by censorship and bans, but by social discussion processes.
in writing. - the fdp delegation voted against the liotard report today, as the proposals were mainly about prohibitions and censorship. however, according to the understanding of liberals, gender stereotypes are not overcome by censorship and bans, but by social discussion processes. the eu must fight illegal prostitution and pornography and protect women and children. it was only in 2011 that the european parliament adopted a directive requiring member states to delete websites containing child pornography. however, this is clearly material that is produced and distributed illegally and not pornography in general. it is not the eu's job to judge and censor legally produced films with pornographic content. the censorship called for in this report would lead to the surveillance of the internet.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have worked on this package, and i would also like to thank the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the committee on development has done a very good job in this respect, i think, of taking account of the impact of the cap on developing countries. we have examined whether the proposals are consistent with our desire for policy coherence in development, i.e. a coordinated policy. and on this point we have tabled amendments again for tomorrow's vote. i am asking for support at this point. we must try to find synergies between development policy and agricultural policy. and it is not the intention of development policymakers to undermine the legitimate aims of the cap. on the other hand, agricultural policy-makers should also realise that it is not in our long-term interest to defend the interests of individual european players which are in conflict with those of developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european common agricultural policy is primarily concerned with ensuring food security for our own citizens within the european union. the committee on budgetary control believes that the most important thing to emphasize is the clarity and transparency of the aid measures. on the one hand, farmers must not be made too difficult, and the bureaucratic standards must be reduced a little, because the burden of bureaucracy on farmers is indeed immense. it is therefore all the more important to ensure that the support measures are clear and transparent and, in particular, that farmers can understand and implement these bureaucratic rules. on the other hand, we are very concerned about maintaining the quality of expenditure. in this context, there are also trivial limits for so-called harmless errors, which should be tailored to the size and situation of the country and perhaps not all should be uniform. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations, in particular the future of the union's external relations.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking as the author of the opinion of the committee of the regions on the rural development regulation. the key is to make the best use of the european union's financial resources for sustainable rural development, thereby increasing the prosperity of rural people. we therefore want the erdf, the esf and the eaggf funds to be used with synergy effects. this could strengthen small towns as anchors in rural areas or make poverty reduction more effective. the commission has not been consistent on this point. the committee of the regions has made some improvements. we have created the possibility for member states to align the eafrd co-financing rate for rural development with the other funds in order to allow for integrated approaches to funding. we in the green group have also proposed that the vat subsidies be adjusted accordingly, and i hope you will support this, ladies and gentlemen. this strengthens and stimulates rural projects. these are also the best solutions for the leader projects. and this is the great opportunity to really make sustainable and climate-friendly rural development possible!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we're facing an important decision tomorrow. is everything going on as usual or will we really get a new agricultural policy that changes things? we must adapt agricultural policy to meet the new challenges. there's no way around it! agricultural policy must be fairer, it must focus on the conservation of resources, but it must also move away from cheap mass production towards regionality, towards a quality-based offer. we're a long way from that. and we need an agricultural policy which is also really fair to the developing countries. the commission has taken the right course, one can say that. the committee on agriculture has unfortunately watered down a lot of things. we really need a greening that lives up to its name, that is not voluntary but binding on every farmer. and the three key points: we must ensure that every farmer follows a crop rotation. we do not want large areas to be covered by monocultures, as is still possible in the compromises. we want to set the ecological priority areas at 7%, and to make it clear, these are areas where no chemicals are used, but where production can still be carried out. and we want to preserve the green. we are far behind the targets in the committee on agriculture. we must be clear that we do not want to continue to use these funds - public funds - to fatten the agricultural industry. we want to strengthen farmers in this respect. that is why we must also talk about equity in distribution. and the fairness of the distribution starts where we have to talk about a ceiling: 100 000 euros per farm is enough in our opinion. and that would also give us the means to redistribute it in other directions. we must give the smaller firms more opportunities and give them more resources. what we do not want is a redistribution from the second pillar to the first. if we can only move from the first to the second pillar, then perhaps we can correct some of the mistakes made in the negotiations on the finances. and what we want, finally, is that export subsidies should be a thing of the past. the commission proposal and the agriculture committee's proposal do not raise any major concerns. we must get rid of the massive import of soybeans, which is what we use to produce cheap meat on a massive scale. this is not sustainable! and if we do not correct that, then we have simply missed the essential point of the reform. i hope that with this agricultural reform we will also have a protein strategy in the european union. i have to say one more thing: 3.5 million farmers have given up farming in europe, so we have to ask ourselves whether we are reaching the right people with the payments. we really have to think about the distribution and i think that's not been resolved yet. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the recent reforms of the european agricultural policy have actually been a good way of helping farmers to get to the market. it is therefore surprising that we are now beginning to return to the old rules and are again in danger of not supporting the entrepreneurial attitude of farmers and producing for the market, but of returning to prices fixed at european level. this is a big mistake, it also puts the market capacity of farmers at risk and is not the signal we should be sending to the outside world. it is good to strengthen agricultural producer groups to keep up with the different levels of production in the food chain. but we cannot allow competition rules - a basic project of european policy - to be abolished for these groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is also important that we do not allow them to be forced into membership of producer groups which are given market dominance. we must not create a situation in which such producer groups can request co-financing through the back door for projects which are not supported by an entrepreneur as a result of a conscious decision to opt out. we must be careful that the safety net is really only a safety net and does not lead to a return to permanent instrumentalisation, as we have now, when we extend intervention to almost all products. this is the old instrument we used. history has already shown us that we have made mistakes there, that this leads to misdevelopments. we do not need new milk lakes and butter mountains, but we need clear farmers who face the market. and we have it! in recent years, european farmers have shown that they can face the market; they are, to a large extent, really competitive. and in those parts where they are not, we must support them and help them to take the final step towards it and not go back to the old values! we have to be careful, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we really have one or two crises in the first year, we will have the problem of how to finance direct payments in the next year. we will be forced to cut direct payments in the budget. and i'd like to see how we explain that to the people back home!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in countless talks, debates and meetings we have dealt with the commission's legislative proposal. in my group, the epp, alone, we held 53 meetings in the agriculture working party last year, and now we are finally dealing with over 7 000 amendments. i would like to thank everyone - from paolo de castro, to the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, to the colleagues and the administration - who have helped us to carry out this herculean task. i also expect that, as the spokesman for the epp group, i can say that my group will be voting in favour of most of the compromises that have been found by a large majority tomorrow. i would like to support one amendment as a german member of parliament. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial contribution for the baltic states. i ask the members to support this motion. it is an act of justice to bring the baltic states closer to the european means. agriculture is very different in the 27 member states, commissioner. i have not understood why the commission has proposed the same three environmental requirements in the first pillar for farmers from portugal to bulgaria, from malta to finland. i am here with mr nicholson, who said that we could have done better, more precisely, in the second pillar. and i am also convinced that the result would have been even more ecological than the proposal we have discussed. i thank all those who have contributed and hope that we will get a good result tomorrow!
the commission has already done so. we have reached a good compromise, a clear and consistent line for the trilogue! and what have we achieved? we have achieved: greening in the first pillar, 30% deduction from direct payments for all farmers throughout the european union in the event of non-compliance. this is a complete change of system, ladies and gentlemen. only in the first pillar does the commissioner have access to the greening and that is important. the first hectares can be paid as a supplementary payment for smaller farms. i think that is a good approach. at the same time, i think that the ceiling of at least eur 200 000 per undertaking is correct, taking into account the number of jobs. the compromise reached on the milk quota in the dantin report is the necessary and correct entry into a debate which is important for the milk sector in 2015. food security requires regional markets and short supply chains. the producer groups called for are an important approach. we are calling for the second pillar to be strengthened by the possibility of transferring funds from the first pillar. and in this sum, greening in the first pillar, agar environmental measures in the second pillar, we will achieve sustainability. i am convinced that a competitive agriculture, a vibrant countryside, is the right approach to greening. competitiveness is important, large companies are important. we are also here to help the smaller farms, the farms in disadvantaged areas. we must vote in favour of these farms tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we shall of course be passing many good things with the reform tomorrow. i ask for your indulgence for the sake of time, because i have a few critical points to mention. the first problem is that there is no bureaucratic reduction. worse still, by proposing many well-intentioned improvements, we, the members of the european parliament, will ourselves be contributing to the building up of bureaucracy, i.e. from tomorrow after the vote it will no longer be the commissioner's proposal, it will be our own proposal. i ask that you take this into account when criticizing. we'll be criticizing ourselves tomorrow, of course. secondly, a sound economic policy is complemented by a social policy. since 1992, we have been taking an entrepreneurial approach to european agricultural policy. direct payments are the entrepreneurial element of the european agricultural policy. the farmer, by farming, provides services to society that are not paid for by the market. otherwise, the farmer should decide for himself what he wants to do and what he does not want to do: if he farms one hectare, he will receive payments for one hectare, if he farms ten hectares, for ten hectares, and if he farms 1 000 hectares, he will then receive these payments for 1 000 hectares. a cap on direct payments does not meet this entrepreneurial requirement. on the contrary, a cap on direct payments ultimately leads to a political optimisation of forms of enterprise. this is planned economy, this is socialism, and that is why i am opposed to a cap on direct payments. and if you think that the country needs a certain amount of support, then you must honestly define it as social policy and put it there. the third problem, to put it briefly, is that the proposals for the common organization of the market are well-intentioned but not feasible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the german social democrats want a european common agricultural policy that is strong, sustainable and capable of making headway. we need money for that, and we need reform. we want a reform that is fair to farmers and the needs of society. what do you mean, "i'm not"? we want 7% ecological priority area. we do not want a diversification of crops, but a succession of fruits. we do not want coupled payments, we do not want export refunds, we do not want the countless derogations. there is much more to be said, but i can already say this: if we do not correct the decision of the agriculture committee tomorrow, we will end up with only a minor reform and, in addition, a huge mountain of bureaucracy ahead of us. that is why i have tabled several amendments. i 'm very happy with the cap . now the money will go to the companies that really need it. the future of rural areas must be strengthened. the budget must not be weakened by a transfer to the first pillar. a good agricultural policy costs a lot of money, which is why i am campaigning for a strong budget. public money for public goods means that farmers and the other parts of society must pull together!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a historic opportunity tomorrow to change the course of agricultural policy. parliament is here for the first time! and we are deciding over 40% of the eu budget here. and if we are putting 40% of taxpayers' money into a sector, then there should be conditions attached to that, and those are sustainability criteria. the environment committee, the largest committee in this house, has written an opinion on this. unfortunately, the opinion of the largest legislative committee is not to be found anywhere in the compromise! and that is why i can only recommend that more sustainability - and that is mandatory sustainability - be voted on here tomorrow, otherwise i will really have difficulty in publicly justifying my decision, and i think that would be a fatal signal. and to commissioner cioloş, i would ask again: where are your red lines? a rapporteur of parliament may withdraw his proposal to include his name in a report. will you, when certain red lines have been crossed, take the step of withdrawing a proposal?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to reiterate what commissioner lewandowski said, namely that we are not only talking about the directives for the 2014 budget today, but - you rightly pointed out - that we already had a payment gap in the 2012 budget, which means that the commission cannot really pay for contracts it has concluded; and in 2013, we're going to have the same problem. we are therefore pushing a deficit problem forward, and we must not drag that into the 2014 budget! we must also solve these payment problems in the interests of the acceptance of the european union and our credibility, because the local citizens are rightly angry with us if we do not solve this problem. the european union is facing a major challenge in terms of new, sustainable competitiveness. the european budget must make a decisive contribution to this. this is particularly true in the areas of investment in the future: broadband, research, education, particularly the fight against youth unemployment, but also - with reference to the debate this afternoon - organic farming, and of course the fight against climate change and the substantial increase in renewable energy. the european union must lead in all these policy areas. the member states are currently faced with a lot of austerity. it is all the more important that we pool our common european interests, that we make offers to the people of the european union, that we give them new hope. and we believe that the european budget must make a major contribution to this in the coming years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their proposal. one year before the european elections, this was the only way to win a large majority in the plenary tomorrow. the composition of parliament needs to be reformed; this is widely acknowledged. the basic structure dates back to a time when parliament had only an advisory role. it has been divided roughly into four categories: the large countries, the less large, the less small and the small countries. today, when we have a legislative function, it is no longer enough to legitimize and represent. we need a new formula for the representation of citizens in this house. but the proposal is pragmatic: nobody wins anything now - nobody loses more than one member. i think that was reasonable to make room for the new colleagues from croatia. in general, there is satisfaction, except for the question of whether sweden or austria will have to give up their seats. we promise that parliament will return to this subject immediately after the european elections. we need a lasting formula, and we also need a balance between the two pillars of legislation and - as i say - the introduction of european lists. but right now, we have an emergency solution, not a permanent solution. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this pragmatic proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this debate, the accusation that a member of our committee acted for personal, nationalist reasons - and this was a unanimous decision of the committee - shows how urgently we need to change our approach to this question, to stop arbitrarily redistributing seats in the european parliament after each new country joins or after changes in population. we need a clear, precise, sustainable and democratically unambiguous formula which will make it possible to calculate this distribution of seats according to the size of the member states, the number of inhabitants, without any doubt. we fought for this in the committee. we have put forward a proposal to that effect. it was included as a compromise amendment and adopted unanimously by the whole committee. if it is adopted, this will be the last time we try to do justice to this task by moving the seats back and forth between countries. i would also like to thank rafał and roberto, who i think have done an excellent job. but it cannot be a question of arguing in parliament or in the council about which country gets how many seats. in democracy, rules are the most important thing, and the most important rule in representative democracy must be the conversion of votes into seats in parliament. because there must be no doubt that the citizens are adequately represented and that we are adequately legitimized. that's why it's important that we agree now. this is the last time. the next time we will be dealing with this in a clean formula which we will develop together in a convention: degressive, proportional, fair and just. i thank all those involved and look forward to the vote tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. this is an interesting question, mr president. the fact is that there were a wide variety of proposals in the vote and that national interests may well have played a role in these proposals. there was a very narrow vote at one point - 11 to 10. but in the end, there was unanimous agreement on the overall outcome. i want to make it quite clear that this is what i envision in democracy and what i occasionally want from you, including during the votes today. there are many issues to be discussed in a parliament. each has a different interest. but we have a common task: to find fair rules for all, especially when it comes to voting rights and parliamentary rights. and then everyone should stick to it, including you, by the way, and when it is spoken in this house not always interrupt with interjections and noise, but accept that this is a parliament. this is a democratic process. that is the way we proceed in committee, and that is the way we proceed in plenary.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i shall be voting in favour of the present proposal for the redistribution of seats in the european parliament, which is certainly not what all the members of my group will be doing. i would like to make three specific criticisms. firstly, i find it unacceptable that we as a parliament have not managed to take the european elections into account in the long term and to agree on the appropriate course of action. the small thing we are seeing today with the introduction of the lead candidate, the unification of the election date and the distribution of seats to be adjusted is not really good news. it would have been our duty to place the elections in the context of growing scepticism of the european project and growing political disillusionment and to push forward the political process. secondly, the work on the proposal for the distribution of seats has revealed a central political problem to be overcome: everyone has acted in such a way that nothing changes for their own member country to their own disadvantage. the citizens will find it difficult to see any difference between this and the games of the intergovernmental conferences. we need clear, transparent rules and resilient methods for dealing with the changes ahead, as negotiations with other candidate countries are under way and demographic changes are also under way. thirdly, i do not believe that any future changes in the distribution of seats can be made without considering the overall balance of power within the eu. i hope we can agree tomorrow that the balance of power in the council should also be on the table. this includes the question of whether the role of the committee of the regions should not be significantly strengthened in the future, since it is the representatives of the area where citizens experience european policy decisions that should have a concrete and direct impact on the design of the environment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i fully agree that politicians must decide for themselves. the question is: to what extent do we take the questions, concerns and concerns of the citizens seriously? and we must do so much more intensively in future work, especially on a dossier like this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the 2014 european elections are coming up. the expected accession of nearly four and a half million croatian citizens and the different demographic trends in the member states make it necessary to recalculate the number of meps per member state. our hands are tied. it is to remain at the 751 members provided for in the treaty. the large member states are already underrepresented, with countries such as france, the united kingdom and spain even more underrepresented than my own country, germany. citizens of the smallest member states are over-represented, and are entitled to at least six meps under the treaty. it was therefore imperative that it should hit the middle member states. we have agreed that they should lose no more than one member state per member state, because we know that in the end they would have had to lose several members, and because we therefore expected their agreement in the council. we need unanimity in the council for our proposal, so that we can then vote in favour of it again. it was therefore the only possible solution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would just like to make a brief comment. first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs very warmly for their work, which is certainly not subject to the entertainment tax, because to find a solution here where there are no winners but only a few losers is not something that can win a lot of sympathy. and i think that under the circumstances, they've done it with great care and with great reason, and they seem to be following a logic. i think that despite the one dispute that exists, we are also achieving a broad consensus in parliament on this issue. we must also say that this is a fair solution in the circumstances, although i - of course not entirely in earnest - would like to point out that the only country to lose not one but three mandates is the federal republic of germany. we have already included this in the treaty of nice, but it must be noted: the only country to lose three seats in 2014 is the federal republic of germany, all the others lose one seat. we must take this into account. if you are prepared to give up your mandate early on, mr rangel, you must not be punished for not having taken note of it later. as others have said, we must have a general discussion next time, which is about legitimacy. i agree with the positions that legitimacy and, consequently, proportionality in a federal system is not a question of one chamber only. this is not just the case with the european parliament. proportionality and therefore legitimacy must be seen in the light of both chambers. we must find a fair solution between the two chambers. we should also make it clear in the debate with the outside world - including the constitutional courts - that the solution we are now proposing is a solution which is more proportionate and includes both chambers than, for example, the federal republic of germany or the united states of america today. we should therefore act with the necessary self-confidence, because we do not need to be legitimized and we have already created the conditions for being democratically legitimized to act on behalf of the citizens of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, it is good to see that the rules for national accounts - the statistical rules - are improving, that social and environmental indicators are also better reflected, and that the data will be of a better quality. but we should not forget what has delayed these negotiations for several months. there were some very sharp clashes with some member states in the council who did not want to see real transparency introduced, especially in the area of government risks - first in the area of pension burdens, then in the area of other off-balance-sheet risks, such as public private partnerships. it is bitter that even after the new rules agreed in the six-pack and after all the costs incurred by the crisis in public finances, we still do not see a willingness in all countries to establish real transparency. it is still attractive to finance investments through hidden risks and hidden debt rather than through tax revenues. the european parliament has not succeeded in cleaning up this mess, despite pressure from all the political groups. and it is all the worse that germany, which in these matters always puts a premium on discipline and order, was on the wrong side here. that means we're going to go into another round of confrontation. the question is: will countries - similar to companies - ever be required to introduce tough regulations, like the ipsas that exists on a global scale? we shall meet the council and the commission here at the end of the year.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish, on behalf of the commission, to thank ms westlund, as well as all honourable members who have participated in the development of this comprehensive report on the protection of public health from endocrine disruptors. i welcome this report. the subject concerns the health of every citizen in the european union. it also concerns the health and the resilience of our environment. endocrine disruptors are a very worrying phenomenon and are beginning to attract more attention in several member states. your report describes clearly that the increased incidence of hormone-related disorders and illnesses in people needs to be taken very seriously. the endocrine system is a complex network of glands that produce the hormones that govern growth, development, metabolism, reproduction and even behaviour. as the report says, there is a disturbing trend, particularly with regard to human reproductive capacity, where endocrine disrupting chemicals are thought to be a contributory factor. your report is also very timely. the commission’s current strategy on endocrine disruptors dates back to 1999. we are now in the process of revising it because there has been significant scientific progress over the last 15 years. this year, the commission has to propose criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, which will serve as the reference for the plant protection products and biocides regulations. we must also review how endocrine disruptors are regulated under reach. your report cites that 27 000 research reports deal with endocrine disruptors and their effects on humans and animals. one recent report deserves particular attention: the who and unep have just come out with a landmark study on endocrine disruptors. it concludes that ‘many synthetic chemicals, untested for their disrupting effects on the hormone system, could have significant health implications’. professor åke bergman of stockholm university and chief editor of the report said: ‘as science continues to advance, it is time for both management of endocrine disrupting chemicals and further research on exposure and effects of these chemicals in wildlife and humans’. more science is, of course, always useful. however, at the conference that the commission organised last june, which brought together the world’s leading scientists, ngos and industry, it was recognised that we have reached the point where current scientific evidence supports the need for regulatory action. even though we will need more research, there are enough tools, definitions, test guidelines and criteria to identify substances with endocrine disrupting properties today. the stakes are truly high. the effects on us, our children, and on future generations mean that the costs of inaction could be considerable, and therefore we must take due consideration of the precautionary principle. our work – the revision of the strategy on endocrine disruptors, the criteria for their identification, and the review under reach – will be guided by the available scientific evidence and will aim for consistency among all the pieces of relevant legislation that deal with chemicals. in this context, there are two reports that are about to be published, one by the commission’s joint research centre and the other one by the european food safety authority. the results will help us set criteria for endocrine disruptors and will be important in contributing to the development of our policy. when presenting the who-unep report, unep executive director achim steiner said ‘chemical products are increasingly part of modern life and support many national economies, but the unsound management of chemicals challenges the achievement of key development goals, and sustainable development for all’. alongside increasing knowledge among scientists and public authorities comes the increasing awareness of citizens and increasing distrust in certain chemicals. the situation cannot continue. citizens are looking to the european authorities for regulatory action. they expect that only safe chemicals remain on the market. this might be a challenge for some parts of the industry, but it is a challenge which is without any doubt leading to a healthier and safer future for all of us and also to new innovation opportunities. innovation drives competitiveness and innovation in safer and healthier products, substituting the chemicals that can harm our endocrine system for safer chemicals or methods, certainly gives a competitive advantage. this is thus an opportunity for industry to contribute to more sustainable production as well as to restoring and increasing public confidence. this is thus an opportunity for industry to be competitive in a fast-growing market caused by changes which are unavoidable. we need chemicals to maintain our lifestyle and competitive economy, but we also need to make sure they are safe for the future well-being of ourselves, as well as of our planet.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i thank you, commissioner, for your opening words and for the care with which you have chosen them. what we don't know scares us. we know that endocrine disruptors are perceived by the public as particularly threatening precisely because we don't know what's behind them. news of harmful substances in plastics, in our food, in our water, or in household chemicals makes us anxious. studies show an increase in reproductive diseases, diabetes, cancer and neurodevelopmental disorders. the problem is that science still does not know exactly how our hormonal system works and what role interactions and low-dose effects play. in the european parliament we have been looking at endocrine disrupting substances for a long time. we have asked the commission to develop a definition and an evaluation concept by 2013, and time is running out. in the present own-initiative report on the protection of health from endocrine disruptors, we have agreed on a good compromise which ensures the precautionary approach in the evaluation. the generally accepted definition of the world health organisation must serve as a basis. theoretically, we can ask for more and more studies at the green table to rule out any danger. i now call on the commission to develop a good and responsible evaluation approach. the manufacturer shall be able to demonstrate that he is able to set a limit value. in addition to any hazard analysis, risk analysis and risk management must also be considered, as not all hormonal substances are critical to the same extent. we also call for socioeconomic aspects to be included in the evaluation. it is also important to consider what is lost by prohibiting something and what are the consequences. finally, i would like to thank åsa westlund for the good cooperation and the good report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the s&d group supports the report by åsa westlund, which is ambitious but balanced. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. endocrine disruptors are a particular challenge. they harm man and beast. the who and unep reports have shown this: over 800 chemicals are suspected of disrupting the hormone system. i agree, commissioner, that the precautionary principle requires that we do not wait for more damage to occur, but that we act. the report by åsa westlund outlined several steps we should take. we need a clear identification of the chemicals that are showing these endocrine effects. we need appropriate testing methods to find out. you said there are 27,000 studies, but we still don't know exactly what the long-term effects are and what the potential combined effects of these substances are. the commission should now present a timetable - including the definition of intermediate steps - of what we are doing to get out of these chemicals to create alternatives, and industry should be encouraged to look for alternatives as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs in the various political groups. it was a really good collaboration, and i think that's extremely important, especially with a subject like this. we want to send a clear and strong signal with this report that the integration of migrants is a very important issue for us here in the european parliament. we also see the work being done on the ground and, above all, that this interaction between the european and the local level must work. for the first time in a long time, the proportion of the population of working age is falling, which means that we have fewer and fewer people actually participating in the labour market and being able to work. and with this demographic change, we are also heading towards a shortage of skilled workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but we have, for example, in my country of origin - in germany, and especially in bavaria - some jobs that cannot be filled because you cannot find qualified workers. the situation is particularly tense in the field of science, information technology and engineering, as well as in the nursing field, where we are in dire need of people who can actively participate in the labour market. it seems to be a bit of a contradiction at first sight, on the one hand we are looking for skilled workers, on the other hand we have high unemployment in some member states. the great challenge will be to actually bring people who are currently looking for a job in the eu and who have a qualification that is needed in another member state to that member state, in other words to establish a genuine european labour market. even if this is successful - which we still have to work very hard on - there will still be a gap in skills, in jobs that cannot be filled. in this respect, we also need a very targeted immigration of qualified people from outside the eu. our aim is, of course, as set out in the eu 2020 strategy to get more women into the labour market, but these are all aspects that interact. our aim is, and this is a very central point in this report, to establish a voluntary criteria-based immigration system at european level. because you have to imagine, if an indian, for example, is thinking about going to work somewhere else, and the eu is an option for him, then he has to deal with 27 different options to get a work and a residence permit. if i were in the situation of this indian, i would go straight to the united states and not deal with these 27 different systems. therefore, the possibility should be provided for member states to act in a coordinated manner on a voluntary basis. this is a global competition for the best minds. we must place ourselves there as the eu. we must also consider what we are going to do with the people who actually want to come and work here. it is precisely here that tailor-made integration measures are necessary. language is a central point, as are other very specific measures which we have included in this report. i would like to mention one more point: we proposed 2015 as the european year of integration, and tomorrow we will change this to 2016 with an oral proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the integration of migrants is still frequently mentioned in the same breath as demographic change and the shortage of skilled workers. but the apparent shortage of skilled workers in many european countries must not now be exploited to bring in workers from third countries by wage dumping. the instrument to combat the skills shortage must not be called 'cheaper', but 'at least equal pay for equal work in the same place'. i say at least, but certainly more. we are not going to allow the commission to do this. in the eu we have many skilled workers whose work qualifications are not recognised. we have many young turks in germany, people of turkish origin, who go back to turkey because their degrees are not recognized, because sometimes they are not wanted there, because companies do not hire them. we have a lot of dropouts in europe. in germany alone, 1.5 million people were affected in 2012. we must have a good migration policy in europe and we must not do this on the back of wage and social dumping.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, thank you very much for this interesting debate. let me summarize this again. the core message of this report is that work is the best way to integrate. we have to be aware that there is no standard migrant, but there are very different people, who come with different ideas, with different experiences from different countries. the integration measures must be targeted accordingly. i would like to address the issue of 'people without papers'. there is a great misunderstanding here, and there is a simple reluctance. we have several hundred thousand undocumented people here in europe. they work here, they live here, they've integrated. it is simply untrue if we do not give these people a chance to find a legal way back to life and to participate fully in that life. it is something which i do not think is acceptable in this society to continue to employ several hundred thousand people without legal papers, but always to pretend that we do not want them. i would like to make it quite clear that i am referring to mr pirker - who has unfortunately left us, and who probably read the report just as quickly - because i am not calling for the right to vote for illegal immigrants, but for normal immigrants. we've been having this discussion for a long time. nor is it necessary to require access to the labour market for rejected asylum seekers. both these points are not covered in this report. i would like to make this clear, because it is precisely with such things that we can once again set the mood. we are aiming to have this report here tomorrow with a large majority. it is a good signal to the outside world that we have recognised - as, it should be noted, a large part of the population within the eu has recognised - that we need migrants, that migrants can enrich us, that together, if we all pull in the same direction, we can also make the eu competitive in the globalised world.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 14 and 15 march 2013 with a resolution on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 7 and 8 february 2012 on the multiannual financial framework (2012/2803 ((rsp)).
mr callanan, i have to ask you a question. you've been trying to do that systematically, including with your e-mail yesterday. i have never called for a secret ballot in connection with the mff. it's very clever of you, but it's not true. i have said in my speech to the european council on behalf of several group chairmen in this house that a secret ballot is being discussed. that wasn't my suggestion. they do it, as i said, systematically. i get e-mails from your followers, who then accuse me of being the inventor of the secret ballot. but to make this clear once and for all, that is not the case. i am in favour of an open vote. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. you, mr callanan. so if there is a coward when it comes to open voting, it is not me, it is you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have actually said that we as the european union want to put the values of the european union first. this includes non-discrimination against citizens within the european union. (applause from the centre) the debate on the mff is in fact a pulverization of the european union. each member state is fighting for itself, and if a coalition is formed, then the european union will use its own money to buy out individual states from that coalition - as is happening in the mff negotiations! in total, if we look beyond the over 80 billion euro gap, we will have a deficit of 250 billion euro by the end of 2020. this is unacceptable! my group rejects the mff in this form! the council has exceeded its competence to speak only about the overall level, the structure and individual headings. he has presented us with a 40-page paper and believes that if we do not reject it now, we will have some chance of action. we're out of here if we don't say no today. that is why my group is saying clearly: we reject the mff, even though we have very different positions on many individual issues and see the need for negotiations. but that is our democratic right! a survey on youth unemployment and growth and employment: both are clearly fraudulent packages, both in terms of funding and in terms of how they are to be implemented! what resources are actually being made available? i would like to ask you to explain to us specifically where the funds for the youth pact come from. and do not explain that we are also taking the 3 billion euros that are planned out of the esf. you know very well that the programmes within the esf are no longer financiable! let me also ask you about the growth pact: where are you going to get the 52 billion euros from if you cannot even pay the bills for this year? it is also built on sand that the european investment bank is to receive an additional 10 billion euros to raise 50 billion euros for concrete projects, when it is precisely the crisis countries that are not able to co-finance good projects at all. that is not possible in my view, which is why we are sticking to our rejection. i have spoken of the pulverization of the european union. i believe that the discussion we are having with hungary is an expression of this pulverization. if the european union, if the institutions and the people who are actively taking action, the citizens of the european union, do not stand together against the fact that states break away and pursue their own policies which have nothing to do with the recognition of the charter of fundamental rights, which have nothing to do with the rule of law, which have nothing to do with the values of the european union, then this is a pulverization. we should not only ask you, mr president, to make a clear and unequivocal call in the council for the commission and the council to carry out a review on the basis of article 7 and article 2, but i also ask the members of the european people's party to do so. we are discussing a new statute and the financing of european political parties. they are essentially designed to promote the values of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the greens reject the result of the vote in its present form. it's a backwards-looking house. it is shaped by national interests. what is missing in the council is a genuine european common interest. there is a lack of european foresight. what we really need to create new competitiveness is something like a green industrial revolution, a major ecological transformation. it is the only way to create new jobs and responsible, sustainable products. i shall now turn to the irish presidency. you are asking for consolidation, but do you know what actually happened in the council? the council is calling for a 10% cut in the european budget. what is germany doing? they are increasing the budget by 0.3%, in france they are simply freezing it, in the uk they are even increasing it. there are two kinds of measurements. that is wrong, that is un-european! where's the money coming from? it must come from new own resources, in particular from the financial transaction tax. it must be put into the european budget. this is also a clear answer to our citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question that arises when you listen to this is: who will be the most credible advocate of the european project? the one who's now clamoring for more money and saying no to everything? the one who's always messing around when things go wrong? or the one that proves that what we've done is gradual, maybe too slow, but still shows success. i believe that anyone who can show that our decisions are successful will enhance the credibility of the european project. president barroso of the commission has just said - and i think it has been given far too little attention - that budget deficits are going down by half, interest rates are going down, balance of payments deficits are going down, exports are going up, confidence is going up. i imagine that's what good politics is all about. this does not involve a loud, loud refusal or a loud no, but a well-thought-out response. the differentiated answer, which i very much support, is that we want to change the budget where it is necessary, in terms of flexibility, in terms of the revision clauses, in terms of own resources - that is precisely where we want changes. but don't you talk around here! the solution is not to say: we will create new green jobs and then we will look around and destroy the remaining jobs along the way. what is this concept? no, if we want growth and jobs, we must unfortunately also take the arduous path of saying: we are saving, we are making efforts, we are making structural reforms, we are helping where there is great need, also in the field of youth unemployment - the concept is right! the prize is not awarded to those who come up with a new idea every day, but to those who persevere, who work systematically and who can show at the end that this europe, this work, has paid off! i'm really tired of this constant whining. it is only damaging to the european project. to work harder, to persevere more, to tell a little about how it paid off, that would be rewarding! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. my dear colleague! if you look at the decisions of the last months and years, you will see that the decisions taken here by sixpack and twopack were taken with our support. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the needs of the community and to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the needs of the member states. i see less blame on the epp. it wasn't always right, but basically, we were on the right track. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the commissioner: mr reul, you are very welcome. i agree with you on many points. however, we have agreed here in parliament that we believe we need more impetus for growth, more impetus for innovation, a different focus. the council has refused to grant discharge for years. so my specific question to you is: was your statement a 'yes, but' or a 'no, but' or do we agree that this mff still needs to be improved and changed?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the commission is not firstly, i have said that i believe that this mff must be changed, that it must be improved, in the methodological questions, in the instrumental questions - i have said three of them. that is why i shall vote in favour of changing them in these places. secondly, i think the wording of the 'no' is wrong. i think this is a false signal. i believe that the negotiations are not about the amount of money, but about the instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the council's proposal for the mff, which it presented on 8 february, has driven the eu further and further into crisis. but crises are also opportunities. this crisis could be an opportunity to take the democratization of the european union a major step forward, namely by extending the current mff by two years so that the members of the next parliamentary term have the opportunity to vote on their own mff. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. this would be an important and good democratic step forward, because then the members of parliament could decide on their own financial affairs in each election period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the right of parliament and not of governments!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard many times before this council that we are on the road to recovery, that the crisis is over, that the worst is over. but if you look at the balance sheets of banks and you see the increasing proportion of bad loans in the crisis countries, you are very worried. i can only warn against any negligence! that is why it is crucial that we move forward with the banking union. the joint supervisory role must be established so that there can be no more delay in discussing how to deal with the losses in the books. but this also means that parliament is still prepared to discuss the individual questions at the request of the council. there's flexibility here. but where there is no flexibility is in the question of democratic rights. if we are to organise the banking union in a european manner, it must also be democratically controlled in a european manner. that is, we need the appointment rights for the chairman and the vice-chairman of the supervisory board, we need strong investigative rights and we need the right to inspect files as well. there will be no democracy discount!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question arises whether the planned multiannual financial framework is really the right answer to the crises we are facing in europe. shouldn't we be spending as much energy on raising incomes as we are spending on saving? it is in the fields of employment and social policy that the european funds and programmes really play a major role in getting people into work. it is therefore necessary to provide for a minimum esf quota. otherwise we risk the failure of this fund to fulfil its task. as rapporteur for the social change and innovation programme, i would like to give you a brief overview of what the cuts mean: less money for the progress sub-programme means less money for the implementation of the eu 2020 strategies for job creation, social protection and social inclusion. do you think less money for your sub-programme, less money for mobility, will help us overcome the skills shortage? or will less money for micro-credit to start businesses help us overcome the problems? we need a multiannual financial framework which does not ignore problems but solves them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution to be adopted today will be the final start of the negotiations with the irish presidency on the multiannual financial framework. of course, the question of how we can promote growth and employment also comes first, namely better legislation. we have a lot of work to do to make legislation more favourable to smes and to organise it in such a way that there are no additional costs for cities, municipalities and länder in times of budgetary consolidation, and the commission must also align its proposals much more closely with this priority. but it is also true that, with a multiannual financial framework of eur 960 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 908 billion in payment appropriations, this budget is important because it is the only way for many member states to implement their investment programmes. the third point i have to make is that such a budget cannot finance certain european priorities, and that must be said openly and clearly. it is not enough to finance the common objective of spending 3% of gnp on research and development in europe, we will not achieve that! we are not thereby meeting the international commitment to allocate 0.7% of gnp to development policy. and we also know that large projects such as iter and gmes are already underfunded by the european council's figures. i would also ask the council to identify the negative priorities, because this budgetary framework is not in line with the decisions taken by the european council itself over the last ten years. with this resolution - and i expect we will have a large majority in favour - we are documenting our firm will to negotiate swiftly, openly and honestly on our priorities, which you all know, from flexibility to revision and the unity of the budget to the own resources which deserve the name. but the council must be accommodating to parliament, because in the end the council can only decide unanimously after we have given our consent by an absolute majority, and the council side should be aware of this.
mr helmer, you have come to the rules of procedure.
mr atkins, first of all, to the question you have asked. i assume you are referring to the vote on the common agricultural policy and the amendments to it. i have referred this list of amendments back to the committee on agriculture and rural development last week with a request that it be reconsidered and that the number of amendments be reduced. this meeting has taken place. at this meeting the committee on agriculture again failed to reduce this number. i have therefore no choice but to put it to the vote here now, because we have to have the vote at some point. it is not for the house to refer the matter back to committee. this is a sovereign decision of the plenary. if you want to apply for that, you can do that. but i have referred the matter back to the rules of procedure and not put it on the agenda, but as the committee on agriculture is on the list, i have no choice.
mr atkins, the procedure under the rules of procedure is as follows: as soon as the vote is called, you can put this motion to the vote. you know the procedure, you're an experienced colleague. ladies and gentlemen, i will see that the united kingdom flag is displayed in its proper form and will have all the other flags checked to see that they are displayed correctly.
i have been reminded by colleagues from all the political groups that we did not have the opportunity yesterday to recall that on 12 march 2003 - that is, exactly ten years ago yesterday - the then serbian prime minister, zoran đinđić, was the victim of a terrible assassination attempt. mr đinđić was a visionary pro-european statesman as prime minister of serbia and as representative of the serbian people. his murder was a great loss to all of europe. i would like to thank the colleagues who have drawn my attention to this and say that even ten years after the murder of zoran đinđić, this great man is not forgotten. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, i'm sure you're all aware of the serious incident that has taken place here. our colleague papastamkos has suffered a medically serious breakdown. i'm not in a position to tell you at this time what the final diagnosis is, but it's certainly something to take seriously. i would like to thank those who have taken care of mr papastamkos. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which i am sure will be very helpful to the commission. i hope this help will also help mr. papastamkos. (applause from the centre) mr. papastamkos is in the hospital now. i have to repeat, i can't give you a definitive diagnosis. as soon as we have a diagnosis from the hospital, i will inform you of the nature of the incident and the seriousness of the matter, of course with the necessary discretion. but i have to tell you again: mr. papastamkos' condition is very serious. i have informed the family of mr. papastamkos. his wife is on her way to strasbourg. i have been told by a number of colleagues, and i think they are right, that we must think about the way in which we vote in this house. (applause from the centre) i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we cannot put reports in the form in which we have put them to the vote today, in the voluminous form in which we have put them to the vote, in this form. i had referred this report back to the committee because i thought it was overloaded. the committee was not able to reduce the number of amendments. i must also tell you that virtually all the groups have given me the signal that they want this vote. a colleague asked for a delay this morning. this extension has been rejected. that means that we all have to think about it, without anyone being to blame, but we have to think about whether we can find other ways to avoid voting here for hours on end, where - let's be honest - at the end of the vote you often don't even remember what you voted on at the beginning. but keeping track is very difficult. i will therefore be discussing with my colleagues in the conference of presidents and also in the bureau how we can improve this. i cannot promise a quick solution, but one thing is clear: we should draw the consequences and think about them! i believe i speak for all of you when i say that those who can pray will pray and those who hope will hope that our colleague papastamkos will return to our ranks in good health. thank you for your attention. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. i very much welcome the fact that the eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, held discussions with representatives of the egyptian government in february to see where specifically different pieces of legislation could be supported by us. you've already pointed this out in detail. i would like to emphasize one situation today: that there is always excessive and disproportionate violence against demonstrators. police and military personnel are rarely held accountable. it seems they're above the law. since mubarak's ouster, more than 130 people have died in protests, and thousands have been seriously injured. the eu must raise this issue in all its discussions and insist on changes. in this situation, it is totally irresponsible for member states to authorise exports of arms to egypt, including small arms ammunition or armoured vehicles which can also be used to fight protesters. this is totally incompatible with a human rights oriented policy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i spoke in tahrir square in cairo in early march 2011 to wonderful young people who were standing up for their dignity, for democracy, for freedom and for justice; and we were all very confident. today we see that this egypt, for which we have so much sympathy, is on a slippery slope away from freedom and democracy. madam vice-president, you spoke of the ngos. there is a new draft from the ministry of social affairs with 25 articles that take away the breathing space of ngos about 41 000 in egypt and prohibit all political activity. the ngo draft of the parliament, chaired by anwar al-sadat, the nephew of the murdered president, which was dissolved, is not mentioned. and anwar al-sadat says about this new draft from the ministry of social affairs: the muslim brotherhood is trapped in old thinking, they want to control everything. in this way, it will suffocate civil society. we demand from president morsi what he promised: that there be a public debate on this ngo law from the ministry of social affairs, and that the new parliament to be elected decides on it. we demand freedom of religion, not only for muslims, but also for christians. we demand the suspension of the death penalty. we are in favour of dialogue with the government, but with a clear message. we're all for help, but on some conditions. human rights must be respected. we encourage you, madam vice-president, to do so if you are to make this happen.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, north korea remains the most isolated country in the world and one of the most hostile to its neighbours. its people, apart from a small elite, suffer daily deprivation. an insufficient food supply keeps them dependent on international donors. despite a third generation of leaders, some inconclusive attempts at economic reform and a changed global context, there does not appear to be any positive change. while the people suffer, the regime squanders resources on a large military and on developing sophisticated offensive weapons. the six-party talks, which could offer the country a way out of its isolation, remain stalled. despite hopes for change under new leadership, north korea appears determined to continue its long running programme to develop a ballistic nuclear weapon capability. honourable members, we witnessed a rocket launch in december 2012 and a nuclear test in february. these provocative actions were followed by a series of threats when the international community protested. we have condemned in the strongest possible terms the latest nuclear tests. they pose a blatant challenge to the global non-proliferation regime and a serious threat to lasting peace. at the same time we and the united states have consistently made clear that if the north korea took the path of engagement and positive change, we would respond. i have raised the issues that really concerned me about democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk) with my us and chinese opposite numbers. in particular i have strongly encouraged china to exert pressure on the regime in pyongyang. this will be high on my agenda when i visit china next month to develop relationships with the new leadership. we of course remain in touch with south korea and the new south korean administration has expressed clear willingness to adopt a policy of engagement. honourable members will also note what china has been saying recently in stepping up its dialogue. the international community, working through the security council, has shown unprecedented unity in sending clear messages to the dprk that it will not accept continued violations of the international non-proliferation regime. un security council resolution 2094 agreed on 7 march 2013 to impose a range of new restrictive measures, particularly in the financial sector. it makes clear that the un security council will take further action if north korea continues to flout international rules. i really welcome the diplomatic efforts of the united staes and those of china and russia which made unity in the un security council possible and who, as immediate neighbours, have important interests at stake. we have strongly and consistently supported the six-party talks over the years. we both have economic and security interests in the region too. we have supported the un regime and systematically imposed sanctions following the security council resolutions after the nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009 and most recently december 2012 and february 2013. after the most recent events, we have prepared new measures in line with the security council resolution: a ban on key components for the ballistic missile sector, trade in conventional arms and some financial transactions by the north korean central bank and other government bodies. we remain determined to take action in response to new provocations – the latest of which is north korea’s unilateral declaration that the 1953 armistice is ‘invalid’ and leader kim jong-un threatens to ‘wipe out’ a small south korean island, as a priority target in the event of military conflict. honourable members, this sort of provocation is totally unacceptable and this is precisely the reason why the 18 february 2013 foreign affairs council adopted a new package of restrictive measures, which further reinforced the measures adopted by the security council on 22 january 2013. we remain deeply worried about human rights situation in north korea. we will co-sponsor the resolution with japan in the human rights council in geneva on establishing a commission of enquiry into human rights violations there. meanwhile, we have provided assistance to people in the dprk on purely humanitarian grounds. in 2011, we provided eur 10 million to respond to urgent food needs channelled through the world food programme. this assistance was directed to the most vulnerable people to improve the feeding of children less than five years of age in orphanages, pregnant women, elderly and disabled people. we will continue to assist the un in its efforts to keep the international community united. this is the only way we can uphold the non-proliferation regime and support the people in north korea, who deserve better.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. baroness ashton, i want to thank you very much for what you have presented today and what has been achieved in the last few weeks. north korea is a feudal country that exploits, oppresses and subjects its own people to incredible suffering, unlike almost anywhere else in the world, but a country that is also aggressive. if such a country designs, builds and tests nuclear weapons against the rules and combines this with a missile programme for long-range missiles, then a high alert is called for. if at the same time, as you said, the 1953 armistice agreement is cancelled, all the lines of contact that could stop accidental conflicts are cut, all communications are cut, troops are pulled together, then these are events of immediate danger that we have not had anywhere in recent years. there is the immediate danger of war from such a regime, but there are also the long-term effects that can change the whole region. because if a state of this aggressiveness has this nuclear capability, it will also have dramatic effects throughout the region, to the point of other states wanting to have nuclear weapons to defend themselves. i think that would be the end of the non-proliferation treaty. if we include iran, we are at a dramatic crossroads where nuclear weapons are becoming the normal tool of every state. this has brought the threat of nuclear war to a level never before known. here, you said it right, china plays a crucial role. it's good that china is involved in this and that they've been involved in this. but it is only with china, on which korea depends so heavily in so many ways, that it is possible to exert pressure here. so i would encourage you to talk to china about this right now and convince the decision makers that they can take further action here to get the message to pyongyang.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details. exactly two years ago, an earthquake off the east coast of japan brought home to us the dangers to mankind that will exist if we do not begin to banish nuclear technology. that applies to their peaceful use. but this is even more true of their use to achieve political-military objectives. the consequences of nuclear radiation are always devastating for man! we have already had to make these concrete experiences in hiroshima and nagasaki, in chernobyl, harrisburg and fukushima. but anyone who seriously threatens to use nuclear weapons against humans today should be clearly put on the backburner. parliament must make it unequivocally clear that there is no right to a pre-emptive strike by means of nuclear weapons. there is no such thing in any national law, let alone in international law. this applies to all countries of the world. this is clearly true of the dprk as well. we must not lose sight of the fact that the developments on the korean peninsula are not taking place in the open and outside of history. they have deep roots that go back more than half a century. the nuclear missile weapons in korea are not the cause but the consequence of this conflict. however, in the ongoing logic of confrontation on the korean peninsula, they have in the meantime become part of the conflict. even if we differ on this point, we must be clear that a solution to this conflict can only be found in the context of a complex political settlement in the region, in which china and the usa, in particular, must play a direct and de-escalating role and, as so-called protecting powers, also bear political responsibility. in order to ensure that the minimum requirements are met, ... (the president shall remove the speaker from the floor.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the nuclear saber rattling is extremely dangerous. we must do everything to ensure a peaceful and nuclear-free korean peninsula. i share what has been said by my colleagues so far. but i think it's not enough to talk about it. north korea is a dictatorship that holds all its citizens in fear, dependence and captivity. there is no freedom to travel, either within the country or outside the country. the people are victims of a stone age communism which does not allow freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, democracy - nothing that would be an expression of human freedom. the un special rapporteur on the situation in north korea speaks of gross human rights violations in nine different areas, ranging from the right to life, to health, to food, to torture and disappearances in huge prison camps, to public executions in which women and children are forced to watch, and much more. what we need, therefore, beyond the response to this nuclear provocation, which can also be a distraction, is the immediate setting up of a united nations commission of inquiry to investigate the human rights situation in north korea in all its aspects as early as march and then to take the next steps permitted by international law and international law.
mr president, the honourable member is right. we have dealt with the human rights situation in north korea in the human rights committee and have very much welcomed the eu's choice of north korea as a focus of the human rights council. we welcome even more that you have helped to have a special commission set up to investigate the serious human rights violations there. in particular, i would like to emphasise that there is evidence that the political prison camps - estimated to hold some 200 000 people - are expanding; there are satellite images. and we have to assume that there are not only adults but also children who are exposed to hard forced labor and also to food deprivation. i believe that the eu's priority is to tell everyone about the existence of these political prison camps and to press for changes in their conditions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's a coincidence that we're discussing mali at the same time as the new pope is being announced. the last time we were in mali, we were in the joint parliamentary assembly. during this meeting, the pope was also announced. there's obviously some connection between mali and the pope. what i was going to say was: the crisis in mali should make us realize once again how important it is that we as the european union finally put to use the whole toolbox we have given ourselves in foreign, security and defence policy. it has become clear that we cannot always rely on one member state to go ahead and then remove the coal from the fire on behalf of everyone, or that next time we will randomly put together another coalition of the willing, hoping that we will actually get our interests pushed through. that should give us something to think about. we should appeal in particular to all the member states concerned - and this certainly includes my own - to implement the decisions we have taken, and i would just like to point out that the council of december 2008 decided on a level of ambition. secondly, i believe it is important that we strengthen cooperation with the african union and with regional organisations, including in the field of preventive cooperation. we need to train their troops before the crisis, not after it. we must ensure that neighbours in africa can also practice together, so that when crises arise, they do not have to wait and hope for something to come from europe or elsewhere. i hope that we can actually achieve this cooperation with the african union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i had hoped to welcome mr vlasenko here in strasbourg. i invited him to come here after following the trial in kiev last week and then hearing at the end that he had lost his mandate but was allowed to continue as a lawyer. what is more appropriate than inviting him to strasbourg, because part of his work will also take place before the european court of human rights in strasbourg, because he naturally wants to continue to be the defence counsel for mrs tymoshenko. he can't travel. this is not a court decision, but a decision that has evolved. in addition to this story about mr wlasenko, there are the two other colleagues of ours in the kiev parliament who lost their mandates in a similarly dubious way as mr wlasenko. the colleagues are dombrowski and baloga. you should know the names of these people. they come from different political families or are independent candidates. the big problem we keep describing is the lack of the rule of law. i think we have to explain it a little bit better to the ukrainians, we have to explain it a little bit better to president yanukovych: in a constitutional state, the voters decide who sits in a parliament, and that also applies to a legislative term. and it is only by following very strict rules that this will of the electorate can be corrected. in a state governed by the rule of law, the voters will of course also decide whether or not mrs tymoshenko has pursued a good energy policy. it is up to the voters to decide whether mr luzenko has pursued a good domestic policy or not. in ukraine, it is now customary to drag political opponents to court, and in case of doubt, to put them in jail. and this is indeed politically motivated justice, it is the return of the soviet principle that the law is set by the majority, and this is totally unacceptable from a european point of view. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i congratulate you on your capacity for suffering. because i have the impression that yanukovych and his cronies are simply humiliating you. they will be offered solutions to the acute problems, then they will find confident words at the eu-ukraine summit. but as soon as you are home, the actual national agenda starts moving like an old soviet clockwork: the new murder charge in kharkiv, the lawyer cannot defend because he is just being accidentally removed from his mandate and this process itself is being carried out in defiance of the verkhovna rada's own procedures. the one who orchestrates this clockwork is yanukovych. there is no independent judiciary, not even parliament can escape influence. i think that's what we need to get clear on. there is a ukraine towards europe when this government stops governing its own people in this way, but also stops communicating with europe in this way. this message must be repeated over and over again. and if mr yanukovych does not understand that, then we must tell the people of ukraine that we want them, but we should not accept that this government takes their people hostage and says, look here, there are 45 million, you do not want to let them go with us alone towards the soviet union. that's a very insidious way of saying we should accept them as they are. we don't have to!
question for the commissioner: the commission is not prepared to accept this. not only have mps been deprived of their mandates, but also, for example, a supreme court judge. are you aware of the judgment delivered by the european court of human rights in strasbourg in january in the case of mr volkow, who was also removed from office? the court has ordered that he be reinstated. will you ask the government to do the same, to reinstate him as chief justice?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr menendez del valle is right and mr hegel was wrong: china is one of the great countries of this century. we like to talk about a strategic partnership between the eu and china. if we look at this soberly, we must realize that there is a lot to be improved. on our side, we are far too often a choir of many voices, if not of dissonance. and on the chinese side, i sometimes get the impression that too often the game is played with individual member states rather than with the eu as a whole. we should develop a strategic partnership, if only because we have common challenges, for example from climate and ecological transformation to a sustainable economy. this strategic partnership must be developed on equal footing, and there is no room for european arrogance or inappropriate bowing to chinese pretensions. there are tensions between europe and china, and this too must be clearly stated, in the economic sphere for example. we should be very careful about some of these tensions, so as not to cause unnecessary escalation, for example in the debate on photovoltaics. but we should also be very clear about the european interests. there are important cooperation with china. that is what commissioner füle has been talking about. we're supposed to develop them. there are concerns on our side, for example, about self-immolation in tibet and gansu, or about developments in the maritime area of east asia, where china seems to be changing both tone and attitude. but there are also hopes, for example, that the national people's congress might change environmental policy, or that the system of forced labor without a court order, the laojiao system, might actually be abolished. and the hope that europe and china will be reliable partners in a peaceful, multilateral world order, in which we both have much to gain from good cooperation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i am convinced, mr president, that partnership is not a matter of choice. we are forced to develop this partnership. but i'm specifically talking about us developing a partnership. i'm not talking about us fooling ourselves.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and mr belder, i would like to thank you for your work. the report is not enough, despite all the arguments and debates that have been made. i would have liked him to have already indicated the prospects for a common strategy of cooperation in the face of the growing interdependencies, interdependencies and common challenges of the 21st century. i also have to take account of the 60 dialogues that are currently being held. in four days, the people's congress will complete the orderly personnel change of the chinese leadership. the congress will confirm the guidelines for china's future policy outlined by the communist party of china at its 18th party congress. he will also make it clear that continuity remains a key word in the relationship with the eu. the discussions and decisions in beijing, however, show a clear rebalancing of the course of modernization and reform. the keynote of a new development philosophy is to address the social problems, the environmental burdens and the regional imbalances which are also seen as the result of the most unbridled growth to date. this is new. economic and social developments should be brought into line, and domestic demand, and in particular individual consumption, should be used as a motor for economic growth. in addition, environmental concerns and citizens' interests are being made the imperative for a critical rethinking of the current logic of economic growth, as well as the future way of expanding the social security systems still under construction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new, increased and ever-growing responsibility of china in the world has been the subject of much discussion this evening. but i would like to return to china's responsibility in trade policy, which i believe is growing in the face of the increasingly better economic development in china and which we should keep on pointing out to china. we are seeing china pursuing a ruthless strategy of industrialization. unfortunately, china is largely ignoring people, the environment and other important issues. and we see that this industrial strategy is also making life difficult for us in europe. but we also see that in china, with the capitalist economy, with the centralized control, there are bubbles. we see that this leads to the chinese deliberately trying to make life difficult for certain economic sectors in europe. we are concerned about this, and it is a recurring theme in our international negotiations with china. on the other hand, we should be almost glad that the chinese have this inefficient economic system. because if the chinese, for example, had put all the money they have invested in the far-out expansion of the solar sector in a sensible way, if they had also invested in other sectors and had not misdirected them by the state, then the chinese economy would make life difficult for us not only in the field of solar cells, but also in other sectors. and that's why i'm almost grateful that the chinese still rely on this inefficient system. but we should remind the chinese more and more of their commitments. they are members of the wto, which means they are obliged to finally open up their public procurement. the investment sector needs to improve. we need to get away from the forced joint ventures and other things. and we really should remind the chinese that wto membership brings not only rights but also obligations. i would be grateful if the commission could do something about it, and i would be grateful, in view of developments in korea, if the commission could also ask the chinese to do even better and in the common interest on the north korean question.
question for the commissioner: - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i wanted to ask you how much money china has pumped into europe and where your information comes from.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. now that your time is up, i would like to ask you if you would mind using the 30 seconds you will get from my inquiry to finish a part of your speech. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when our former colleague otto von habsburg wrote in the 1950s that china would develop independently and be an antipode to the soviet bloc, he was fired by all the newspapers he was a columnist for at the time, except the vorarlberg news. in the 1960s, great strategists such as alain peyrefitte, franz-josef strauss and others also foresaw this development. and china has developed completely on its own. it's not just a huge nation, it's actually a continent. on the other hand, the massacre in the square of heavenly peace happened to be on my 33rd birthday and i learned about this massacre in prague, which was still communist at the time. i was reading the morning star in wenceslas square and saw how the eastern bloc communists justified the crimes of their comrades in china, with whom they were supposedly at enmity. why am i mentioning this? china cannot be seen only in terms of geostrategy and economics, nor in purely ideological terms. we must look at china in a holistic strategic approach. the late pope benedict always wanted to make religious freedom and human rights in china a focus of his pontificate. we must hope that the pope francis elected today will be the one in whose era that becomes a reality. but we must be clear that china will always take its own independent development. and only if we as europeans take a holistic approach to our relations with china and bring europe as a bloc into these negotiations will we achieve anything vis-à-vis china. china is more interested in us than we think. it is blocking the recognition of kosovo in the un security council. however, it has its own information office in pristina. this shows the interest in developments in europe, and so we must also address china in detail and with a grand strategy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it has been said many times that the schengen acquis and the cvm are two different things. but that's just theoretical talk. it's not practical. in practice, this means that we have and are establishing two classes of member states. and that's the way it is right now. we cannot be satisfied with that! that is why we say: equal treatment for all member states, old and new. secondly, the commission has explicitly acknowledged in the cvm that romania has made progress in judicial reform, the rule of law and the fight against corruption, although there are still shortcomings. romania is making serious efforts to combat corruption - this is really evident - and unlike germany, which is so keen to fight corruption, it has at least ratified the un convention against corruption, thus belonging to the majority and not to the minority. the third point: i would like the commission to answer a few questions: what is the legal basis for the breadth and the generality of the report it is presenting? and what are the really objectionable criteria on which romania should now work concretely? when are the requirements to be met considered to have been met and the objectives set to be achieved? what are the time windows for these countries? i can tell you frankly that we are completely opposed to an open-ended strategy for bulgaria and romania. and the last point: honesty also includes admitting that it's not just about the corruption problem, but also about immigration and that is being used to push a state into second class.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. we shall again call on the commission today to do something to present a statute for a european mutual society. in 2006, there was a proposal for a regulation which had to be withdrawn because of strong opposition from member states. we hope that the member states will be able to reach agreement this time, because unfortunately unanimity is required. what are mutual societies? these are voluntary associations of natural or legal persons whose aim is to meet the needs of their members rather than to make a profit. so it's about solidarity, not profit. 250 million citizens are affected because they belong to national mutual societies in their member states. the mutual societies account for 25% of the insurance industry, and here especially in the so-called social sector, that is to say in the health sector, in care, in pensions, in the whole of social welfare. what's the problem? it is because, for example, in six of the 27 member states we have no mutual societies at all and they face great difficulties in operating across borders because they do not have the appropriate legal form and because it is not possible at present to set up a mutual society between legal persons or natural persons from different member states. the final objective is the completion of the internal market. we hope that this will also lead to more growth, because these national mutual societies could grow more if they could become international. the term social economy has been used here, which we do not know in german. it's french. the term is best translated as these mutual societies are active in the social field, although this is not an exact translation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the veto investigation has uncovered one of the biggest betting scandals in european sporting history: at least 380 football matches are said to have been rigged in europe, almost 700 worldwide, and europol believes this is just the tip of the iceberg. we cannot yet say what other sports are affected. the scandal is a slap in the face to every football fan. sport teaches basic values such as fairness, team spirit and acceptance of rules, which are fundamental to our societies. corruption and manipulation threaten these positive core values and destroy the very substance of sport. fans must be able to rely on their team to win or lose a fair game. fair play must therefore not only be promoted but also lived. we need a mix of prevention, surveillance, but also sanctions. we therefore call on the sports federations to adopt a zero-tolerance policy based on a code of conduct for all involved and also to establish a comprehensive prevention programme. sports are not just about winning and losing, but, as we have seen, they are also about making a lot of money. therefore, live sports betting, where you can bet online and anonymously on ever-changing odds and bizarre events, is highly susceptible to manipulation and should be outright prohibited. we need a uniform definition of game manipulation and game manipulation must also be included in the criminal law of the member states. we need to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies and we also need to legislate at european level. i would like to thank the commissioner for her comments and hope that our resolution will help us to see the fruits of our joint work soon and that game manipulation in europe and worldwide will be a thing of the past.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, let me thank all the honourable members for this opportunity to discuss, here today, how best to combat one of the major threats that organised sport is facing today: match-fixing; and i do assure you, ms bozkurt, that we are also very, very concerned. we have been confronted in the past few months with reports and press articles about various episodes of match-fixing across europe. we have learnt that match-fixing is a global phenomenon spanning several continents and often involving organised criminal networks. it applies to big and small clubs alike and it involves different actors: vulnerable young players, coaches, even parents, and many other actors. this is, as has been said by many of you, a transnational problem which needs a transnational solution. sports authorities have called on us to act to help them to protect the integrity of their competitions. i have replied to their call and shown that the commission is ready to act. it is not an easy task to fight against a complex issue such as match-fixing. i have been working closely with my colleagues in charge of the betting industry and the fight against corruption to forge a common position of the commission in this field. we have ensured support for prevention activities carried out by interested parties. we have also facilitated coordination and cooperation amongst the relevant actors at eu level: betting industries, police forces, judicial authorities and sports movements. the big task ahead of us is to improve this cooperation, to allow for a more effective prevention and fight against match-fixing and to extend it to the international level. good governance is also very important and we now have an expert group working on the good governance of sporting clubs, which will issue its guidelines in 2014. we are now involved in discussions for a possible convention of the council of europe against the manipulation of sports competitions. it is a long process, but we are confident that the result of the negotiations will constitute a step in the right direction. we are also discussing with unesco how to place the fight against match-fixing higher on the global agenda for sport. indeed, match-fixing will be one of the topics addressed at the world conference of sports ministers in berlin in may this year. i need parliament’s support in this process, and i would like to thank members for the positive contributions they made during this debate. fighting match-fixing is a hard task. we can succeed if we remain united in our determination and work together towards this goal. before i finish, mr president, i would like to say that i will not accept anyone calling the commission corrupt. i meant to ask the member who uttered those words to apologise, but unfortunately she left earlier, after delivering her address. i must say that i hope other members do not agree with her remarks.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr moreira, mrs muscardini and mr cutas and the committee on international trade (inta) for their resolution on sustainability in the global cotton value chain. i would like to begin by stressing the eu’s commitment to the cotton sector. despite the fact that greece and spain generate 1% of world production, the eu accounts for 15% of world consumption and a quarter of world imports. this is a consequence of the existence of a strong cotton-processing industry in the eu. the eu is in fact a net exporter of cotton goods. as well as being of key importance for the eu textile industry, eu support to the cotton sector in developing countries is significant. the eu is the main donor to the african cotton sector, contributing eur 50-60 million annually. a recent evaluation pointed to cotton as a success story among commodities. it is therefore an anomaly that the eu has not yet become a member of the international cotton advisory committee (icac). in fact, icac is one of the few international commodity boards of which the eu is not yet a member. i am confident that this situation will soon be redressed. icac has a good track record in performing its role as a vehicle to promote market development and transparency in the cotton sector. it also plays its part in fostering best practices and has a valuable role in providing statistical information. it offers a forum for policy discussions on cotton at a global level. it is important that the eu accedes rapidly to icac; the eu has exclusive competence in such bodies by virtue of treaty provisions on trade. as such, it can speak with one voice and present a coherent and consistent vision of how the eu sees issues affecting cotton. membership of icac will allow the eu to put forward its concerns on a number of issues, such as labour conditions, the degree to which plant protection products such as pesticides are used, the management of the related risks and how to address the potential environmental effects of such products. it will also give european growers, ginners, traders and researchers a forum within which to air their concerns. the commission is working closely with the council to ensure that membership can take place under the best possible conditions. discussions are now taking place to pave the way for membership by the middle of next year. icac is expected to ratify changes to its rules and regulations during icac’s annual plenary meeting, which will take place in september or at the beginning of october 2013 in colombia. the matter will then return to council, and parliament will be asked to give its assent. the problem of child labour goes well beyond the cotton sector. when the eu acceded to the international cocoa agreement of 2010 this issue was a factor and the commission raised its concerns on that occasion. unfortunately, the nature of many commodities, and the fact that their production takes place in countries where opportunities are limited, means that child labour is a feature of their production. article 32 of the un convention on the rights of the child, ratified by the eu, gives children the right to be protected from economic exploitation and from child labour. nevertheless, we know that child labour continues, and we also see forced labour in the cotton sector. the commission therefore welcomes the interest shown by meps in tackling this issue. following the adoption of the council conclusions on child labour, the commission reiterated its commitment to fighting child labour and agreed on a number of concrete initiatives. the commission’s working document on combating child labour presents an overview of the eu instruments in place to fight child labour. the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy of june 2012 represents a significant aspect of the eu’s human rights policy. it includes an action plan for the promotion and protection of children’s rights up to 31 december 2014. the eu remains committed to working to eradicate the worst forms of child labour at global level, and to ensuring that a child’s education is not sacrificed at the altar of the need to work, and that children’s physical and emotional development is not adversely affected. there are a wide range of instruments addressing normative, trade, technical and development assistance issues such as the development cooperation instrument, the european instruments for democracy and human rights, the european development fund and the generalised system of preferences. in addition, the eu is committed to addressing child trafficking in a large number of initiatives both within the eu and third countries. directive 2011/36/eu constitutes the eu legal framework underpinning the best interests of the child principle. furthermore, the new eu strategy towards the eradication of trafficking in human beings 2012-2016 identifies child labour as a root cause of trafficking in human beings. finally, the commission’s communication on social protection in eu development cooperation provides the policy framework contributing to improved social assistance and the prevention of child labour and economic exploitation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the international cotton advisory committee, as we have heard, includes countries producing and consuming cotton and countries trading in cotton. the committee is strongly supporting these regions in promoting a sound cotton industry worldwide by providing a great deal of technical assistance. i very much hope that the european union will join very soon. it is imperative that we, the european union, and not just some of our member states, should soon be represented with voting rights in this body. why do we need this? we need this because we still have a number of problems in the cotton sector, ranging from environmental pollution which should not be, to an issue which is a constant concern for us across the political groups and which also affects us personally when we see the incredible suffering and misery of the many children who are still working in cotton production in many countries today. we must do something urgently to help these young people, these children, and also the other people in the countries. they usually take their children to the fields not because they want to, but because of economic hardship or because the governments force them to. i am therefore very grateful to my colleagues muscardini and cutaş for taking the initiative here, for having once again drawn our attention to the subject and paved the way here in parliament, and for having come here with a large majority of our group members. i would be glad, madam commissioner, if the commission were to implement parliament's demands really soon, so that on the one hand this misery is eliminated and on the other hand, as i said, we can speak with a european voice in this body as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not a few days ago, five members of the clean clothes campaign were arrested in cambodia for participating in a protest by textile workers. they were protesting the previous unlawful dismissal of 41 workers and the attack with iron pipe rods and wooden sticks with nails. the company for which these people produced is a supplier of, among other things, spirits and diesel. this is just one example of the incredible working conditions in the textile and cotton industries. the textile fires last year are a terrible example of this. but companies and governments seem to be unconcerned about cosmetic changes. many european companies are major consumers of textiles produced under inadequate conditions. in my view, these companies - and therefore we as european legislators - bear a major responsibility for these disasters. we could regulate these companies better and we could set better standards. we just have to want to! voluntary commitments do not help here. we need binding rules on corporate responsibility. the eu must work within the international cotton advisory committee to improve monitoring of human rights violations in the cotton and textile sector. more transparency is also needed. consumers in europe need to know the conditions under which their clothes are made. the resolution is very good. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. it lists many of these measures, but we must finally start putting them into practice.
the commission has already done so. the commissioner has said that we are the main consumers of cotton production and processing. and from this, one can also derive a special responsibility. we all buy products that have been produced under inhuman conditions in countries where cotton production is based on child labour and environmental damage. this can't be real anymore! we must be sure that when we buy cotton products, the production also meets our values. it is therefore right that we join now and raise our voice as the european union. but it is equally important that we commit our european companies to putting the whole value chain of cotton production and processing more closely under the banner of responsible business policy. we need binding guidelines, perhaps from the oecd, to ensure that there is no child labour, no environmental damage and no degrading working conditions throughout the value chain. i would ask the commission once again to speak to business europe and to ask european companies to make a commitment on this matter and to bring clear certification of their products to the market so that we can be sure of our buying behaviour in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank all the honourable members for this opportunity to discuss cotton today. the eu’s membership of international commodity boards is very important, all the more so in the case of cotton where we have a considerable eu presence. by having international presence as the eu, we have yet another forum open to us to promote eu concerns on important issues such as child labour. we will ensure that we do this. we need to explore all avenues to ensure that such practices cease. i have taken note of all the remarks made by members and will forward their concerns to all relevant commissioners. i wish to thank them once again for their interest and support in this matter.
yesterday, seven men were executed in saudi arabia. it is most regrettable that the saudi authorities have ignored the concerns and protests of the international community and of our parliament. the rejection of the death penalty is one of the fundamental values of the european union and its abolition is one of the central objectives of our human rights policy. parliament condemned in the strongest terms the execution of the seven men.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. before the vote:
i would like to thank mr salatto. i'm sure the whole house shares your feelings about mr. papastamkos. all our best wishes go with him. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is necessary to change the year, because we have already decided that 2015 should be the european year of development. therefore i propose, together with the other shadows, the following oral amendment ‘supports the commission in its plan to declare 2016 the european year of integration.’ so we have only changed the year.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mrs sinclaire, we are proceeding as we would normally have done. i now come to the explanations of vote for yesterday's reports and then for today's reports. that is why we are now dealing with the silvia costa report. the debate is now open.
in writing. − today's vote represents a missed opportunity to make eu agricultural policy sustainable and competitive in the long term. for the first time, the european parliament is at the negotiating table and has full co-decision rights in the new agricultural reform. a full 40% of the total eu budget will be spent on the agricultural budget over the period 2014-2020. these funds are distributed to farmers almost unconditionally. the commission has not yet adopted any concrete and binding sustainability criteria, as the environment committee has repeatedly called for. this is not acceptable in any case. at the same time, it is unacceptable that small farms which regularly receive public funds should be exempted from their obligation to comply with minimum environmental requirements. compliance with environmental standards must be a condition for receiving premium payments. the urgent need for an ecological agricultural reform cannot and will not be met by today's vote. for these reasons, i had no choice but to vote against the mandate to open negotiations.
in writing. - the vote today on the reform of the common agricultural policy was a great disappointment for me as a development politician. although the cap is one of the eu's most successful policies, it must not be forgotten that our work in europe also has an external impact in the world. the developing countries and their food security are particularly concerned, and any change in this policy will have an impact on them. as rapporteur for the cap package in the development committee, i have been campaigning for the direct and indirect effects of the cap to be taken into account. i voted accordingly in the plenary. i voted in favour of including the objectives of development cooperation as laid down in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the vote today has shown that our house is not prepared to seek synergies between agricultural policy and development policy. i am very sorry about that, because development policy will become more and more important. any reform, especially one as important as the cap, must take this into account. this reform is not a reform worthy of the name. that's why i didn't support it.
in writing. - a key issue is the 'ecological priority areas'. the commission has once again coined a new wording. what's the point? some say it should be closed down, others say it should be the existing perimeters, hedges and ditches, and still others say it should be land where no fertiliser or crop protection is used. the whole debate seems to me to be about walking across the country with a tape measure and a computer, or worse, sitting in the offices and making complicated calculations to fit the agricultural areas from finland to sicily and from france to romania. but that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot work! europe is a wonderful diversity of cultural landscapes, all of which have their own value and significance - and hopefully should remain so. our agriculture accounts for the largest share of this. we cannot afford the luxury of shutting down the best climatic regions while people in other parts of the world are starving. this is sin! the planting rights in viticulture must remain, and we want to be involved in the design!
in writing. - the vote today on the reform of the common agricultural policy was a great disappointment for me as a development politician. although the cap is one of the eu's most successful policies, it must not be forgotten that our work in europe also has an external impact in the world. the developing countries and their food security are particularly concerned, and any change in this policy will have an impact on them. as rapporteur for the cap package in the development committee, i have been campaigning for the direct and indirect effects of the cap to be taken into account. i voted accordingly in the plenary. i voted in favour of including the objectives of development cooperation as laid down in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the vote today has shown that our house is not prepared to seek synergies between agricultural policy and development policy. i am very sorry about that, because development policy will become more and more important. any reform, especially one as important as the cap, must take this into account. this reform is not a reform worthy of the name. that's why i didn't support it.
in writing. - the vote today on the reform of the common agricultural policy was a great disappointment for me as a development politician. although the cap is one of the eu's most successful policies, it must not be forgotten that our work in europe also has an external impact in the world. the developing countries and their food security are particularly concerned, and any change in this policy will have an impact on them. as rapporteur for the cap package in the development committee, i have been campaigning for the direct and indirect effects of the cap to be taken into account. i voted accordingly in the plenary. i voted in favour of including the objectives of development cooperation as laid down in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the vote today has shown that our house is not prepared to seek synergies between agricultural policy and development policy. i am very sorry about that, because development policy will become more and more important. any reform, especially one as important as the cap, must take this into account. this reform is not a reform worthy of the name. that's why i didn't support it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out the serious lack of participation on all four agricultural dossiers and also the lack of fairness in the way of a proper debate in this house. i therefore voted against three of the four reports because i did not feel at all able to assess them as a whole. i also noted that the concerns raised by the committee on budgetary control in the debate, particularly in the la via dossier, were very incomplete or not taken into account at all. we had no opportunity to intervene because the result of the vote was not presented to the committee on agriculture and rural development until last thursday evening - last week - and the deadline for amendments was 12 noon on the wednesday before that, so there was no opportunity to assess what the committee on agriculture had decided to do in order to intervene again. i find this extremely problematic and sad indeed, because at the same time the agricultural dossier is the only major dossier of the multiannual programmes which is put to the vote in the plenary before it is negotiated with the council of the member states. we had an opportunity here and we were not able to take advantage of it because everything was set up in such a way that we could not bring in the matters of market organization, competitiveness and controls, which are also important. i think that we as the european parliament have missed a great opportunity. that is why i was unable to agree to these important reports.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in bangladesh. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
member of the commission. − mr president, we welcome the adoption by parliament of a resolution concerning the current human rights situation in bangladesh. the recent wave of violence, which has left around 100 people dead and many more injured, has increased our concern. high representative/vice-president ashton issued a statement on 2 march expressing distress at the loss of lives during demonstrations. a discussion on human rights needs to be put in the context of the challenges faced by bangladesh. these include overpopulation, extreme poverty, pressure on natural resources, threats to food security, vulnerability to natural disasters, institutional shortcomings and minority issues. with nearly one third of the population still living below the poverty line, inequality – like illiteracy and malnutrition – remains a major problem. this situation may be aggravated in the near future by the effects of climate change. the european union has a long record of working with bangladesh to address all these issues. in view of the longstanding confrontation between the government and the opposition and the ongoing demonstrations in the wake of the war crimes trials, there is a risk that partisan violence will intensify further as the parliamentary elections approach. the parliamentary elections will take place in december 2013 or january 2014. peaceful and inclusive parliamentary elections will be key for the consolidation of bangladesh’s democracy. it is essential that the political forces find a consensus on the modalities for holding the elections. it is not for the international community to determine those modalities. our role is a supporting one. the eu observed the last general election, and is ready to observe the forthcoming one if we receive an invitation to do so. the conclusion of the war crimes trials is likely to have an impact on the overall situation, as you have noted. the fact that we oppose the death penalty in all circumstances, including for the worst crimes, does not mean that we advocate impunity. we are well aware of the horrific events which took place during the 1971 war, the many lives lost and the heinous crimes committed, and we are aware of the importance of justice for the people of bangladesh. in view of the violent turn of events, we have called on those involved to exercise restraint. it is important that minorities receive special protection. all efforts are needed to prevent the situation from escalating.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the plight of minority groups in iraq, in particular the turkmen of iraq. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. ten years after the end of saddam hussein's repressive rule, iraqis have more freedom, but serious human rights violations such as torture, unfair trials and attacks on civilians are commonplace. torture is widespread and is used particularly against prisoners arrested in connection with terrorism charges. confessions extracted by torture are often the basis on which prisoners are sentenced to death. with 129 executions in 2012, iraq is one of the world's leading executioners. the iraqi ministry of justice has launched a prison reform. the eu must monitor this process closely. at the end of january, the un secretary-general strongly condemned the recent wave of terrorist attacks in iraq, as did the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. both the iraqi government and the kurdistan regional government are called upon to de-escalate and to resolve their territorial disputes politically. the turkmen minority in iraq suffers from this situation on several occasions. the turkish people are subjected to assimilation measures, kidnappings and attacks, despite the fact that they are guaranteed equal rights under the iraqi constitution. we therefore call on the eu to make the situation of the turkmen minority a special focus in all negotiations and discussions with the iraqi government!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not next year will mark the 95th anniversary of the paris commune treaties, which attempted to reorganise not only europe but also the middle east. there was the treaty of sèvres, which promised the kurds the right to self-determination, only to take it away from them three years later in the treaty of lausanne. the art state of iraq was cut from the bankrupt mass of the ottoman empire, and since then all rulers in baghdad have operated on the principle of "divide and rule" and have incited the people against each other. and today, unfortunately, we have to say that the government in iraq is still unable to bring sunnis, shiites and kurds together in an orderly way. the small groups are the ones who suffer most: the christians in the nineveh plain and the turkmen who have been settled there since the ottoman empire. they are threatened with being pitted against each other in the midst of the great struggle and falling victim to commodity interests. that is why it is our task to ensure that the iraqi government vigorously respects human and minority rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, we share your concerns about the situation of iraqi minorities. we are all aware of the difficult situation across iraq and of its impact on the life of iraqi people, particularly the minorities, including turkmen, who are more vulnerable. the house will be well aware of the emphasis that the european union puts on human rights in its external actions, and the situation in iraq is indeed a cause for serious concern. baroness ashton has regularly condemned the continuing unacceptable violence in iraq, including the attacks against minorities. she has also called repeatedly and publicly on the iraqi government and iraq’s major political forces to engage in a dialogue to address the outstanding issues and ensure effective governance and the rule of law throughout the country. this is all the more important now, as the country is facing serious political difficulties with increased tensions along ethnic and sectarian lines. in this respect the european union supports the work of the united nations in facilitating dialogue between the major political forces. in its dialogue with iraq, the union does not hesitate to voice its concerns over human rights, including, in particular, freedom of religion or belief, and the elimination of all forms of discrimination. the european union has offered to cooperate with iraq in improving human rights protection. many of you referred to the new eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. human rights are a prominent element in this agreement, and one of the agreed priorities for implementation. the agreement will certainly help to extend the scope of cooperation. the european union will maintain its targeted support for iraq. since 2004, the union has contributed more than one billion euros to iraq, ranging from humanitarian aid to support for basic services and promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law. part of this contribution has supported the most vulnerable iraqis and the minorities – with, for example, activities in the field of water, education or health provision in areas including kirkuk, sulaymaniyah, and arbil as part of an effort to assist the government in providing basic services. we have also supported capacity building, including for iraq’s judicial system, with commitments, for example, to the centre for torture victims in kirkuk and the council of representatives, on which minorities are represented. all this activity is in areas where the presence of minorities is particularly significant. what we hear from all the minorities is that they do not want to leave iraq. we take good note of their views: that the iraqi people’s rich mosaic of ethnic, religious, linguistic and cultural backgrounds is a valuable heritage to be cherished and protected. so the european union is committed to following the human rights issues closely, in relation to minorities and to other vulnerable groups in iraq.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of arafat jaradat and the situation of palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons. see minutes of the sitting. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
- on this occasion, i would like to point out that you should always take your voting card with you when you speak of another place. the systems are not perfect, even if we work that out later on the web. if another name appears in the voting register, you are not happy, and possibly your colleague whose name appears in the voting register is not happy either.
member of the commission. − mr president, we take note of the adoption by parliament of this timely resolution concerning the case of arafat jaradat and the situation of palestinian prisoners in israeli jails. the european union has closely followed ongoing developments around the death of mr jaradat in the israeli prison of meggido. the european union offers its condolences to the family of mr jaradat at this difficult time. we are also following very carefully the conflicting reports from israeli and palestinian authorities as regards the cause of death. the european union welcomes the fact that the initial autopsy was conducted in the presence of both israeli and palestinian experts. we have taken note of the israeli minister of health’s statement that further reports are expected regarding the possible cause of death. we urge continued swift investigation into the cause of death. this death comes at a sensitive time, given the ongoing hunger strike by palestinian detainees in israel. we are following with concern reports about the deteriorating health of two hunger strikers under israeli detention: ayman sharawna and samer issawi. we encourage all parties to reach agreement on conditions that would lead to the ending of this hunger strike. in this regard, the vice-president/high representative welcomes the news that two other palestinians detainees, jafar ezzedin and tareq qaa’dan, have ended their hunger strike. the european union has repeatedly drawn the attention of the israeli authorities to its concerns about palestinian detainees, notably – as we have mentioned already – with regard to hunger strikers and to administrative detainees. we regularly raise the issue of palestinian prisoners with israel at all levels, including in the association council. the question is regularly discussed in the human rights working group under the existing association agreement. the union’s concerns are reflected in our annual progress reports. the matter was again raised with israel last november by member states’ representatives on the occasion of a visit to the region. most recently, on 16 february, baroness ashton called for the immediate restoration of family visiting rights and the full observance of international human rights obligations towards all palestinian detainees and prisoners. she also underscored the importance of full adherence by all sides to the 14 may 2012 agreement on the rights of palestinian prisoners. according to the european neighbourhood policy report of 2012, out of 4 432 palestinian prisoners and detainees in israeli prisons, 160 – i.e. 3.6% of the prison population – are administrative detainees. this represents a significant decrease as against previous years. nevertheless, we reiterate the european union’s longstanding concern over the use by israel of administrative detention orders. under international law, detainees have the right to be informed about the reasons underlying any detention, and the decision on detention itself must be subject to a meaningful review process without undue delay. the european union calls on israel to bring formal charges against any individuals detained, with a view to bringing them to fair trial without undue delay.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to correct a factual error before we vote on the resolution on bangladesh. recital j at the end of the paragraph states: 'after the elections in 2001 and 2005'. there were no elections in 2005, so i ask that you delete and 2005 before we vote.
mr audy, would you like to speak?
mr audy, you have forgotten the rule, i have forgotten whether we have changed it. we'll look into it.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 14 march 2013.
i am not going to go into detail. i would ask for your attention because i am making a procedural statement which is of the greatest importance to all my colleagues. as announced in the plenary on 14 march, mr nikiforos diamandouros announced that he would resign as ombudsman with effect from 1 october 2013. i would now like to explain to you the procedure for the election of a successor until the end of this term. that is the first important clue. the election of the successor is a substitute election until the end of this electoral period, that is, until the middle of next year. on 4 april 2013, a call for applications was published in the official journal. nominations must be submitted by 8 may 2013 at the latest. in accordance with rule 204 (2) of the rules of procedure, candidates must satisfy a number of conditions. i would just like to remind you of the provisions which concern you directly, ladies and gentlemen: each candidate must have the support of at least 40 members from at least two member states. it is not possible to support several candidates at the same time. so one signature counts for one nomination. the signatures of different colleagues on different candidatures can theoretically lead to the invalidation of the candidacy. that is why i am drawing attention to this rather obvious fact. so, choose one candidate, not several! once i have received a nomination, it is no longer possible to add a signature in support or to withdraw a signature. it's like an election: when you cast your vote, you cast it. you can't call the election commissioner and say i made a mistake and i was going to vote for someone else. that's the way it is. in accordance with rule 204 (3) of the rules of procedure, i shall forward to the committee on petitions the nominations which meet all the criteria laid down. the commission will probably organise hearings of the candidates in mid-june. these hearings are open to all members. the election will take place during the july plenary session to enable the new ombudsman to take up his or her duties on 1 october 2013. the services of the directorate-general for the presidency are of course at your disposal for any further questions. i have also asked that a notice be sent to your offices.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the provisions on the time-limit for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances (com (((2012) 0416 c7-0203/2012 2012/0202 (((cod)) (a7-0046/2013)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have the backloading report for a vote in the house tomorrow. backloading is the temporary withdrawal of allowances from the market during the third trading period and their reintroduction at the end of the period, rather than their permanent withdrawal. the commission made the proposal last year. it was not a surprise that it was launched, but we as the european parliament called on the commission to do so during the negotiations on the energy efficiency directive, where the committee on industry was in the lead; we have also linked the approval of the first reading agreement to this. and with the low carbon economy initiative report we have again stepped in and said that we need a short-term measure to intervene so that we have a reasonably reasonable price for carbon credits. the commission has done that. we have now worked on this in parliament: the committee on industry has voted against it, and we had a large majority in favour in the committee on the environment. why do we need this backloading? we need backloading because we have to record that at a price of 2.80 euros - that was the absolute lowest we have now had in the past weeks and months - there is no incentive to intervene in climate-friendly production processes, energy production processes. you saw it today: even the industry is putting ads, but also churches, the catholic church on weekends and the evangelical church, have put ads to support backloading. but one thing must be said: backloading, the short-term withdrawal of the allowances, does not bring the final solution, but it merely buys us time to launch structural reforms for the fourth trading period or earlier. that is a parliamentary decision, of course. in my draft report, which was adopted and which will be put to the vote tomorrow, i have put in place a safety net for us as a parliament - because i am a parliamentarian through and through - so that the european commission cannot intervene in the market more than once, but only once during the third trading period. and we also added a recital that you look again at the energy-intensive companies, the carbon leakage companies, whether there are disruptions and pressure to act. i know that many colleagues say that we must not intervene in a market and that many are sceptical about voting yes tomorrow and would rather vote no. but i can only say that this is our job and our mission! it happens every day in the european union that parliaments intervene in markets when they are not functioning properly. we made a mistake in 2008 during the climate and energy package debate. the majority of the house was in favor of putting too many certificates into the system. and now we're presented with the bill: we had a 955 million surplus of certificates at the end of 2011. and if there are too many certificates in the system, then the price drops. it was our mistake! it will only temporarily correct the error, but it is now time to pave the way for structural reforms. and for that, we need backloading. the alternative to backloading, but also to the emissions trading system - because i know some colleagues are linking this together, we are not voting tomorrow on the emissions trading system - is 27 different tax systems. i don't know if that's the solution to the problem. china is going to launch an emissions trading system in 2015 that is bigger than the european one, and other regions of the world have followed us here. even if there is a change of government in australia, the opposition will stick to the emissions trading system. that's why i'm asking for your approval tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. if it is so important not to interfere in the market, why was there not the great outcry and the great outcry in the past when the commission did frontloading? if the honourable member is really concerned with principle, i would like to know why there was no outcry from the epp group and others when the commission undertook frontloading?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're making a huge mistake with the backloading decision when we make it. because we're betting on those actors who want to reduce emissions and use the emissions trading system, the signal that the system is not reliable, we intervene when the price is not right for us. we are giving the system a false sense of arbitrariness, and that is why it is a false signal. i am very much in favour of mr seeber's view that we should be thinking fundamentally about the question of what kind of climate policy we are pursuing in the eu. it's obvious that the rest of the world doesn't accept our leadership in politics. and it's also probably the completely wrong signal to say now that we have to raise the prices of the system when the rest of the world is not at all ready to accept an international climate agreement. the commission is naturally faced with the question: what if, despite the backloading, the price does not rise? does this mean that we are entering a spiral of intervention in emissions trading? so this is not a good sign to intervene in trade now. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you very much for this question. of course, the emissions trading system is a politically created market. maybe that's why it doesn't work. that's what i mean by saying we should think about new strategies. it is possible that the creation of political markets is doomed from the start.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we see that all the major groups are divided on this issue. i am a member of a minority in the epp group. but many of my epp colleagues, many christian democrats in the member states, are in favour of the commission's proposal and of the report by the committee on the environment. i was rapporteur for the environment committee for the energy efficiency directive. i must say that what the rapporteur, mr groote, said is true. the european parliament has twice called on the commission to intervene in and strengthen emissions trading. to say that you have to do it all somehow differently is not fair. because if we don't take that first step tomorrow, there will be no debate about next steps. the credibility of the european parliament is at stake. the argument that we should not intervene in the market in principle was an argument of the republicans in the united states before lehman brothers. when the german bundestag passed the bank rescue package in 2008, i was in the office of the chief executive of the federation of german industries. he said, "on rare occasions, you have to do it". and now, for once, emissions trading has to be done. we, as the epp, have insisted in the environment committee that this debate should take place in plenary, that we should not negotiate on the basis of the vote in the environment committee. but it also means that we are being watched more closely and that this is not a technical trifle, but a decision of principle. we should make the decision on principle for an eu climate policy. i'm in favor of it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we introduced emissions trading at that time, we had a very heated debate, and that was when the decision was made to adopt a market economy system. and there was a firm commitment not to intervene. this is a market economy. this is what we're gonna do. then we hit the co2 reduction targets, which is what this whole project was about, and now we're doing something about it. we're intervening because the state coffers aren't getting enough money. what kind of condition is this? it was not a system to fill the coffers of the member states, but a system to reduce co2. if we act now, we will not only lose credibility and reliability, but we will also drive up electricity prices. we must think about reforming this instrument as a whole - this has been suggested by many colleagues - not just this system, but also the interaction between this system and others. it is not surprising that the question of the carbon balance is affected by the very strong and intensive promotion of renewable energy. and so i would recommend that we not just turn a screw, intervene at random, but look at the whole system, the interactions between the different instruments that we have chosen. it is not the case that we are hastily deciding one measure after another, but that it is finally time to look at the interactions. and by the way, a panic scenario is not appropriate. it's total nonsense that tomorrow's emissions trading is in jeopardy. it's about credibility. we have made a commitment and we have chosen a market economy system and now we must stand by it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has often been puzzled by the emissions trading system. back in 2003, we created a new, artificial market for emissions. we were very aware of that. but the objective was clear: the only stated objective was to contain and reduce emissions, and to do so on terms acceptable to the economy. we've been very careful about that here. today, the only thing that matters is to increase the value of trade rights. and let's be clear, this is about making money. the industry, the economy and ultimately the consumers should pay for these programmes to save money and to be efficient. but europe cannot afford to do so! commissioner, you referred to the economic crisis. this is certainly a reason not to increase the price of energy! we are part of a global economy, part of a globalized market. if we put a higher price on our products than we put on our energy, we'll be out of business. we are losing markets and we are losing jobs. we cannot have that!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was a good debate. i've listened to all the arguments, and i have to say that i've received a lot of letters in the last few days -- from people i've never received a letter from, and they're the catholic bishops -- from the evangelical church, from environmental groups, from industry, from others who have asked us to look at the bigger picture, that what we're doing here is not just a market cleansing or a price hike of a few cents or euros, but we have a social task to tackle, which is climate change. this is the core business we do! we should cure the instrument, because the instrument is not having the effect it should have. investments in climate-friendly gas-fired power plants and renewable energy are no longer profitable. it's about reliability. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the policy framework to create the conditions for an energy transition and an efficient europe. we should not be running out of breath here halfway through, but we should also be adjusting this instrument. because it is necessary. and we have asked the commission to adjust the instrument. i would like to make this very clear again: it was we who asked the commission to do this! the energy costs have been mentioned. all i can say is, opportunity cost is something you should look at again. the prices have already reached the consumers, even though the co2 price is so low. actually, there should be some cuts in electricity prices at this point. that argument does not count here! i would like to thank my shadow reporters in the majority. parliament is the place where debate takes place. when colleagues tweet at two-minute intervals, this is no longer the most serious way of negotiating with each other, but these are the meetings of the shadow reporters and this takes place behind closed doors. i would like to emphasize once again that we are not making a public show here, but it is a very serious matter to save the emissions trading system, and we should not bring our own publicity to the fore. i would like to stress this again, because i was a little annoyed by it. i think that we should all take it to heart to work seriously here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. fortunately, the report was not so controversial. we had large majorities in the environment committee and also in the transport committee. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the trilogue negotiations, but especially the rapporteur for the committee on transport, mr mathieu grosch, who has helped to achieve a broad consensus on this point. in 2008, we decided here in the plenary by a majority of over 90% to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme. the council decided unanimously at that time. the reason was that emissions from air transport have been steadily increasing they have roughly doubled since 1990 and of course it would be unfair to involve other modes of transport such as car, bus and rail in different ways in climate change and not involve air transport. that is why it is right, and it remains right, that we did this. the decision-making at the time was moderate. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain the compensation for the costs of the services provided by the airport. for long-haul flights, it is a maximum of 2 euros. it was important for us to include all flights that depart and land in europe in the system, including intercontinental flights. the objections raised by third countries are not, in my view, substantive. the ecj has ruled that we have the right to do so, and the third countries themselves sometimes charge much higher taxes and fees when you take off and/or land there. the objections are therefore not substantive. nevertheless, it is best, of course, to solve the problem by global consensus. the international civil aviation organization (icao) has not been able to achieve much in this area for a long time, but since november last year there has been progress. there is a movement in this direction and we want to support it. the committee therefore welcomes the commission's proposal. we want to clarify the text so that it is clear what we are trying to achieve. we want a framework for a global agreement to be agreed at the icao assembly in september 2013. and it has to be very precise. but we are not so naive as to think that in september all the problems will be solved and then on january 1, 2014 a global system will come into force. we therefore need a transitional arrangement which will allow us to continue our system - as decided in 2008 - possibly in a slightly modified form. that is what has been proposed and that is what we shall be voting for tomorrow. we have made it quite clear that we are not prepared to accept the 'stop the clock' 'the withdrawal of intercontinental flights' for more than a year. that is a very clear message that we are going to send out tomorrow. the agreement is a compromise: everyone has given in, not everyone has achieved 100%. but it's a compromise. i therefore appeal to everyone, as rapporteur, to support the compromise and reject all the other amendments, otherwise we will not be able to complete the work by 30 april. and then we have to get to work, and then we have to convince the third countries. and i would appeal in particular to the american secretary of state, john kerry. john kerry has introduced the kerry-lieberman bill in the us senate: emissions trading for everyone in the us, including airlines, including european airlines. if john kerry does not commit himself to global unity now, he will lose his credibility. it is not up to the eu, it is up to the us and the other third countries that we can do this now. and that is the message we must send out very clearly, through our delegation, from tomorrow onwards!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the door is open to an international agreement in the air transport sector, so that we can reduce co2 emissions there, but also to get a tool in the hands of an international business. as a good gesture for the negotiations, which will get the negotiating team on its way, we have agreed on a first reading. i hope tomorrow they'll close the bag, which i assume they will. europe is sending a signal that we are ready to show goodwill, to suspend our legislation for a year so that an international agreement can be reached in the autumn of this year. it is clear that such an agreement must have a certain substance. it is also clear that we are not writing this agreement, because it is sometimes difficult to reach agreement with 27 member states, as the previous item on the agenda showed. but if there are 170 or more at the table, it's going to be that much harder. we are prepared to compromise and we are reaching out for an international agreement. if this succeeds and if there is substance to such an agreement, then i think the door will be open to all other areas. that's why it's going to be very important that in the coming months, and we should use this time, we communicate. i think that mr liese has handled this report very well and with a certain amount of experience in parliament, since he was also the rapporteur on this subject in the previous period. we really should talk to a lot of actors. the new american secretary of state is a very important interlocutor. we'll be in the states with the environmental committee before the summer break. we should have many discussions there, but also with the decision-makers there, if we are to make the international negotiations a success. a lot depends on that. i have very high hopes that if we succeed in reaching an agreement here, we will really break the gordian knot in other areas. because the most important conference we have coming up is in 2015, where we will hopefully get an international agreement on the road. this is an important step towards an international agreement, for all legislation at the un level to combat climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am now challenged, mrs foster. that is why you personally have a different position from many here in parliament and the council. but if you are asked whether the position you are taking is also the position of the uk government, and you say: 'i am a conservative, and we are supportive of business', you have to be very forceful. i think the uk government, which is supporting both backloading and stop the clock, is in favour of business, and we should take that into account tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the compromise we will accept tomorrow is certainly the right one. i'll support him too. i think he's a little too half-hearted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is completely open what will come out at the icao level. even if something comes out of it - whatever the instrument - it will certainly not match the european union's current level of ambition for climate action. we have not yet had an answer as to what the outcome of these negotiations will be that we can accept. that is why there is a great danger that the decision we are going to take tomorrow will lead us back to the same dead end as the decision we took yesterday. i do not accept the inclusion of switzerland in this system against its will. that's certainly not a sign of good neighborliness. there is no legal basis for that either.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for over 100 years, greenhouse gases have been known to cause global warming. the steady increase in co2 has been documented for 50 years. it is high time that effective measures were taken. and the inclusion of aviation in emissions trading is such an effective measure because it contributes to the fight against climate change and is a bold move by the european union, which unfortunately still lacks the support of international partners. the two percent of global co2 emissions from aviation may not seem particularly threatening, but it is important to remember that this is the area that is growing fastest. so something has to be done. the clear mistake of icao was that it did little or nothing after the kyoto protocol. that is why it is now in charge and must eventually deliver concrete results. and, commissioner, if there is nothing substantial, we would urge you to continue on the european union's path as soon as possible and to put emissions trading back into the system immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission representative apparently gave the wrong impression before and during the trilogue that switzerland was in favour of being treated as a member state or an eea state for 2012. the commission has also been able to convince the ep delegation and the council not to treat switzerland as a third country. in the opinion of the committee on transport we had responded to the actual wishes of switzerland. one thing is clear: switzerland wants to be treated as a third country in 2012 - and that is the only point on which we are debating here. it is also a third country in air transport. this was confirmed by the ecj only at the beginning of march 2013. there is also no legal category of a friendly third country with consequently limited sovereignty, because brezhnev has long since died. i therefore ask you to support the amendment which adds switzerland to the list of third countries. since all parties involved would have to agree to the clear will of switzerland, this could be done by the circulation or tacit procedure without jeopardizing 30 april.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much. i would just like to make a few very brief comments. mr gerbrandy asked that parliament be kept up to speed. as i have already said, that serves our mutual interests, because this is a difficult issue. i agree very much with the last comment from ms merkies. of course, this is precisely designed to maximise the pressure and finally get a result out of the icao: that is exactly what we are trying to do. mr ertug said that if there is no outcome from the icao, what then? it is very clear, from this proposal, what would happen then; automatically, we would be back where we were before 9 november. that, of course, should convince our partners why they need to make a move now in the icao. we have already set up this high-level group and things are actually moving forward, though not with as much speed as some of us would like. it made a difference when we announced this stopping of the clock back in november. my last comment is on this issue with switzerland because, contrary to what some claimed in the debate here today, i heard this as implying that the commission had misled people on the dialogue with switzerland. of course we have not done that. there has been a very extensive dialogue at every level. i myself have also met with, written to and held telephone calls with the minister. i want to make that very clear. i think that it should be clear to all of us that, on the substantial issues, there are very good reasons for treating switzerland differently from most other third countries. switzerland enjoys a privileged position as part of the eu’s internal aviation market, and geographically it is at the heart of the european continent. adopting a different approach would thus create disproportionately high risks of distortion of competition in comparison to the alternative. furthermore, switzerland and the eu share a strong commitment to addressing climate change and to making progress in the icao, and we are even engaged in detailed negotiations on linking our respective emissions trading systems. so i would end by saying that it is my clear impression that on the swiss side too, although there are some technical issues, there is a profound understanding of why we need to move this through with a first-reading agreement. there are some deadlines here that we need to respect, and the swiss government also understands this. as i said, we have a shared interest in what we are trying to gain from the icao process, where switzerland and the european union look at things in very much the same way. just to make sure there is no misunderstanding: there is a very good dialogue and there is a profound understanding on both sides as to why we need a first-reading agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, i can answer that, but i do not think it is appropriate for the commission to do so. i do not have all the information that you are asking for. we should ask the airports about that. what i can see, as you can also see from the press studies, is that some orders go through and some do not. we saw, in june 2011, that the chinese were saying that if europe did not do what they asked us to do, what they wanted us to do, and what served their interest, then they would hold back on orders. i simply cannot understand it if the european parliament thinks that if anybody were to threaten specific, named european companies with holding back orders if we did not do what those powers are requesting, then we would have to do exactly what they were asking us to do. it is not part of my job as european commissioner to bow to such pressure. i am glad that this parliament and our governments have so far not been put under that kind of pressure. i do not know where europe would be if we ended up giving in to this sort of threat.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all the members for the very broad support for the outcome of the negotiations. i would like to emphasize what commissioner hedegaard has just said: we must of course negotiate, but we must not be subjected to such pressure from third countries that we say we will repeal any law we have passed if the chinese threaten us with sufficient force. one of the arguments i use to promote europe - also in my constituency - is that if we act together, we can also achieve something with the chinese. that is why we must be closed at this point. i would also ask mrs foster to take this into account, even if she is a eurosceptic. the cameron government has a good position here. it is not just the liberal minister, it is a government position which is in favour of stop the clock and backloading, and i appeal to all my colleagues in the conservative party in britain to look at this again. i do not think that david cameron's government is taking an anti-economic stance here, but a very sensible one. i am disappointed in mrs hassi and the green group, and i must say this very clearly. i think it is a green-show window policy to say that we cannot accept the compromise. the serious environmental organizations that are really working on this issue - including in montreal at icao - are asking us to agree. i understand that we have a problem with switzerland, and that this also needs to be discussed. but there are also different positions on this matter, as the debate has made clear. the communication i received from switzerland was not always clear and timely. switzerland can also improve its communication a little. we must talk, but we must not jeopardize the compromise. we should agree to the compromise tomorrow and then fight vigorously for a global settlement. i believe we have a chance to do that, and i ask for your support. (applause from the centre)
, in writing. the implementation of the legal bases of the general equal treatment act is a prerequisite for equality to become a reality in our society. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the establishment of a european network of social partners in the field of equal opportunities. i therefore support the rapporteur in calling on the commission to monitor implementation by the national equality bodies more closely and to close existing gaps. the private insurance industry had sufficient time and opportunity to adjust its rates in line with the ecj ruling. the fear that this scheme will soon lead to equal benefits in occupational pension schemes and thus to billions of euros in risks for companies is unjustified and exaggerated. in my work in the employment committee, i am working hard to ensure that the company pension is not affected by any changes in the law. i do not see the problem here in the fact that women and men should have the same rights. equal treatment is often already standard in occupational pension schemes because it is based on a collective rather than an individual approach. other commission proposals have a much greater impact on the security of occupational pensions. the fact that women will not pay higher contributions for lower performance in the future should therefore not be used as an argument against equal opportunities.
member of the commission. − madam president, this regulation proves that it is wise never to give up if you are certain that something makes sense. for that reason, i want to say that a good job has been done, thanks to the attitude of parliament and the council. with this agreement to support a new regulation for enisa, there is for this agency not just a new mandate, but a new mandate that is clear and that covers the next seven years. i want sincerely to thank the rapporteur, mr chichester, and the shadows on this dossier. a lot of work has been done, and i am aware that the list of presidencies to which we have to be grateful – as mentioned by the rapporteur – is indeed one of the signs that this is a dossier which has been discussed in great depth. the commission certainly believes that it is critical that enisa continue in an efficient and operational way. that was where this debate started. talking about the recently-launched cybersecurity strategy for europe, we need enisa. we need enisa to play a key role in europe’s quest to improve the resilience and security of network and information systems. while perhaps, when enisa started, it was not that clear, today it is crystal clear that we need enisa. i am pleased that, after lengthy discussions – and i mean lengthy, as i do not believe in eternal life but sometimes had the feeling that we would need eternal life to get to the end of this whole procedure, which has sometimes been difficult – there is now the new mandate, and i am counting my blessings. we can now build on the current success with this agency. that includes, among other things, areas such as the pan-european cybersecurity exercises, including with relevant third countries, input to research, global threat analysis, publication of best practices and key areas. furthermore, the new mandate will allow enisa to play a key role in network and information security. with its office in athens, enisa will be more efficient and will be closer to its different constituencies, be it the european institutions – talking about efficiency, here you can count in pure euros, so to speak – or private companies. this will enable the member states and european institutions to get more from enisa. finally, the presidency has confirmed that the council will adopt the agreed compromise text, so i now look forward to your final vote tomorrow. closing this first point, i think we should be grateful. there is a future for enisa. we badly need enisa. and now we have clarity, including for those people involved in enisa.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. enisa is not an end in itself. enisa was not a discussion about an agency, but rather the outcome of a discussion about one of the greatest challenges for the european internal market, for the freedom of citizens, for the freedom and security of a new, young, digital generation. what enisa can and must do is to ensure that we have the expertise, coordination and cooperation - perhaps to some extent also cooperation with member states that are not yet ready - at european level to tackle this issue. in essence, enisa is a building block in a strategy. a building block like the newly opened europol cyber security centre, a building block like the directive that commissioner kroes has presented on cyber security. parliament has made it clear in arduous negotiations that it is not just about this agency, but about the importance of cyber security and its dimension in our society. we have made our way through the core demands. there was no dispute with the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for her personal commitment. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr chichester, for his leadership, which is as humorous as it is clever and strategic. i want to emphasize once again: it was not a question of seats, it was not just an organisational question, but we found a very important building block for the european union's strategy to deal with the issue of cyber security in an appropriate way. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their commitment. it is another important building block. but with the cybersecurity directive we will only really get the extended toolbox of action we need to deal with this issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the interinstitutional working party on agencies, i very much welcome the introduction of this legal basis. it is one of the first texts to be adopted under the new agreement, which we have born with pain. i want to put myself behind the two seats for the agency. this means that the agency has one seat in heraklion and the other in athens. i would like to advise and urge the commission and parliament to choose the appropriate agency locations. it is not acceptable that agency sites should be means of maintaining infrastructure on the ground. this case in particular shows the absurdity of putting such an agency with this mandate on an island which is not easily accessible in winter. that's why we have the branch in athens. if we want to work with this agency in a credible way, we must also give it the conditions under which we and the commission can work with it in a credible way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on 28 february this year, the president of this parliament received the report of the olaf monitoring committee on the investigation into the dalli case. this report was commissioned by the committee on budgetary control and has not yet been forwarded to it. i would like to protest strongly against this! article 6 of the statute of members clearly states that all documents in the house must be available to all members, except for personal data or bills. the monitoring committee expressly points out in its letter of formal notice that all personal data have been removed from the report it sent. in this report we are drawing attention to serious violations during the investigation of the dalli case, including violations of fundamental rights. the director-general of olaf lied to us in the budgetary control committee. this too is part of the report. witnesses were also asked to give false accounts of events. it's time we got access to that report. i would urge that this be done, otherwise all the violations of fundamental rights and other errors of procedure will be covered by this house and its president.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about trade with developing countries, we must always ensure that development interests - and above all poverty reduction - are at the centre. the treaty of lisbon also commits us to this. to do this, we need binding rules for companies to take social responsibility. i call on the commission to follow up mrs saïfi's report and to examine critically and thoroughly its strategy for economic partnership agreements and to see whether they are really in the interests of the developing countries or whether they are not just in our own interests and the interests of development are being undermined once again. we need more policy coherence in the interests of development. that means not just any policy coherence, not just coherence with anything, but coherence in the interests of development, and that means poverty reduction. that is what the treaty of lisbon requires, and that is what we as a parliament in the european union should do. i would also like to thank the rapporteur.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too believe and i say this on behalf of our socialist group: great things have been achieved in these discussions. the result can be seen. it's probably the most committed project: banking reform after the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have seen this in many conversations with those who believe that they are unfairly affected by reforms. no, the bank towers have not yet understood the lessons to be drawn from the crisis. unfortunately, this is also the result of long deliberations, and we must say that in many cases this is not the case in the finance ministries. because otherwise we would have made faster progress in our decision-making. the spirit of the day before yesterday was often enough present in the national finance ministries: yes, we want to make everything completely new, but we are not doing anything about it. we don't really see it. ladies and gentlemen, at this point a word of thanks is needed to othmar karas, the negotiator, but also to the entire negotiating team of the european parliament, not only to the members but also to the many excellent staff who have helped us in this debate. this is an important message, michel barnier, for all legislation that is yet to come. this european parliament will not be brought to its knees! this european parliament will give the right answers, not just to crd, as we have done now. we'll do it with the shadow banks, we'll do it when we get back to dealing with hedge funds. we will do so when we deal with the rating agencies again. citizens can count on this european parliament to take their interests seriously and to legislate accordingly. this is the important, courageous result beyond the content of the legislation to be represented here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. but we are not going to do it in an undifferentiated way, we are going to do it in exactly the same way, by saying that those who produce the risks must expect stricter conditions. we do not want to burden those who have continued to do good business during the crisis, who have helped small and mediumsized businesses, who have been a reliable partner to ordinary private customers. we differentiate. if my group had had its way, we would have differentiated even more sharply, as is well known. we would have been even more aggressive and differentiated risk profiles. but the start has been made, and this can be seen in this legislation, in the leverage ratio and in other points. we will not burden smes with our legislation or with the loans which are so important at local level for the development of modern infrastructure. this is also an important outcome of our discussions and one on which we can all rely. where national particularities call for us to give answers that are different from those elsewhere, we can do that. but we will not destroy the single market. we have made significant breakthroughs in the so important bonus payments; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mismanagement of the fleet is avoided in the future. and we're gonna make sure that more justice is done, including through the transparency rule. the banks will have to say in future where how many profits, where how many subsidies and which ... (the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in the last few days, some colleagues have spoken of a revolution in the crd iv, the basic regulation. i wouldn't agree with that. but with this regulation a significant step has been taken towards the reconstruction and stabilisation of the banking and financial sectors in the european union. we too must congratulate othmar karas on this. he has done a great job here, based on the proposal by commissioner michel barnier. we must also recognize that. we particularly welcome the fact that a diversified banking sector has been secured within the european union. we believe that it is above all important to protect the regionally based savings banks and cooperative banks and not to abandon them in favour of a private, large-scale banking concept. cooperative banks and savings banks have proved to be stable during the crisis, have proved to be reliable partners for smes. it is important to us that this part of the banking sector is protected in any case. more should have been done. i would like to stress that udo bullman has already said something about this. this is an important contribution that has been made here. we can also support the transparency rules, including the bonus system, although i cannot understand why the council did not agree to the original proposal that there should be a one-to-one system. that would certainly have been even more in the interests of the electorate. but it's an important step. we would have liked to have had a higher equity capital. we had proposed in our amendment a rate of 18%. that was a lot. the savings banks probably wouldn't have been able to afford it. on the other hand, if the capital buffers are added, the figure is about 15%. we are not far from what we originally wanted. we can say from this side, too, it's okay. we have a few critical remarks about the leverage ratio. we would have liked it to have been introduced a little earlier, not by means of codecision but by means of a delegated act. it was unenforceable. maybe there's still some negotiating to do. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to congratulate our parliamentary rapporteur, othmar karas, on what i consider to be an outstanding and excellent work he has done together with the shadow rapporteurs. the report calls for stricter capital rules for banks, which is an important step towards strengthening the banking sector and safeguarding financial markets, above all in the interests of european citizens. i do regret a little that these essential rules have been overshadowed by the discussion about the manager's bonus, the importance of which i of course also acknowledge. the crisis has shown that we need better equity in banks, both in quantity and quality. i think we've achieved that here. i very much welcome the fact that the specificities of national financial markets have also been taken into account. no credit institution is put at a disadvantage because of its business model. the quality of the core capital is important, not the legal form of the institution. this report also helps to refocus banks on their core business, which is to finance the real economy and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. the risk factor for small and medium-sized loans was reduced from 75% to 50%, and this of course also significantly reduced the capital requirements. i believe that the facilitation of credit to smes is therefore, like the whole report, a great success for the whole of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. basel iii and crd iv are important steps towards stabilising the banking sector, in particular through a stronger capital base. but of course, it's not enough, it's just one step. i would like to thank mr barnier and mr karas for their joint work. it is clear that in 30 trilogues over 10 months, it was not parliament or the commission that blocked the council, but the council alone. so the result is good. we have achieved the main points with this result: a stronger capital base for loans, facilitations for small and mediumsized enterprises, recognition of the liability of the group and limitation of bonuses. however, some questions remain. firstly, is the scheme applied worldwide? does everyone who is part of the basel process, such as the united states, adhere to it? secondly, government bonds are still risk-free. it's not gonna work out. if you really want to separate banks from states, this is a key point. thirdly, i believe that the bonus schemes can be abolished quickly and without any major problems. fourthly, the entire shadow banking sector remains largely unsolved. we are awaiting the commissioner's proposals in the middle of the year. it is only when everything is agreed that banking regulation will serve its purpose.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. at the height of the crisis, it was clear that we needed to implement three projects to be better prepared for future crises: new capital rules for the banking sector, a european banking supervision and a crisis management mechanism. the implementation of these projects takes a long time, far too long. the compromise now reached on the equity regime is a major step forward no question: uniform rules for all banks irrespective of their legal form prima, more transparency and easier lending to smes. but there are still a number of questions: first, government bonds. that's been brought up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, does the possibility for member states to individually design capital buffer schemes not lead to a distortion of competition in the internal market? thirdly, is there not a risk that the remuneration scheme, as useful as it is, will be weakened and will lead to a distortion of competition for european banks in the international financial markets? and the last, and very crucial, point is: what can we do to ensure that the badly needed cultural change in banking actually happens?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i want to make it quite clear: today is a good day for the taxpayer, because for the first time in many years we are obliging the banks to hold more equity capital, that is to say to be able to bear the risk on their books more themselves. this is the big difference from all the developments we have seen in the last 20 or 30 years. and it's a good day because in europe we say: it is not just a few large banks, grouped together in the basle group, that are affected, but we are saying quite deliberately in europe: all banks should comply with these strict capital requirements. we are also fulfilling our obligations under the g20 agreements. i hope that the other countries outside the european union will now also fulfil their obligations. on the other hand, we are quite clear: we do not want a credit crunch, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. that too is a strong message. small and mediumsized enterprises, which create jobs, guarantee training and promote innovation in europe, are assessed with a special factor, so that less equity is needed. this is good news for smes. i also want to mention the municipal loans. the provision of loans to local authorities will also continue to be possible without the need for capital. the investment capacity of local authorities is thus strengthened. i thank the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to it. this is a great success for europe!
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to say that i was very pleased and impressed by the fact that almost all the members who spoke supported the spirit and content of this proposal, which is, once again, a fundamental piece in the regulation of the banking sector, to learn from the crisis. and it is a well-deserved tribute to your rapporteur. i would also like to add to the thanks i have received the thanks we owe to all the staff who have worked with you, with us and with the presidency, because this was a subject which was extremely technical, legal, precise and which required a great deal of expertise. i would like to confirm by telegram to corien wortmann-kool, to mrs thyssen, or to mrs goulard, that the commission is determined to present, if they have not already done so, all the elements of what is called banking union. many are already there, the supervision by the european central bank, the text on the resolution on your table and, in the same spirit, with the same willingness, we will present before the summer break the proposal for the european resolution authority, which will be in parallel with the supervisory authority and we will present it because we think it is legally possible on the basis of the current treaty. there is nothing to prevent a targeted or specific amendment of the treaty - as was requested by a number of ministers in dublin - which we ourselves presented to the commission in the blueprint, which we presented in november, and which envisaged future developments in the treaty - from confirming, clarifying and consolidating all the elements of banking union. but we seriously believe that it is possible to move forward on all the elements within the framework of the present treaty as we have done with you on supervision. mr bullmann has very clearly and correctly said that parliament is giving good answers in this area, and not only in that. i would like to tell him and mr morganti that we will be presenting the reform which will follow on from the liikanen report also before the end of the summer, taking into account all the impact studies i am doing on all the options to work seriously and without improvisation. sharon bowles discussed, among other topics, pay and bonuses and shareholder responsibility. i confirm that we will, that we want to systematically strengthen shareholder responsibility for all companies, and you will find this in several texts that we are going to present. i thank mr lamberts and mr klute for their testimony. yes, we regulate the financial sector. yes, you regulate the finances. we must say this, because it is true, with the keyword of transparency, since this is the first condition for accountability. and today, mr lamberts, in the spirit of transparency, the commission is going to present a text on non-financial reporting for all large companies. i would like to say to mrs vicky ford and to mrs swinburne that, even if we do not agree on this point, the text you are going to adopt today is in line with the basel committee and its recommendations. it does, however, take account of the specificities of the european banking sector. we apply it, mrs ford, to 8 300 banks - not 30 banks, as in the united states - to 8 300 banks which finance 75% of the economy and of the european territories, 75%! and in addition 4,000 of these banks, as mr klute said, as mr burkhard balz said, are banks that are in diversity, 4,000 of these banks are cooperative or mutual banks. there you go. i would recommend to mr bloom, who has left, that he vote in favour of the text we have tabled to strengthen the penalties, the criminalisation of market abuse. finally, i would like to say to mr sánchez presedo and mrs berès that i am extremely vigilant about the level playing field with the united states and other major partners, but first of all the united states. i received the new us secretary of the treasury, mr jack lew, last week. the g20 is meeting this week. and on several subjects, the implementation of basel iii, technical standards for derivatives, accounting standards, the famous question of foreign banking organisations, which we oppose, we have a demanding and uncompromising but confident discussion with the united states. finally, i would remind several of you of the texts we are going to be working on, beyond what i have already said on the power of resolution. shadow banking, mr langen, with a regulation on monetary funds, will be this summer. diversity, mr schmidt, not just gender parity, but also the diversity that banks need in the careers they recruit: there will be a text on all the large listed companies and the conditions of diversity in their governance. mrs mccarthy, the lessons we must learn from the libor crisis, with very strict control of all the benchmarks and, finally, mr klute, as i promised, consumer protection with the basic bank account in the very next few weeks. finally, i would draw your attention to the document published by the commission last week on longterm investment and the financing of such investment which the european economy needs. we can now move from reactive, restorative regulation, sometimes from repressive regulation - which was needed after the crisis - to proactive, dynamic regulation for growth, and that is why the text you will adopt is a fundamental milestone in the intersection between these two forms of regulation. learn from the crisis and support the economy and, in particular, long-term investment. i would like to thank you for your answers to this green paper and the 30 questions we have asked, because many of you are interested in many of the subjects in this green paper on long-term investment.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to firstly welcome the very positive remarks which i have heard this morning on the draft legislative text. of course, i understand that some of you may not be entirely comfortable with certain aspects of the final political agreement. however, as i stressed in my opening remarks, we have had to find a balance between conflicting demands in view of the economic and the social realities. we must make our banks safer – i think we are all agreed on that – while ensuring that they can continue to serve a growing economy. that is the balance that has to be found. the result of our negotiations is quite clearly a compromise, but i think it is a very good compromise. we were united in sharing the single objective of ensuring that europe emerges from the current financial and economic crisis stronger and, most crucially, better able to serve its citizens. better financial regulation and stronger banks within the european union are one of the building blocks in this context. ms bowles referred to this as a good compromise in terms of striking a balance, and i very strongly support that. i think that enhanced disclosure and greater transparency can only be a good thing. i think, therefore, that this is a really important step in the right direction. i understand that you will be voting today on an amendment to article 416, paragraph 5d. this amendment deals with the treatment of repos for the purposes of the calculation of the leverage ratio. it has been suggested that to use the text in its current draft form would not be wise until a more comprehensive examination of the issues at hand has been undertaken at the basel committee. i can inform you today that the council can support this amendment as part of the overall package and i am happy to be in a position to say that. in conclusion …(the speaker continues in irish)ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil libh go léir, agus go háirithe leis an rapóirtéir, as an gcur chuige cuiditheach a ghlac an pharlaimint. táimid ag tnúth le críochnú teicniúil an téacs, agus a theacht i bhfeidhm a luaithe agus is féidir.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 16 april 2013, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
yesterday the president informed you of an interpretation of rule 159 (3) of the rules of procedure proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. in the absence of any objection, this interpretation is deemed to be accepted in accordance with article 211.
- two short-lived bombings in boston yesterday killed several people and injured many more, some of them seriously. innocent lives were destroyed at a sporting event. the boston marathon brings people from all over the world together in a city that, like no other, symbolizes america's quest for freedom and justice. on behalf of the european parliament, i express our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and wish the injured a speedy and full recovery. i would like to express our appreciation and gratitude to the united states authorities and the rescue teams involved in this tragedy. at this early stage, it is still unclear who planted the bombs and caused the explosions. i would like to make it quite clear, however, that terrorism is never justified. we stand with our american friends. our thoughts are with the people of boston, with the victims and their families and with those who were injured. (applause from the centre)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the future of the european union, here the statement by mr jyrki katainen, prime minister of finland (2013/2556 ((rsp)). mr katainen, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i also welcome our long-standing colleague and your current minister for europe, mr alexander stubb. (applause from the centre) this is a home game for him. the first thing i asked him was if he was at the gym this morning when he came in, because that's where he usually starts his day. he denied it, he was at the hotel gym. i would point out that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate. i am also pleased that the president of the commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, is doing us the honour.
mr daul, you have even caused applause in the stands. i love that. but, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to inform you that our rules of procedure do not provide for you to express your political views in the stands. that's for the members of parliament. but i could see why you were clapping.
but mr verhofstadt, we must speak with the committee on budgets about that.
mr president, you will now feel as if you were in finland. the next four speakers are mrs korhola, mrs jaakonsaari, mrs jäätteenmäki and mrs hassi. it is like the finnish parliament, and there are four colleagues who are now talking one after the other.
mr swoboda asked me why prime minister katainen did not reply between the first and second rounds. the reason is that we have been given the signal by the groups that there should be a general debate. that is what the services have told me.
the debate is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to raise two points which are important to my group on this matter. firstly, we have a second reading dossier on which we, the european parliament and the council, took a different position after the first reading. i very much regret that there is no opportunity to have at least a debate on this second reading in parliament. secondly, we have reached a compromise across the political groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am simply saying that it is not the style of our group to make compromises with the other institutions and then not to endorse those compromises in a united way but to table amendments again. i would be grateful if the other groups would reconsider in future dossiers whether it would not be possible to return to the old, usual way of proceeding.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission has taken note of parliament’s vote to reject the commission’s proposal. we regret this outcome, as we remain convinced that delaying the auctioning of further emission allowances is warranted, given the considerable surplus of allowances already on the market and the fact that this surplus has grown further since the commission presented its proposal. in line with the provisions of the framework agreement between our institutions, the commission will now reflect on the outcome of today’s vote and the way forward and will inform parliament of its conclusions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would just like to make a brief remark before this important vote. it was not as controversial as the groote report, thank god. i thank all those who have helped, in particular the rapporteur for the committee on transport, mr mathieu grosch. we are aiming to reach a global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gases in aviation. the commission has proposed a gesture to achieve this, and we support it after the trilogue. i would point out that if we want to support this compromise, we must vote for block 1 and for amendment no 18 in the respective sections and against all the other amendments. it's a compromise. it may not please everyone, but it is the right signal to the international community. that is why i ask that we do so.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission of course welcomes the result of today’s vote and thanks this parliament and particularly the rapporteur mr zasada for all the hard work that has been done. we are talking about ground-handling services, and they are a key function in the aviation chain. they are essential for 800 million passengers using eu airports every year, and if we want airports and airlines to remain competitive in europe, the quality and the efficiency of ground-handling services must be improved, in the passengers’ interest. following the adoption of this report, the commission now calls on the council and parliament to start negotiations quickly on the airports package proposals – particularly on slots, noise and ground-handling – by the end of this year.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we should only tackle the voluntary principle of cameras on fishing boats. that's my comment on that. thank you to all the shadows for your cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. parliament has today taken the wise decision to reject backloading in emissions trading. emissions trading was introduced in the european union for two reasons: we wanted to reduce co2 emissions, and we wanted to establish a market economy instrument to do this. both, it must be said, have succeeded. on the other hand, we never intended to develop a simple tax with this instrument. we never intended to close tax loopholes. if today the states complain that the revenue is too low, it must be said that this was never the objective function of this system. that's why the demand: you can't change the rules in the middle of the game. and that is why i am calling for the system to be allowed to work, to be allowed to be established. we should also build trust and not simply jeopardize trust, and finally we should not artificially increase costs in the economy. that is why it was good that parliament took the right decision today.
in writing. - i voted against the european commission's proposal to reduce the number of allowances in the emissions trading system (ets) because it sends the wrong signal to intervene in a market once we no longer like the prices there. i also think that the success of any intervention is doubtful. the need for further corrective market intervention is increasing. the result is that there is no longer any political confidence in the ets system. the loss of investor confidence would be the logical consequence. climate protection is a very important issue. if a climate protection system has not proved its worth, i think it is pointless to stick to it under all circumstances. we should be open to more effective alternatives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economy is global, and going it alone is not going to do any good. this is of course also true of air transport in particular, and it is therefore right that parliament has decided to suspend emissions trading in air transport for the time being and to supplement it with an international agreement. i would also like to say quite openly that if these negotiations do not lead to success, we should not re-enter this agreement even after a year, but should continue to rely on a global, international agreement. once again, the economy is global, so is air travel. we shouldn't give up our own advantages of location here without a fight.
in writing. - i do not agree with article 1 of the proposal to suspend the eu ets as far as the inclusion of the efta states is concerned. the commission has unilaterally decided that flights to and from efta states will also remain in the eu ets for 2012. the flights between the eu and switzerland are affected, as the other efta states have joined the eu-ets as eea members. there is no legal basis for this unilateral action by the commission towards the efta states. there is no agreement between the eu and efta concerning accession to the eu ets, as such an agreement is outside the competence of efta. there is no other agreement between the eu and switzerland. switzerland has repeatedly protested to the commission against its inclusion in the eu ets for 2012, as negotiations for future accession are still ongoing expected from 2015 . the swiss government has requested to be treated in the same way as other third countries. the court of justice has held that switzerland is to be regarded as a third country with regard to air transport (judgment of 7 march in case c-547/10 p). i believe that the eu must behave in the same way towards all third countries with regard to the suspension of the eu ets.
in writing. − the epp group supports the result of the trilogue as a good compromise even though not all our points have been included. it is very important to find a global agreement and to ask all eu institutions to work actively towards this goal in line with the adopted trilogue result. we very much welcome the very constructive role that switzerland has played in the international negotiations on climate change in general, and in aviation in particular. switzerland has always been an ally at the international civil aviation organisation (icao). we therefore regret that it was not possible to clarify all controversial questions between the eu and switzerland concerning ‘stop the clock’ and would encourage all stakeholders to continue the dialogue. we regret that there was obviously a lack of communication between the swiss and the eu authorities before the publication of the proposal. we encourage the commission and the swiss authorities to work together to find a satisfactory solution for all issues related to the question. it is crucial to work together at the icao to find a global agreement in september and we encourage both sides to speed up the discussions on the complete linking of the eu ets and switzerland. we would also encourage both sides to discuss common approaches on the question of how to spend the revenues, for example for common research projects and international climate policy.
in writing. - we see it again and again, most dramatically in the case of cyprus: europe's banks need to become more stable, and that means that they need to be much better prepared for difficult times and risky business than they are today. this will now be done by the implementation of the basel iii rules through the eu equity directive, which we are approving today. the more than 80 000 banks in the eu will have to have 8% equity capital in future. the systemically important banks will have to hold an additional 1-3% of core capital. the requirements for transparency are also being increased thanks to parliament: financial institutions will have to disclose profits, taxes, subsidies and turnover. more equity means better collateral, but it also means higher costs for business loans. however, the financing of enterprises was not the cause of the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. that was our big concern. this was to be prevented. the european parliament has played an important role here too: in future, sme loans will be considered with a lower risk weight than other loans. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we are therefore sending a clear signal against totally disproportionate bonuses which no citizen can understand.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall be voting in favour of the spd group on the commission proposal on ground transport services. the commission has proposed to increase the minimum number of groundhandling service providers at european airports from two to three. this further opening of the market promises to improve its competitiveness in international comparison. the first market opening in 1996 was already extremely critical of the social democrats. it has worsened the conditions of workers and led to massive wage cuts. the salaries of ground staff at german airports have since fallen by up to 40%. the proportion of temporary work is now over 50%, depending on the city. more competition is simply the wrong approach. we in the spd in the european parliament have therefore advocated that the member states should retain the power to decide on the increase in the minimum number of providers. it is not necessary to regulate the minimum number of providers uniformly throughout europe, as member states are best placed to assess the local situation themselves. the german spd group has therefore voted against the zasada report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - i voted against the commission proposal and the zasada report because i am against a further forced opening of the ground transport services market at european airports. i do not see the need for further liberalisation of the ground handling services, as they are already freely available and have a high level of productivity. this is illustrated by the example of frankfurt airport, where a limited number of competitors provide a better quality of ground handling. i support the position of the rapporteur, mr thomas mann, in the committee on employment and social affairs, because i believe that an increase in the number of providers in the areas of baggage handling, freight and postal services, front-line services and refuelling services will not further improve quality and safety. moreover, it cannot be excluded that further liberalisation will lead to a further deterioration of working conditions for thousands of airport employees.
in writing. - i voted against the zasada report on groundhandling services at european airports. i have always fought vehemently against turbo-liberalisation, which already in 1996 had led to massive wage pressure and worsening working conditions in the four sectors of baggage handling, freight and mail handling, front-line services and refuelling services. the only bright spot is the high social standards set out in my report to the employment committee, which were adopted by the plenary by an overwhelming three-quarters majority. these include a job guarantee for bvd employees when they change companies, the mandatory application of collective agreements and restrictions on competition in the event of social dumping and shortcomings in training. the plenary therefore voted in favour of more liberalization, albeit with very high social barriers. these conditions give member states wide latitude to limit increased competition. the rules on adequate protection against social dumping are not specified in detail but are the responsibility of the member states to define them. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the community. this is the parachute that can save ground traffic services from falling into the abyss. i am counting on the negotiations between the council and the ep to ensure quality of service, to protect workers from cheap competition and to uphold the principle that those who work well need a good income.
in writing. - i welcome the report which aims to achieve a socially acceptable improvement in the handling of passengers at european airports. in view of the many discussions i have had and the many changes which have been made to the original commission proposal, this regulation can help to improve the quality of european ground handling services by setting minimum standards of quality and deadlines, etc. at the same time, working conditions in the sector are being improved. this excludes social dumping. the aim of this improvement is to provide all air passengers with a genuine internal market in ground handling services: fewer delays and less lost baggage.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the annual report on the european central bank is on our agenda this week. the european union's treaties require the ecb to be accountable to this house, and with the report we are voting on tomorrow we are fulfilling our role of democratic control of the central bank, at least within the framework set by the treaty. the ecb's role has never been more important in the face of the crisis. we should therefore take our control function more seriously than ever. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. have we found the right solution to the crisis? do the crisis countries see any light at the end of the tunnel? is the ecb not in need of a new mandate in view of the wealth of new tasks it has assumed? these are the questions which marisa has rightly raised in her report. the citizens expect us to ask these questions and to answer them honestly. our citizens are tired of the eyewashes and slogans of perseverance that we have been giving them for the past five years. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has the power to make decisions on the basis of the treaty. mr draghi himself has just pointed out how dramatic the situation is in some countries under the troika regime and that in three or four years the measures have not led to what they should have led to and what was promised to the people. the eurozone is the only region in the world that has not emerged from recession in 2013 - five years after the financial crisis began. instead of analyzing the situation, you're going to say we've already found the solution? while we are dictating very precisely to the weakest member states how to organise their budgets, you want to put a lid on financial institutions which have received much higher levels of liquidity support. the citizens criticize us for not trying more consistently to commit our banking sector to the service of the real economy. i therefore ask you to support the report in the vote in the way that mrs matias has negotiated it with the shadows and in the way that it has been adopted in econ.
i have to say, madam president, if you listen to the debate here, you get the impression that the ecb has made only mistakes in recent years. the fact is quite different: the ecb was the stabilizing factor in the financial market crisis. the results are excellent, mr draghi, and i would like to thank you very much for your good crisis management! even though we did not agree with everything, the ecb has overcome the political inability to act. it was you who helped to prevent the euro crisis, the euro-state crisis, from becoming more acute. and if i look at the debate here, mr klute, this report was adopted by a narrow majority of 23 to 22. you can't fool us into agreeing to this crap that's partly in there. and i say explicitly that we are firmly against a european deposit guarantee. and we are firmly opposed to the extension of the ecb's mandate without a change in the treaty. the treaties are clear: the ecb is responsible for monetary policy, it is independent, it has to maintain price stability, it is internationally responsible for the eurozone. but not for unemployment, debt relief, structural reform! that is the responsibility of the member states. and the member states which have not done so must face up to this task and not blame the ecb and its president! let me mention one point on which i disagree with the ecb: that is the extension of the mandate on the basis of article 126 (7) of the eu treaty. it clearly states that the european central bank can only carry out certain tasks related to credit supervision. this does not justify the full takeover of banking supervision. i therefore believe that, despite all the decisions taken, the treaty must be amended here too. thank you for your good work, though. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, it is not that certain activities of the ecb need to be called into question. the question whether it is only temporarily buying up government bonds or whether it is even indirectly refinancing states must also be critically considered. mr draghi has answered them correctly. it's only temporary. banking supervision is not provided for in the eu treaty. the task of the troika is quite different! its role is to support the states in their reform process. the same justification should be used to call the commission and the international monetary fund to account. it is not our job to recall a member of the ecb, as your report says. this would severely restrict the independence of the european central bank. i would like to ask you to stick to the treaty and not to your ideology. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is: where in mrs matias' report do you read that the mandate of the ecb is to be changed without a treaty change? what mrs matias has done is to ask questions which naturally lead to a change in the mandate, or to a discussion where it is sensible to change the mandate. you yourself have in principle mentioned that the ecb has taken on tasks which go beyond the limits of its mandate. i therefore think it is quite justified to put these questions on the agenda. that's all it is!
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not in a position to do so. i understand you're leaning on your communist colleague. i have not only taken the report but also the contribution of mrs matias. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. she said: 'who gave her permission to go beyond her mandate in the troika programme?' who gave her the right and the duty? and the infamous ukip colleague, mr bloom, who has already left, has even said that this is a war crime. where are we if we do not defend in its mandate an institution which guarantees the independence of our monetary policy and stabilises the euro? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i can explain. this is not only true of greece, but of all the member states of the eurozone which have not kept their agreements and the treaty. this wasn't greece in the beginning. it was germany and france that were the first to break the stability and growth pact. then there were other countries. but the fact that interest rates are converging does not give us the opportunity to go into debt and live at the expense of others, but it gives us the opportunity to introduce reforms. and some member states have not done so voluntarily, and now it's just a much harder and more difficult process, where the political elites of the respective countries have failed and not the ecb.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the discharge to the eu budget is not a ritual. the discharge of the eu budget is a step towards assessing and optimising the management of this budget. the bad news is that the error rate has risen slightly from 3.7% to 3.9% for the total budget of the european union. the house has wanted a clear trend towards the so-called 2% threshold of relevance, and this is not the case. but there are two facts we cannot ignore, and that is the good news. first, in 2011, the european union's spending programmes were fully operational. in previous funding periods, we have seen double-digit error rates at this point in the program's life. and this progress is commendable. however, regional policy and rural development are the areas that still cause us the most concern because of high error rates: 6% error in regional policy payments, downward trend, 7.7% error in rural development payments, upward trend. both budgetary areas are under shared management. this means that the regions in the eu member states manage the projects. and this is where the mistakes are made. it is therefore not fair to link the granting of discharge only to an unqualified declaration of reliability by the european court of auditors, as seems to be the tradition in the eurosceptic parts of this house. commissioner šemeta is right: if the member states do not cooperate, we cannot further reduce the error rate in the eu budget. the european court of auditors found in its annual report that almost two thirds of the errors in regional policy should have been detected by the member states' control systems. this shows the extent of the irresponsibility of the member states. the second good news is that the commission has committed itself to implementing all the priorities which i proposed in my discharge report and which the committee on budgetary control supports. to name just three: in future, no more funding should be given for completed projects, so-called retrospective projects. net reductions in financial corrections will continue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. and in future we will have a list showing the total financial corrections made, by programme and by member state. all these points lead me to recommend to this house that the eu budget be discharged.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner šemeta, members of the european court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great privilege, during ireland’s presidency of the council of the european union, to be able to participate in this very important debate, which of course focuses on the implementation of the eu budget. in times of economic and financial crisis, when many member states have to cut their national budgets and keep their expenditure under strict control, sound financial management of eu funds is more important than ever. the citizens of europe expect us to be particularly attentive to the quality of eu spending. the debate here today, and the continuous efforts of member states and the commission to improve financial management systems and to bring down error rates, is important to ensure credibility in the public perception regarding the programmes and actions financed from the eu budget. let me turn to the recommendations. on 19 february 2013, i had the great honour to present to the european parliament’s committee on budgetary control the council’s recommendation on the discharge to be given to the commission for the implementation of the 2011 budget. i was able to participate in a very interesting, fruitful and frank debate. the council recommended granting discharge to the commission and outlined the reasons leading to this recommendation. the council’s recommendation welcomes the court’s clean opinion on the reliability of the annual accounts and the court’s statement of assurance on the implementation of the 2011 budget. the council acknowledged that the court’s audit findings confirm the relative stability in the error rate observed in recent years. it considered that this was the result of numerous efforts made by the commission and, of course, by member states over several years. however, the recommendation reiterates the wish of the council to see year-on-year improvements in financial management systems and lower error rates. the council’s recommendation, therefore, reaffirms a number of elements which should be followed up and implemented by the commission. speaking here in front of you today, i am glad to see that many of the elements stressed by the council in our recommendation have also been expressed by the european parliament in your recommendations. i am convinced that both our institutions must work together to achieve progress towards the aim of achieving a positive statement of assurance from the court. we must continue encouraging all financial actors involved in the management of eu funds to fully assume their responsibilities and to further strengthen their efforts to reduce the error rate. we must ensure that limited funds are spent in the best and most effective way for the benefit of all our citizens. these efforts are particularly important for the programmes and actions implemented under shared management by the commission and the member states. the new financial regulation provides a number of opportunities for the commission to reinforce supervision and control structures and to strengthen its cooperation with its guidance to member state authorities. i want to make it absolutely clear that this is a long process. a major part of the intended improvements will only be visible over time. however, we have seen improvements in recent years when one compares the error rate from one programme to the next. to conclude, let me emphasise that we – the european parliament and the council – also have to fulfil all our duties. as the court rightly points out, eu policy objectives need to become much simpler, and rules made much clearer and easier to implement at member state level. the ongoing discussion on the programme for the new mff provides a good opportunity to achieve major progress towards simplification with due attention being paid to the control and prevention of errors. of course the achievement of results from eu policies must remain the overarching priority when setting up programmes while bearing in mind the need to avoid excessive administrative and control burdens. let us all work together to achieve our mutual objectives and to achieve better legislation and better implementation. let us jointly create added value for europe, and let us give a clear signal to europe’s citizens and taxpayers that eu funds are used with the highest responsibility and accountability.
member of the commission. − madam president, i want to thank this house, and in particular the rapporteur jens geier, for the constructive and fruitful cooperation in the context of the budgetary discharge for the financial year 2011. i also want to express my thanks to minister brian hayes and the irish presidency, who ensured that a genuine discussion on sound financial management took place in the council. this led to the adoption of the recommendations, which the commission fully welcomes and supports. finally, i want to stress that, once again, the court of auditors report has been instrumental in framing the whole discharge process and helping all of us to focus on the main issues and identify the way forward, with a view to improving the financial management of the eu budget. despite the improvements achieved over the past years, the commission remains vigilant, as the situation could deteriorate. this is particularly the case for programmes under shared management, where the member states are in the front line of the management and control of eu funds, and where the court finds the highest level of errors. the annual error rate estimated by the court of auditors is one important indicator, but it is not the only one deserving of our attention. the commission, therefore, welcomes the priority action requesting a comprehensive report on how the eu budget is actually protected by the commission, with a detailed presentation of preventive and corrective mechanisms and their results in financial terms. in 2011, recoveries and financial corrections carried out by the commission amounted to eur 1.84 billion. i can announce that this amount has significantly increased in 2012. the performance of the programmes and the added value they provide to the beneficiaries also deserve more attention. the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness need to be better reflected in the design of the programmes. the commission has included the necessary instruments to measure performance in its proposals for the next programming period. the article 318 evaluation report helps to produce a better picture of how our programmes are actually delivering value for money. this reporting instrument will be further improved in the future. as in previous discharge procedures, budget implementation under shared management continues to deserve specific attention this year. not only do these programmes account for around 80% of the eu budget, but their eligibility rules are often complex and constitute a substantial source of errors. moreover, the national authorities do not necessarily endeavour to fulfil their role and responsibility adequately, as the court stressed in its report. the commission has proposed the simplification of many of the current complex rules. i call on both co-legislators to endorse those proposals to establish the appropriate legal framework for better spending, both in terms of the efficient allocation of funds and reduced error rates. moreover, the newly-introduced management declaration is an important element in improving financial actors’ accountability. together with jan mulder, we will examine in an interinstitutional working group how another tool – the national declarations – can further improve member states’ accountability through the political endorsement of the national reporting process under shared management. as the legislation for the spending programmes cannot be easily changed during the implementation period, the lessons drawn from this discharge exercise have to be immediately taken into consideration by the negotiators of the legal basis of the next multiannual financial framework. the commission counts on the presidency and on this house to support the commission’s proposals aimed at ensuring the cost-effective financial management of the eu budget, including the simplification measures. i can assure you that the commission will demonstrate its firm commitment to achieving all possible improvements which are expected by this house, for the benefit of eu citizens, and to making the eu programmes a success. thank you for your attention.
member of the court of auditors − madam president, the annual discharge debate is a key point in the yearly scrutiny of the quality of european union spending and plays a major role in ensuring the accountability of the european institutions to eu citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the committee on budgetary control for the excellent handling of this discharge cycle. the court is content to see that its work has informed the discharge process and has contributed to proposals for improving the financial management of eu spending and better targeting of eu funds. in this respect i would like to highlight three key issues. firstly, the european court of auditors – as the external auditor of the european union – is the guardian of the sound management of eu funds. its role is to provide an independent and balanced view. the court values highly the recognition by the discharge report of the different roles played by the institutions: the external auditor on the one hand and the manager on the other. secondly, the court has been adamant about highlighting the importance of the full commitment of member states in ensuring better rules and better spending. as mr caldeira said in this room on 22 november last year, ‘national authorities operate the first – and most important – line of defence in protecting the financial interests of eu citizens.’ the discharge resolution acknowledges this, for example, by calling on member states to identify unnecessarily complex national rules. finally, the court’s audit results over the years show that improving the design of spending schemes and their implementing rules, simplification and reducing red tape have had an effect in terms of the errors the court is finding. nevertheless, the main messages of the 2011 annual report did not change significantly compared to previous years. this was expected – the arrangements for how to spend money and what to spend it on have been fixed for the current multiannual programming period. the court still sees scope for further improving the quality of spending by simply applying the current system to its full potential. especially in the areas with the highest error rates – rural development and regional policy – the court identified many control failures in member states. on the other hand, the current input-based spending scheme certainly has its limits for potential improvement. it is worth considering whether this system can deliver the desired results for all stakeholders – better-targeted eu spending. for example, the commission’s proposal for the 2014-2020 cohesion framework opens the door to linking payments to outputs, albeit in a rather timid way. it is for this parliament and the council to decide on the framework which will determine how the eu budget is spent over the rest of this decade. the thrust of this discharge report is crystal clear: the economic and financial crisis has greatly increased the demand for high-quality public spending. rules and regulations against which the auditor measures the legality and regularity of expenditure must work towards achieving well-defined public goods and services. this is a message to the liking of your independent auditor, ladies and gentlemen – no auditor likes checking against cumbersome rules and procedures, designed to delay or reduce the potential benefits stemming from the public money spent. thank you for listening.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the economic committee has assessed the three new supervisory authorities created in 2010 in response to the financial crisis: eba, esma and eiopa. the committee has examined the court's reports and has discussed some of the main complaints with the authorities themselves. the following findings remain. firstly, the establishment of the three authorities was right and necessary. secondly, the construction phase was not without errors and shortcomings in accounting, personnel, budgetary execution and procurement procedures. but it also had to be done very quickly. thirdly, the three authorities have agreed to put an end to the initial errors quickly and to take them into account in the recruitment process. fourthly, all three authorities will need to have their own independent budget lines in future, because the present mixed financing system creates problems of control, calls for tenders and selection of staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i personally thank the rapporteur and hope that the progress made in building up these three important authorities will continue in the coming year.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we in the environment committee are responsible for only 0.79% of the eu budget. but environment, climate, health, food safety and feed safety are very much present in the minds of citizens throughout the union, at least through the life programme, the health action programme and the disaster prevention programme. we are pleased that the commission was able to implement all the relevant budget lines to between 95 and 99%. our recommendation is as follows: discharge. the court of auditors recommends it. the court of auditors, speaking of which, we expect that the court will present the individual policy areas in its report differently in the near future. the environment is put in the same pot with fisheries and rural development and labelled with a 7,7% error rate. none of this is the environmental department's fault. so this is not working! we also call for the discharge to be given to all five agencies under the jurisdiction of our committee. i repeat, for all five of us, including the epa. there is no reason to postpone the discharge for the eea. we cannot rely on conjecture, rumor, hearsay.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'm speaking for the transportation committee. we've looked at and reviewed four agencies. i can say in advance that we have proposed discharge for all by a large majority. i'll start with cesar. this is the agency which, among other things, is responsible for european air traffic management systems and will play a crucial role in creating the single european airspace we all want. then i come to emsa, the agency for maritime safety. there, it is even expected to have additional responsibilities, because it is also expected to be responsible for pollution from oil platforms. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. the european railway agency (era) has improved its compliance with the budgetary principle of annuality, but there is still room for improvement. but it has very important tasks to perform. we have the fourth railway package. it's about creating the railway space. it is crucial. we had a complaint with easa, the european aviation safety agency. there were conflicts of interest because some employees were now required to issue certificates to certain institutes where they had previously worked for the industry. of course, that has to change. but they have given themselves a code of conduct, so that you can say that everything is fine now and on the right track.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr salafranca, could you please inform the member responsible for the libe committee reports that i have a question for him concerning eurojust: does he think it is right and sensible for one of the vice-presidents of eurojust to be a director in the tax haven of panama, even though his job is to combat tax evasion? did the colleague check that in his report? mr salafranca, could you please tell your colleague?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp supports the commission's discharge. that's what this is about. we are releasing the burden because we fully recognize the progress made in the control of resources. we also agree because the commission is improving its cooperation with parliament and has already accepted important demands. it also responded appropriately to the court of auditors' discharge report and provided credible explanations. but as far as the actual content is concerned, there is no reason to be alarmed. the increasing error rates in agricultural and research policy are unacceptable. in 2011, less than one fifth of the cohesion fund payments were correctly settled. the situation in the individual member states is still too little known. we therefore support the action plan of the rapporteur, mr geier. mr geier, i would speak a little more boldly of a budgetary control offensive. we have here at least 30 demands and deadlines with which we bind the commission. examples of this are: we want a commission report on the protection of the eu budget by september 2013 and every year thereafter, with all the corrective measures, differentiated by member state, with a traffic light system. we want more transparency in the ngos, we want cause-and-effect reports on the state of agriculture and research. we also want more responsibility for the commission in the certification procedures of the audit authorities in the member states. there's a lot of stuff going on here, which the court has reported. ladies and gentlemen, the action plan is crucial for future budgetary relief. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. why does it not insist on a mandatory rotation of the higher officials? why do the s&ds refuse to have a survey of civil servants' salaries and a survey by eurostat? why does it refuse to discuss the european added value of the support programmes? i think that the european taxpayers deserve answers to these questions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask you if you really understand the difference between a mistake and a fraud. you say you cannot explain to your voters that 5 billion euros are being spent wrongly. i explain a mistake to my constituents like this: if, for example, a european union training programme is run by a welfare association in germany, which pays for training for women coming from family break, and if 16 of the 20 vacant places are filled, and two of the four vacant places are filled with men, then this is a mistake. this is not fraud or misuse of funds, but a mistake in the way the budget is being implemented. is it too complicated?
mr president, commissioner, minister hayes, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i would first of all like to thank the commission and the council for their good cooperation in this discharge procedure, and i would first of all like to thank our rapporteurs, who have done a very good job. the democratic control of public expenditure is a central part of directly elected parliaments and therefore the discharge procedure is a very important political task for us every year. it is particularly important in times of ever-shrinking public funds that we pay close attention to the fact that taxpayers' money is being spent properly and in the right places. unfortunately, the court of auditors has again found countless examples of bad investment: airports where no planes land, ports where no ships arrive, toll roads where too few cars drive. and it is good and right that we ask critically why this could happen, so that lessons can be learned, so that such misspending does not happen again in the future. but we should also leave the church in the village. where there are people, mistakes happen. you can't criminalize people. above all, we find that the error rates are also due to the fact that eu regulations are too complicated. that is why the liberal group is calling for a simplification of the rules. let us simplify, standardize, so that fewer mistakes are made. and here we are at a crucial juncture. this is a matter for the member states. and some heads of state and government, such as british prime minister cameron, have spoken out against the misuse of eu funds, but 80% of these funds are shared responsibility, they are administered by the member states. the heads of state and government must take matters into their own hands. and we as a parliament are calling on the member states to do more to ensure that the money is spent better there. let us work together to achieve a better use of taxpayers' money in the eu and in the member states.
the commission has already done so. mr president-in-office, welcome to the council. this is a very special honor, and we really appreciate you listening to this. it's one of the few times that the council hasn't had to be brought in. that's why we're charging you a very high price! between you and me, it wasn't that bad, was it? i would now like to present the highlights of my biannual council discharge debate. and we could actually start with the council and ask the same questions we asked when you were here. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. but let us now begin with the council: why do you not answer our parliamentary questions on the council budget - at least the written questions - ? the committee on budgetary control has held a hearing and we are entitled to it afterwards. the question now is whether we have to sue you specifically in luxembourg for the answers or whether you could perhaps at least try to answer these questions and put the answers on the home page. we'll find them there. that would be a big request if we could agree on that. i have another question: what has become of the better spending initiative in the council? it is also one of my hobbies, one of my favourites, as my colleague herczog says. the better spending initiative from the council is the best i've seen in recent years. and that's exactly what we need, which is to ask why italy and spain have the highest error rates. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have some more highlights of the half-year's work with the figures: the secretary-general of the commission did not tell the truth before the committee on budgetary control about the dalli case and the lobbying, but that, like many other distortions of the truth, will probably remain without consequence. i have not received an answer to the question put to commissioner andor as to what we have achieved with european money in combating youth unemployment over the past year. that is what i personally find most problematic. the most problematic answer that has remained open is precisely this: what have we achieved in terms of youth unemployment? i was then informed that president schulz was covering up the wrongdoing of his socialist party colleague, the director-general of olaf. i have already made my views known yesterday. we have seen that the edf has a spectacularly increased error rate, but that we do not know anything about the 737 million euro, because they are outside, they concern the budget subsidy. the question will be: how do we deal with the budgetary allowance in future and with the error rate, mr commissioner and also mrs president of the court of auditors? i would like to conclude with the ead, the european external action service. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. we have directorates with 22 and 27 members, directorates-general with 44. this is a bureaucratic water head. and it is actually disloyalty to the taxpayer to put up with such structures. i like to think that with all the ticks the auditors are putting on it, everything is going right, but the whole thing is badly managed. it is not justifiable to spend so much money on this. that is why it is important for me that the european court of auditors should look into this. what are we gonna do? 36 the european union maintains one-man delegations. thirty-six of them! what is the efficiency of these structures? what's next? i'd like an answer to that, too. four eu ambassadors retired in 2012 and each received on average eur 35 000 paid for unused leave. the amount is eur 35 000! that's 680 euros for every day of vacation you don't take. do you think that's a good idea? i'm not ! the taxpayer is not happy about that either. so we have a lot of open points. let's get this show on the road.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first, i have to apologize to secretary hayes. i regret that i missed it when i greeted him at the beginning of the debate. i am glad that the presidency of the council is here. you are setting new standards, minister hayes, because so far we have been rather lacking in the presidency of the council in the discharge debates. so, my appreciation that the irish presidency is taking part in this debate and is contributing constructively. you offered to cooperate. we're happy to do that. given that 80% of european union expenditure is under shared management, a peer review in the council - that is, among member states' governments - of how money is managed would be a huge step forward. i know it's wishful thinking, but in politics, sometimes you have to wish for something to see when it comes true. i would also like to thank - and i have not yet done so in my first contribution - my shadow rapporteur, the commission, its departments, including the commissioners, who were available at all times and responded very positively to my questions and proposals, the court of auditors, which has also been very constructive in its support of our work, the advisers in my group and my assistants, without whom this work, which i will conclude with the vote here tomorrow, would not have been possible. i have been asked a few questions which i would like to answer, including why certain points have not been included in the draft report by my group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we do not keep silent on certain points, we discuss them where they belong. unfortunately, in this house, it is not appropriate to burden the discharge report, which is supposed to deal with the commission's budgetary management, with all sorts of points which are either only very difficult to relate to discharge or have nothing to do with it. that is why we are not saying anything about olaf; we shall discuss that better elsewhere. i do not want to risk the commission's anti-fraud unit being arbitrarily reduced to nothing. that is why we are not discussing the rotation of officials, because i think these are matters which are more to do with the juri than with the cont. mr pieper, i did not accept your proposal to evaluate cohesion projects because i am very concerned that we will not be able to demonstrate in each individual case how one or another project really represents european added value. you are the vice-chairman of the committee of the regions. if we go down this road, we are going in the direction of people who actually want to bury cohesion policy. it's not really in your best interest. that is also true of many of the amendments which i have received from my friends in the gue. they propose that we discuss the troika's approach here tomorrow in connection with the discharge debate. ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with the discharge! we will not fall into the trap which is being set for us by a rollcall vote. we should be more reasonable about the relief.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the budgetary plans for this year's budget for parliament have been the subject of a very intensive and very structured debate. i should like to begin by thanking the bureau, especially vice-presidents vidal-quadras and pittella, who have worked closely with us, and the secretary-general and all the staff who have worked with us on intensive research and analysis in order to produce a sound and good budget. the 2014 budget looks big at first, with an increase of officially 3.29%, and yet it is a so-called minus budget. why would you do that? the cost of the legislative procedure alone, that is to say the transition from one legislature to another, is already 2.2%. the accession of croatia will add another 0.78% to the costs. at the same time, the increase in salaries is 1.3%, which is legally binding. this means that the total legally binding expenditure increases alone amount to 4.28%. this means that the present proposal already includes a minus 1%. this means that we have to make savings. we have already introduced the structural change and savings approach in recent years, i.e. not just trying to cut and cut a few lines here and there, but actually implementing structural changes. we have been able to achieve very significant savings, particularly in the area of travel and in the area of translation and interpretation. for example, some eur 29 million was saved in the area of translation. we have achieved very significant savings in travel, both on the part of members and on the part of officials and employees. we have already frozen the flat-rate allowances for members since 2011. this has already been the case for employees and civil servants since 2007. so we have already saved a lot of money and we have identified in the joint working group seven other areas where we want to identify savings or re-location opportunities. we want to analyse these very intensively and not present them in a quick shot. because anything that happens in a snap is ultimately unsustainable and then needs to be corrected later. that is why i am asking for everyone's support as we tackle these seven other areas. it will also be very exciting to see what impact the changes to the staff regulations will have on parliament's budget, as will the ecj's decision on salaries and the decision by the heads of government to hold two zero-round elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to stress one point in particular: the european parliament is increasingly confronted with delegated acts, with directives that have enormous impact. and we ourselves still have relatively few human resources to carry out an independent assessment of the impact of legislation and to monitor what is presented to us by the commission, both ex ante and ex post. in this sense, i believe it is urgent that we strengthen ourselves in this area, because if the european parliament is to be seen publicly as an institution of control and as the people's advocate in the european union, we must have the capacity to do so in these important areas.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to point out once again that the increase in the budget is not 3.6% but is currently 3.29%. secondly, it is essential for me to reject the claim that the cost of the house of european history has doubled. the house of european history is sticking to the business plan in terms of costs, there have been no changes in costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this too has now been achieved, so that planning is completely normal. i think it is extremely important that we explain to the citizens why this european union exists and why we are introducing the political developments within the european union, both historical and modern. because if you do not explain yourself, you cannot expect the citizens to understand you. and we want people to understand us. we must do this in a variety of fields. the principle of multilingualism is absolutely preserved. i can only give one example, namely that we no longer translate the minutes of the plenary sessions. there has not been a single request for translation in the last year. it seems that the structural changes we have made here are perfectly correct and have brought savings which were both sensible and necessary. we are also taking a creative approach by seeking to strengthen cooperation with the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee in areas where there are no institutional issues but rather translation issues where there are opportunities for cooperation. the fact that civil servants have a raise should not be questioned insofar as we must abide by the law and the rule of law. the laws we have must be obeyed. if other decisions are ever made, we will again abide by the law. but it cannot be that we are only asked to respond to outside pressure. we should argue to people as a parliament that in order to represent them we must be good at our job. in the end, people will understand carefully chosen issues.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to encourage the european parliament to give its consent, by a vote on thursday, to this upgraded visa facilitation agreement with ukraine. i take this opportunity to express the wish that the council, for its part, will soon make progress with the ratification process so that the agreement can enter into force before the summer of this year. i should like to reiterate what i said in my introductory remarks: visa facilitation is not a gift to the government but is addressed to the ukrainian population at large. as regards the concerns expressed by ms lunacek, ms in 't veld and mr cashman, let me clarify that the visa facilitation agreement foresees facilitations for members of civil society organisations. these facilitations are granted by the european union; the government of ukraine will not decide on them. thus this agreement will be accessible to lgbt activists as well. this brings me to the points raised by ms in 't veld and ms cornelissen concerning the amendment of the law on anti-discrimination adopted in september last year to include the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. let me say that the commission is aware that amendments to the law of ukraine on the principles of preventing and combating discrimination are currently being prepared by the ukrainian authorities. the eu has encouraged the ukrainian authorities to ensure close consultation with the representatives of ukraine’s civil society in this process. we maintain our view that the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation should be included within the scope of such legislation, reflecting also the existing eu acquis in the field of employment. there should also be a strengthening of the legal remedies available to people who suffer from discrimination. so, to conclude, i fully agree that we must continue to be vigilant on the issues and values that matter for civil liberties and human rights.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the very swift treatment of this important legislative proposal. i would like to thank the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and, in particular, ms danuta hübner and the shadow rapporteurs and political groups for the constructive dialogue on this file in recent weeks and months. now that a political agreement has been reached on the two-pack, this proposal is the next important step to reinforce our stability mechanisms and revise and update them. we should avoid running the risk of focusing too narrowly on the euro area. this is exactly the aim of the new commission proposal that revises the current balance of payments regulation. the existing regulation has not sufficiently kept pace with the development of new assistance tools which were created for the euro area with the establishment of the efsf, the efsm and the permanent esm. furthermore, the regulation does not take into account the recent reforms to economic governance aimed at strengthening economic and budgetary coordination, the two-pack legislation in particular. against that background, the new commission proposal builds on the existing regulation but goes beyond it with the aim of providing non-euro area member states with more financial instruments – in other words, credit lines such as the enhanced conditions credit line or the precautionary conditional credit line – and ensuring a larger level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states. urgent progress on this regulation is required, as the crisis does not remain limited to the euro area only. the same or similar financial assistance instruments and governance tools should be made available, in legislation, to non-euro area member states as soon as possible. non-euro-area member states should not have to fight the crisis – when this is necessary – with their hands tied behind their backs. therefore urgent legislative action is needed, and such action by the european parliament would be highly appreciated.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs danuta hübner, for her excellent report, which puts the finger in the wound where we must be very careful. it is not that we are making huge financial market regulations, but the european parliament is essentially outside the legislative process. that is why we have deliberately chosen the instrument of an interim report, and i very much regret that there is a yawning vacuum on the council's side, because this resolution is not addressed to the commission but to the council. that is why it should have been obvious that the council was listening. i can also say, however, especially to the germans in the epp group, that we are still concerned about a few points. the question of bank recapitalisation in particular is very important. there is the question of amending the esm treaty, which was created in a different configuration, and in particular the question of transferring unused funds from the efsm, which is due to expire. we are already asking ourselves whether it is really right to make a mixture of euro and non-euro countries here, as was done in the report. so basically the report is going in the right direction, the epp group will also agree, but for the sake of my cdu/csu colleagues, i can announce that we will abstain.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are the only group in the green group which supports the commission's proposal to provide generous state aid schemes for small businesses only, except in the less-favoured regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. larger companies will only invest in a region if the region pays them well for the investment. if another region offers even better government subsidies a short time later, they leave after a short time, leaving the first region unemployed and in debt. this puts the regions in the eu in competition for subsidies and they ultimately bear the risk of business investment. companies, on the other hand, move from place to place throughout europe with net profits. i would just like to remind you of the nokia case. nokia closed the bochum plant a year later, despite record profits in 2007. the centre was built in 1999 with public funding of eur 41 million. the production moved to cluj thanks to generous romanian aid. after only three years, the factory there closed down to move to asia. the eu also paid for over 1000 redundant workers each time from the globalisation fund. this is why the european parliament has called in the new framework regulation for the structural funds for large companies to remain in place for at least 10 years or else they will have to repay the funds. we greens expect the commission to include these 10 years in its aid scheme. i hope that you will give me a positive answer today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the large companies do not need the aid. they are only constantly being moved from one place to another by a competitive aid system. we have seen this, and the nokia case is a good example. so we need two things: we need to exclude large companies from more generous aid, as the commission has proposed. that is why we greens support it. secondly, we need the ten-year regulation for the poorer regions where large companies receive aid.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in addition to the structural funds, regional aid is one of the main instruments for promoting regional development and increasing the economic power of regions. at the same time, they help to pave the way for the establishment of nearly equivalent living conditions in the different regions. it would have been useful to combine the negotiations already under way on the new structural funds regulations with the discussion on the new aid directives. that's been brought up. in times like these, when economic developments vary from one member state to another and from one region to another, the flexible and accelerated application of support instruments is of great importance. the commission has therefore welcomed all the proposals in the new aid directives which lead to block exemptions and exemptions from notification requirements in certain areas. it is also good that the firms receiving aid are obliged to remain in the place where they are receiving aid. that is the way it is, mrs schroedter. however, the new classification of former a and current c regions as a and c regions, especially in border regions adjacent to the new a regions, has significant disadvantages which could hinder or even reverse the positive trend in these areas. the restriction of the c-regions to aid for enterprises with only up to 250 employees or a turnover of eur 50 million is too restrictive. the proposed population ceiling is not high enough for a number of eligible regions in germany, and particularly in eastern germany. the requirements for evidence and evaluation laid down in the guidelines are too extensive, add to the bureaucratic burden and will be difficult to meet, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i hope that the commission will take account of the comments and indications which parliament will make and will revise the proposal for a directive accordingly. that is why i am grateful to the commissioner for coming on to our committee. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to know, mr zeller, whether your group also supports the commission's proposal to increase the five-year period to ten years, in line with our request in the framework regulation on the structural funds.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not the spokesman for the group, i am speaking for myself. but if you asked me personally, i'm for those ten years. that's the case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is clear to liberals that the competitiveness of regions must be strengthened. however, such regional aid must also be designed in such a way as not to distort competition. it is therefore good that you have made proposals to ensure competition. however, your proposal is a little too black and white for us. we believe that it is precisely border regions, as mr zeller has mentioned, that should be taken into account. we also believe that the traditional definition of smes is too narrow. there are companies with more than 250 employees, but they are not yet large enterprises. we therefore ask that more flexibility be included in your proposal. we very much welcome the fact that you have already indicated that the commission is prepared to raise the ceiling for assisted areas from 42% to 45%. if we can get that flexibility and those additions, then we can agree to your proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to mention again a specific issue which has already been raised by some of my colleagues, namely the problem of border regions between member states where we have a maximum aid area on the one hand and no aid area in the future on the other. in particular, this problem occurs in europe at the former iron curtain. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. no region can withstand such a gap in production within a few kilometres. these regions will then bleed out. i therefore ask the commission to reflect on this particular problem. we must ensure, through a special ceiling on aid, that there is no greater than a maximum of 15% difference in aid between regions at any given border. i would like to emphasize once again that it is the regions that are carrying europe today. the reunification of europe is not decided mainly in berlin or vienna or munich, but it is carried out in these border regions where people experience europe in their everyday lives, every day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must not therefore impose additional burdens on them by creating greater disparities in the level of support. i ask the commissioner to take this into account.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the constitutional amendments in hungary (2013/2577 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate and that no 'blue card' communications will be taken into account.
(mr szájer answers a question on the 'blue card' procedure) i am sorry about that, mr. sajer. we agreed at the beginning of this debate that there would be no 'blue card' or 'catch-the-eye' debate. i have also made a specific announcement beforehand. (interruption of the debate) this has nothing to do with democracy. it is a matter of the rules of procedure and it has been so decided by the political groups in advance. i shall stick to the decisions you the groups make here. but please, if you really want to, ask this question according to the 'blue card' procedure.
i am not going to go into detail. maybe we can try to calm down. this is an emotional debate. let's not kid ourselves. it is clear from the top that there is a clear division of political camps. sometimes you have to try to channel your emotions. i'm trying to do that now. we have accepted a question from mr szájer. i have nothing to add to what mr cohn-bendit has said. i'm assuming now that that was the only question of that nature. (mr cramer replies to another question on the 'blue card' procedure.) no, mr. cramer, you can't report here as a prophylactic. only one blue card question is allowed at a time. so i 'm deciding this now: from now on, i won't allow any more questions. we can't do that for a variety of reasons. that was a decision of the conference of presidents.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's not the first time we've discussed hungary. i would like to begin by addressing the citizens of hungary directly once again, and to make one thing clear: we are not simply interfering in hungary's internal affairs. but civil rights and the rule of law - i don't know how you see it - are at the heart of the european project! i am saying this as a german european, and i believe that if we keep repeating this as an empty promise for the european union and fail to make it a reality, we are abandoning the very essence of the european project. therefore, the relationship between internal affairs and europe, the claim made repeatedly by viktor orbán and also by mr szájer that we are interfering in hungary like a foreign power, like moscow and earlier vienna, is simply politically expedient, but it is also a lie. i don't know if the citizens of budapest can hear us, i don't know what they're thinking, because it's very clever that the breakdown of the rule of law and civil rights in hungary started with the mainstreaming of the media and the change of the media law. i can only hope that people are able to find ways to actually listen to us. mrs reding, i am very sorry that the epp group colleagues have not been able to apologize for what fidesz colleagues are doing to you in hungary. it is you in the commission who are trying to use the instruments at your disposal to deal with the breakdown of the rule of law. in return, you will be covered with dirt by so-called party friends in hungary. they're getting threatening letters. mr ferber, for example, from bavaria, is that acceptable to you? ladies and gentlemen, i know that these infringement procedures have so far been fruitless. this shows the commission's total helplessness, and it shows our helplessness. we shall vote on the report on hungary in july. we will then have to show with what majorities we want to arm the european union against the fact that in hungary, as in other countries, it is difficult to respect fundamental rights and the rule of law. we will need large majorities to get the council and the commission to deal with this problem differently. but i 'll tell you something else . many citizens, many constitutional lawyers, no longer understand why we have been talking a lot for two years about what is happening in hungary, but why we simply cannot decide what means we can use to deal with it. as obvious as the call for article 7 seems, it is actually like a nuclear bomb: you have it, but you cannot actually use it. (applause from the centre)
i'm not going to lie. i can't give you a minute to talk right now. i hear you. since you have been addressed by name, you may speak for three minutes at the end of the debate, in accordance with the rules of procedure. you don't have to be so tragic about it. you don't have to be a lawyer to be a legislator, and you don't have to have a law degree to work in this chamber. it's the same with human life. you don't have to be a bridge engineer to drive across a river and use a bridge, and not every medical professional understands every speech. that's the way it is. but since you have been addressed, you can use this rule at the end of the debate.
mr president, when i entered politics one of my biggest idols, hans-dietrich genscher, defined as one of the cornerstones of the european union respect for the right to sovereignty, especially for the small members of the european union. the eurogroup did not respect this small member state, cyprus, and its sovereignty, nor the cypriot economy and society. the eurogroup should stop putting in danger this fundamental value of the european union, namely respecting the sovereignty of the small. that is why we should respect cyprus in order to safeguard the european union.
- it is a great honour to welcome the president of the republic of ireland, mr higgins. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, mr higgins is speaking to us today. before i give him the floor, i have the greatest pleasure in welcoming to the podium the grand duke of luxembourg, guillaume, and his wife, stéphanie. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) i am also pleased that the president's wife, miss higgins, has taken her place in the gallery next to you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank you, mr president, for your wonderful speech. thank you very much, president, for your wonderful speech! i do not know, mr president, whether every member of this house agrees with you on every last detail of your speech. i doubt that. i can personally say that i listened with enthusiasm. i had the impression that not all my colleagues did the same. but i can tell you one thing: what a happy country ireland is with such a wonderful head of state! what a wonderful speech! thank you very much. you've given us a lot of courage. (applause from the centre)
mr president, an oral amendment to amendment no 3: we shall delete the word 'british'.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to make a statement on behalf of the socialist group on our voting behaviour on the discharge report for the commission, for which i was rapporteur. i am not going to go into detail. we have a problem with the discharge reports, namely that more and more groups and colleagues are using this discharge report to make things which are not strictly related to the financial behaviour of the commission the subject of this report. this is a methodological problem. it is also a political problem because it has forced us as a group to reject or abstain on this basis from proposals which we would otherwise have approved in substance. there have been amendments by the green group on the fight against tax evasion, there have been proposals by the left group on criticism of the policies of the troika, which we support in substance but which we are convinced have nothing to do, in the strict sense, with the discharge of the commission. that is the reason for the social democrats' voting behaviour on these questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have refrained from giving the discharge for the foreign service because that service has a lot of structural problems, because it has not yet been integrated and because i do not see that the construction sites that exist in that service are being worked on purposefully. in 2012, half a million eur was paid to employees retiring as compensation for holiday entitlements. instead of giving employees the opportunity to take a vacation, money was paid out. individual ambassadors received on average eur 35 000 in holiday pay for their pension. i think that's a bad idea. we have a lot of overlapping responsibilities and inadequate structures within the service. we have the smallest directorates-general of all the eu institutions. we have 36 eu delegations, 140 as a one-man operation. i think that is absolutely devastating! the delegations themselves, the eu ambassadors, are often overburdened with bureaucratic work, which the service does not help them with at all. i demand that the service stop these abuses!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge of the european commission and i welcome the commission's continuous efforts to manage and control eu funds over the past years. i was unable to agree with the discharge for the european environment agency and therefore expressly regret the final result of the vote on discharge for the agency. i would like to see greater care taken in the future in the budgetary management of the european environment agency and greater transparency in the procurement procedures, so that investigations by olaf will no longer be necessary.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, on behalf of the council it is a particular pleasure for me to address you today before you adopt what should be the very last parliamentary resolution on croatia in advance of its expected accession to the eu on 1 july. croatia held its first european parliament elections on sunday (14 april 2013) to elect the 12 meps who will represent its citizens in the european parliament for the 12 months leading up to the european elections in 2014. the process of ratifying the accession treaty for croatia is advancing extremely well, and we are confident that it will be completed on time. this will allow us very soon to conclude what has been a long journey, which started ten years ago. this process will finally see croatia take its right and proper place in the family of european peoples. croatia’s accession to the eu on 1 july, as well as the start of accession negotiations with montenegro and the granting of candidate status to serbia, are a strong testimony that, when conditions are met, the eu delivers on its commitments. this strengthens the process of reconciliation in the western balkans region. it demonstrates the positive and stabilising effect of enlargement to the benefit of both the eu and the region as a whole. we fully support the view, as expressed in your resolution due to be adopted tomorrow, that croatia’s accession process testifies to the credibility of the eu’s enlargement policy and its hugely transformative effects. the assistance and monitoring undertaken by the commission has been a key part of this process. the council has reiterated the importance it attaches to close monitoring of croatia’s fulfilment of all the commitments it has undertaken in the accession negotiations, including those which must be fulfilled before accession. the final monitoring report on croatia presented by the commission last month has confirmed that croatia is generally meeting the commitments and requirements arising from the accession negotiations in all chapters. substantial results have been achieved in a number of areas where action was required and which the council highlighted in its conclusions last december. these relate in particular to the areas of competition policy, judiciary and fundamental rights, and justice, freedom and security. but significant progress has also been achieved in meeting other important commitments, and i commend croatia for all that it has achieved over recent months. this means that – as you recognise in your resolution – croatia is on track to meeting the outstanding requirements for membership. the commission has concluded that croatia will be in a position to take on the rights and obligations of eu membership on 1 july 2013, and the general affairs council is due to adopt conclusions on this latest commission monitoring report and its recommendations next week. i would also underline that croatia, the council and the commission are currently working on comprehensive technical adaptations to the eu acquis to take account of the croatian accession. this is an important but time-consuming task – vital if the eu is to be completely ready in time. before concluding, i would also like to recall croatia’s commitment to ensuring that bilateral issues do not obstruct the accession process of candidate countries. croatia is expected to continue to play an active role in regional cooperation. given the importance of good neighbourly relations and the need to implement legally-binding international agreements, the council encourages croatia to continue to address all outstanding bilateral and regional issues, including succession issues, building on the very significant progress that has been achieved so far. we particularly welcome croatia’s and slovenia’s decision to sign a memorandum of understanding aimed at finding a solution to the ljubljanska banka issue. further efforts are also needed to tackle impunity for war crimes through the impartial handling of outstanding cases and through continued full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. madam president, i would like to close by expressing our gratitude to this parliament, and in particular your rapporteur, libor rouček, and the previous rapporteur, hannes swoboda, for their contribution to the efforts to take forward croatia’s accession process. cooperation between this parliament and the council has been very good, and together i think we have helped ensure that croatia can take its rightful place as the 28th member state of the european union. i believe that is an achievement that we can all be very proud of and very pleased with. thank you for your attention. i look forward to hearing the contributions of members.
member of the commission. − madam president, minister, honourable members, it is a great honour for me to participate in today’s debate on croatia. i also welcome your support for the commission’s work on croatia, as confirmed by the report we will be debating here today. i would like to express my warm gratitude to the rapporteur, mr libor rouček, for his draft resolution. the resolution acknowledges croatia’s progress to date and calls on the country to continue its efforts. this also reflects the conclusions of our recent spring monitoring report, which was adopted on 26 march. croatia is generally meeting the commitments and requirements arising from the accession negotiations in all chapters. it has demonstrated its ability to fulfil all other commitments in good time before accession. the focus of the last monitoring report, as underlined by the minister, is in accordance with the accession treaty on competition; judiciary and fundamental rights; and justice, freedom and security. at the same time we are looking in particular at the priority actions from the october comprehensive monitoring report, and i am pleased to note that all of them have been completed. let me give you just some examples. the privatisation contract for the brodosplit shipyard was signed; measures were implemented to increase the efficiency of the judiciary; and the conflict of interest commission was established and started its work. the commission is therefore confident that croatia will be ready for membership on 1 july 2013. croatia’s active observer status will come to an end, and the work to turn membership into a success will start. croatia arrives at a moment when the european union is experiencing its most serious economic and financial crisis. many decisions have been taken to overcome the crisis over the last few years, and croatia can now provide its contribution to resolving it. european union membership presents many challenges but also creates many opportunities. the structural funds and participation in the internal market offer important opportunities to get the croatian economy out of its current recession. croatia will also set itself the objective of achieving two new strategy goals: joining schengen and adopting the euro. for the latter, croatia will need to enhance the competitiveness of its economy, continuing the structural reforms it has started. as you can see, our report reflects to a great extent the issues you raised in your resolution. i look forward to its adoption by the plenary and i also look forward to welcoming croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. croatia is a deeply european country, central european and mediterranean at the same time, with roots in antiquity and the middle ages. it is also a very modern european country, which has prepared more intensively than any other candidate country for membership of the european union. in view of this, it is a little strange that we are discussing the accession of croatia again today and voting tomorrow, because this debate is actually moutarde après le dîner. i am grateful to mr libor rouček not only for the excellent way in which he has prepared this report, but also for the fact that in the first paragraph of my proposal we pointed out that croatia had actually received a legally binding 'yes' to its accession from us on 1 december 2011. it was only then that it could hold the referendum, it was only then that the ratification process in the 27 member states could begin, which is now almost complete, and it was only then that it was possible to prepare for the european elections, which thank god took place last sunday. i find it very problematic that colleagues in some national parliaments - and unfortunately in my own member state too - are suddenly starting to act at the last minute as if the accession of croatia were a completely new and completely open question. we have clearly said yes to croatia because croatia had already met the conditions at that time. there was a discussion in the council at the time about whether to go ahead with accession in 2012 and then carry out some kind of monitoring after accession - that's what some people have advocated - or whether to postpone accession until 2013 but then do things before then. croatia has done so in an impressive and clear manner in the ten outstanding areas for improvement, as the commission makes clear in its report. i feel that it is all the more problematic when there are now calls for monitoring to be added. we renew our 'yes' to croatia and look forward to this member state on 1 july!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to ask mrs cornelissen whether there is a paradise on earth somewhere outside bavaria.
i have to say, madam president, and above all, ladies and gentlemen from croatia, who are already here in the european parliament! for croatia, it is almost a fancy word: comparing the accession negotiations to a marathon and that the last few metres of the marathon, the last months of the negotiations, are the hardest. croatia - it has been said - is the country that has done the most to prepare for the eu. and i could imagine that these last long and hard months will have the good consequence that many eu procedures and many eu rules are already known to croats, perhaps more than many countries that are already in the eu. as a liberal, i am particularly pleased about the accession of croatia, after all hans-dietrich genscher was and is one of croatia's friends from the beginning. germany has yet to agree to membership. i hope it remains a formality, and that is why i end with dobro došli!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european parliament wants to send a two-part message to turkey again this year. on the one hand, support for the reform process in turkey, but on the other hand, calls for more reforms, for faster and better progress. it is time for turkey to show unequivocally that it is really interested in further reforms. it 's remarkable . both you, commissioner, and you, madam minister, say that there is some progress, an ombudsman here and there, and we are making progress on visa issues. but after the 'aber' comes the very fundamental questions: fundamental rights, fundamental freedoms, freedom of opinion, freedom of speech - these are really crucial points. i'm glad that was clear. ankara needs to hear this message. i can only repeat that a country that is negotiating to join cannot be a country that is ranked 158 out of 179 countries tested by reporters without borders, which is, in the words of reporters without borders, the largest prison for journalists in the world. i hope that the fourth judicial reform package will be able to address some of the problems here. we have had a miscarriage of justice, as in the case of pınar selek, we have a miscarriage of justice in the case of fazıl say. we need to send clear and unequivocal signals to turkey that we will not tolerate this in the enlargement process. i also regret that the council of europe and the venice commission have not been able to be more closely involved in the constitutional process. the way in which the venice commission has been invited to speak is particularly thought provoking. the council of europe is not a foreign power that wants to interfere in turkey, the council of europe is one of the institutions in europe that fights for democracy and human rights, which is incredibly competent. so what happened there is not nice. on the other hand, we still have to see the opportunities. the turkish-kurdish relations, the imrali process, the statements made by abdullah öcalan, the constructive role played by the bdp, all this is very welcome. this is a really crucial moment. i very much hope that on this occasion it will be possible to resolve once and for all the questions of citizenship, the anti-terrorism laws and other fundamental questions of the cultural self-determination of the kurds. this people deserves it, turkey deserves it. i think that turkey is at a crucial point, that now is the time for turkey to credibly push forward its reforms, to credibly continue its european course. the positive agenda and the accession process can then move forward again.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. turkey is undoubtedly a key partner of the european union with whom we share mutual strategic interests. i think it is right that we should continue to make progress with turkey, which makes it clear that turkey is on the european and transatlantic side. it is only necessary to look at the map to know that it is in the european interest, as well as in the interest of turkey, to safeguard and extend its development in the long term, and not just in the economic field, where it has been successful. but i also think that turkey can be an anchor of stability and a model in the region, and i am pleased that relations between israel and turkey seem to be improving again. this should be encouraged in order to provide anchors of stability. we must also say that there are a number of areas where there is a great deal of common interest - for example in the case of energy and energy transport for both turkey and the european union - and that perhaps we should also concentrate on negotiations in those areas which have to do with the relevant packages. whether membership ends up in the end or not, it is the right thing to do to reach agreement in these areas. the report, commissioner, speaks of progress in the area of the legal system, freedom of expression and religion, minorities and similar issues, but at the same time it is always clear in a second sentence that the breakthrough in these areas has not yet been achieved. and this is the crucial point, namely that on the issues of freedom of expression and religion - the case of the pianist was mentioned here - the legal system, minorities and on the commitments made, for example, regarding the ankara protocol and similar issues, nothing has been done. i would therefore encourage you, commissioner, to press on with these issues, but on the other hand turkey must also know that there are conditions which cannot be met if progress is to be made in the negotiations on membership of the european union. i hope that this is understood!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank ria oomen-ruijten once again for this report. it shows once again the important role turkey plays for the european union, not only economically as one of the largest trading partners, but also politically as a link between the regions of central asia, arabia and africa. in recent years turkey has made progress in many areas which should be highlighted. one of them is judicial reform. she's going in the right direction. nevertheless, alexander lambsdorff made it very clear earlier that there is still a lot to catch up on. the european union should be a mentor to it, in its own interest. i therefore not only support the opening of negotiations on justice as soon as possible, but we must also look together for other areas where new progress can be made. i would like to mention the negotiations on the energy capital as an example. turkey is a promising alternative to russia for the eu. i think that many people are not yet aware of the importance of cooperation between the european union and turkey in the energy sector in the future. i believe that one of the biggest obstacles in our common relations with turkey is the visa issue. i think it is contrary to the spirit of the customs union that businessmen, but also scientists or students, still have to apply for visas every time they want to travel to the european union. in conclusion, perhaps, i would like to make one final request: turkey should be treated fairly, like other candidates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. since the end of 2012, we have been following a historic peace process between the turkish government and the pkk guerrillas, represented mainly by abdullah öcalan. the chances are now greater than ever that a conflict that has drawn blood for over 30 years and claimed thousands of lives on both sides will soon come to an end. the turkish state has tried for too long to solve the kurdish question by violence and counter-violence. it is good that both sides in the conflict have now begun to rethink their position. in his appeal for the kurdish new year, abdullah öcalan declared that it is time to end the armed struggle, that the hour of unity and reconciliation has now struck. europe should leave no doubt that it fully and unreservedly supports this peace process. europe should encourage the turkish government to learn from the experience of successful peace processes and to use external mediation where it is helpful. but at the same time we continue to refer to the pkk as a terrorist organisation in the turkey report. i wonder whether this is helpful in the present peace phase and whether it would not be sensible for us as a parliament to also disarm verbally at this point and thus support the process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her report, which is once again very good. i really know how difficult it is to do this job. the text of the resolution is good on the whole, but i do not agree with some of its contents. the opening of five or six negotiating chapters - one amendment calls for another - i thought was totally inappropriate in view of the situation in turkey and also in view of turkey's attitude towards the european union. we have been criticizing the stagnation of reform for years. the european union is also taking action to combat the spread of the virus. so it's actually a retrospective report! at the same time, turkey is showing us that it does not recognise the eu as a whole and in its integrity. the recent highlight of this policy of confrontation was turkey's refusal to accept the cypriot presidency. the republic of cyprus does not exist for turkey. the european union has 26 member states for turkey. this is unacceptable! the continuing delay in ratifying the readmission agreement, with ever new additional demands on the european union, is an attempt to put pressure on us by introducing mass illegal immigration through turkish territory and to force visa liberalization. yes, turkey is an important partner of the european union. i am also in favour of this, in economic terms, in foreign policy terms and in security policy terms. but as long as the country does not meet the political copenhagen criteria, as long as this country continues to develop dramatically, the negotiation of chapters 23, 24 rule of law, justice, home affairs, fundamental rights will be of no avail at all. at most, we'd be dealing with a new paper tiger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. experience shows that. i am not prepared to sell my european soul for any natural gas supplies via any nabucco.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not understand mr zahradil's sympathy for regional powers. the czech people in particular have had bad experiences with regional powers. that is why the idea of federalism was born, a federalism which makes the small ones a little bigger and the big ones a little smaller. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i think that is why i say yes to the partnership and close cooperation with turkey. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is excellent and balanced. but i also want to be clear: opening chapters aimed at accession and not just partnership is counterproductive and a mistake. unfortunately, turkey is also trying to play the role of regional power, especially in the balkans, where it is even going so far as to try to rewrite the history books in countries such as kosovo or albania or bosnia. skanderbeg must suddenly be a traitor, the turkish era must be a time of paradisiacal cooperation and must not be an occupation. it is aggressively intervening in the internal affairs of the balkan countries through its foreign ministers and ambassadors. i am very clear that we do not accept such a neo-ottoman foreign policy, especially in the field of culture and education. turkey is an important partner for europe, but neither a member nor a regional power!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by mr kacin is a welcome sign of progress in serbia. the fight against corruption has finally begun with astonishing commitment. i hope that commitment does not weaken. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. serbia has fairly good neighbourly relations with most of its neighbours, which are unfortunately very often endangered at the moment by rash, but perhaps also deliberate, statements by the president of serbia. unfortunately, relations with kosovo are not yet such that we can speak of good neighbourly relations. the rejection of the outcome of the dialogue by serbia a few weeks ago was a setback. but the door was obviously not slammed. we see that today is again talking. i'm just warning my colleagues not to get too excited. the political constellation of the serbian government today - and i agree with what the commissioner has said - is probably the first and best way of finding normality in the relations between kosovo and serbia. we must improve the living conditions of all the citizens of kosovo. we all do. we must also dry up the crime hotspot in northern kosovo. this cannot be a territorial claim. the apartheid regime in the 1990s and the attempts by milošević to drive out the albanians have lost that. that is why the martti ahtisaari plan was and is the best basis for a lasting solution to the neighbourhood problem between serbia and kosovo.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have taken good note of your wish to see serbia move rapidly to the next step – the opening of accession negotiations – provided conditions are fulfilled. i can only add that i fully subscribe to this objective. the upcoming joint report from the commission and the high representative on serbia concentrates on three main issues. the first will be the results of the belgrade-pristina dialogue, which is still going on, and the implementation of agreements reached so far between serbia and kosovo. the second is significant developments in reforms in areas such as the rule of law, particularly the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, respect for the independence of key institutions and media freedom. the third is anti-discrimination and inclusion of vulnerable groups, protection of minorities – where a number of your points, including ms cornelissen’s question, will be addressed – and the business environment. and point three, serbia’s contribution to regional cooperation and improved relations with its neighbours. the report will dwell on important recent developments in serbia. i am also hopeful that serbia will remain committed to reforms and that further positive progress can be expected in the coming crucial period, which would allow the council to draw a positive conclusion. let me end by thanking you again for your clear support for serbia’s european agenda.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members and commissioner, i would like to acknowledge and, indeed, to welcome, on behalf of the irish presidency and the member states, the parliament’s diligent work, and in particular your rapporteur mr kacin’s continuous engagement and very positive contribution to the efforts to advance the enlargement policy of the eu. the significance of your work, and in particular of maintaining the support of eu citizens – as i said earlier in the previous debate – for further enlargement, is extremely important. i can assure you that we very much appreciate the views of the european parliament in this respect. the council, as you know, has regularly reaffirmed its unequivocal commitment to the european perspective for all of the western balkan countries. in the particular case of serbia, i am absolutely convinced – as the commissioner has said – that the normalisation of its relations with kosovo will have a tremendous positive impact on serbia, kosovo and indeed the wider region. it is fair to say, having listened to the debate here, that this view is very much reflected in the european parliament. it may well, and i certainly hope that this is the case, serve as an example to neighbours that the process – not the positions – is crucial when you endeavour to settle long-standing disputes. i think, speaking from the irish perspective, that we have a pretty long and well-established experience of that. i am aware of a range of challenges that have been set out by members here. ms pack mentioned the need for a reliable, inscrutable judiciary; ms fajon mentioned the whole question of freedom of expression and freedom of the press; and a number of you have mentioned the protection of minorities and a range of other issues. i think it is important to say that all of these are very much at the core of the process which is underway. we will continue to ensure that there is continuous and sustainable progress on all of these issues throughout the process. but i think it is always important to go back. when i participate in debates on enlargement and european integration, or indeed any debates on european integration, it is usually in the context of conflicts that happened long before i was even born – in fact, usually quite a few decades before i was born. therefore, i think that it is important to remember the remarkable fact – as mr tannock pointed out at the beginning of this discussion – that just 14 short years ago, the nato campaign began in belgrade. it is very recent; it is very raw; and i think that we have to always reflect on the enormous strides that have been made in such a short period of time. it is really extraordinary, and to me proves the absolute value – the transformative value – of the eu enlargement process. i think that this is something that we can all be very proud of and something that is very much worth defending.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, having just had the opportunity to exchange views on the situation in serbia, obviously with quite a lot of reference already to the situation in kosovo, i would now like to fully turn my attention to kosovo. as you are well aware, the council took note in december 2012 of the feasibility study for a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and kosovo. this was without prejudice to member states’ individual positions on status. the council also noted that the commission will propose negotiating directives for an saa once kosovo meets the short-term priorities concerning the rule of law, public administration, protection of minorities and trade, which are identified in the feasibility study. this would be a very important step in the eu’s relations with kosovo, and a step among several initiatives. the structured dialogue on the rule of law, the visa liberalisation dialogue and the stabilisation and association dialogue all play an important role in guiding kosovo’s reform efforts towards further progress on the eu path. let me also stress the importance of continued cooperation with eulex and the work of the eulex special investigative task force. we believe that kosovo has made progress on the eu agenda and the eu has set out an ambitious agenda for 2013. it is now particularly important for kosovo to accelerate the pace of reforms. major efforts are needed to strengthen public administration reform and consolidate rule of law, namely by providing evidence of the fight against organised crime and corruption, judicial reform and freedom of expression. we stand ready to assist the economic and political development of kosovo through a clear european perspective, in line with the european perspective of the region. there should be irreversible progress towards delivering structures in northern kosovo which meet the security and justice needs of the local population in a transparent and cooperative manner, and in a way that ensures the functionality of a single institutional and administrative set-up within kosovo, respecting the particular needs of the local population. it is essential that kosovo further develops an outreach plan for northern kosovo. the joint report of the commission and the high representative on progress in the areas outlined in the council conclusions of december last year will be presented in the coming days. these have been delayed, as you know, to allow for further progress in the belgrade-pristina dialogue, which is meeting again today. as i said in relation to serbia, we recognise and genuinely commend the political courage and consistent efforts shown by both prime ministers. i would also again like to reiterate my thanks to high representative catherine ashton for her engagement as facilitator in this very difficult process. i encourage kosovo to continue to engage in the ongoing efforts to reach a mutually agreeable solution on the proposal for an association of serbian municipalities in kosovo. agreement on this issue will hopefully lead to a possible decision to open negotiations for an saa with kosovo. solid and continued efforts by kosovo will further pave the way in the months ahead. let me underline that we support kosovo’s european perspective and we really do want both serbia and kosovo to continue on their respective european paths. a visible and sustainable improvement in relations between them would avoid that possible road-block, which we do not wish to see frustrating our efforts.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms ulrike lunacek, parliament’s committee on foreign affairs and this parliament as a whole for your continuing support for our efforts to move kosovo’s european union perspective forward. as you know, 2013 is a crucial year for european union-kosovo relations. in response to the december council conclusions, the commission has foreseen to adopt yesterday joint reports of the high representative and the commission on serbia and kosovo, and a commission proposal for negotiating directives for a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. both the report on kosovo’s progress on the short-term priorities and the draft directives were discussed at yesterday’s commission meeting but not adopted, since a further meeting of the european union facilitated dialogue was announced by the high representative for today. we are confident that this dialogue at prime ministerial level will result in a clear agreement. i continue to be so, despite the conflicting messages i am receiving. let me repeat what i said in my previous speech on serbia. this is in the strategic interests of both serbia and kosovo, of the western balkans as a whole, and of the european union itself. it is time for serbia and kosovo to move on from the past and look ahead to a common european future. we hope the two leaderships will seize the historic opportunity that lies before them – in the very best interests of their citizens. the commission will then revert to the issue and ensure that a positive outcome of the dialogue is reflected in the final version of both the report for kosovo and that for serbia, which will be rapidly adopted. i would like to publicly commend prime minister thaçi and prime minister dačić for their efforts in the dialogue. the issues involved are complex and highly sensitive. the results of the dialogue are critically important for european union relations with both kosovo and serbia. they should encourage our member states to decide to open negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo, and accession negotiations with serbia. we will shortly submit our recommendation to the council to agree to and sign a framework agreement with kosovo allowing it to participate in european union programmes, thus fulfilling a key wish of this house. both agreements will eventually be submitted to this parliament and i look forward to its consent.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not kosovo has been independent for over five years now and has undertaken a huge reform effort. but i must say that in many respects we in the european union have not made much progress. so we should be self-critical. it begins with the following: we have a feasibility study on an association and stabilisation agreement. yeah, but if it's doable, why don't we do it? the second point is trade agreements. kosovo urgently needs a trade agreement, the building of trade capacity. why don't we do it? five member states failed to take the step of recognising kosovo five years ago, which was their right, but which has damaged our capacity to act in kosovo and also the cohesion of the european union. i call on those member states to finally take the step of recognising kosovo. the same applies to the visa regime. nato has fought to keep the kosovar people from being displaced, from being genocided, from being imprisoned any longer. the people of kosovo were actively liberated by europeans, and today we are locking them behind a wall, behind a wall of visa regulations. we see that we europeans can and must do a great deal to help this youngest country in europe, this young democracy, to move forward. the young generation in this country in particular is full of ideas and initiatives, but they are struggling with unspeakable unemployment. i therefore believe that we as europeans should take this opportunity to bring our fellow europeans in kosovo finally to us. i am very grateful that serbia is taking steps here. the european union is taking steps which are also in serbia's own interest. many serbs are fully aware that it is not in their interest to mourn some medieval vision of kosovo, but to live in peace with their neighbour and to build a europe in the south-east based on reconciliation and understanding. i would like to thank mrs lunacek for her excellent report. he has the full support of our group.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr batten, i wonder if you are aware that in strasbourg, in the foreign affairs committee, we asked mr marty of the council of europe if he had any evidence to support the thesis on organ trafficking, and he was unable to produce any. we must investigate further, as the report calls for, but there is not a single piece of evidence presented. do you know that?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can repeat what i said earlier, and i think the same should be said about kosovo. the rejection of dialogue by serbia in the last 14 days was unexpected. we all hope that today will turn out better. i dare to have a little doubt. we must ensure that the living conditions of all the inhabitants of kosovo are improved, and we must also ensure that the crime hotspot in the north is drained. i repeat: the comparisons made here are both wrong and misleading. it is not appropriate for someone from catalonia to compare himself with kosovo. anyone who was in kosovo in the 1990s knows what an apartheid regime is. and why is nato intervening? because hundreds of thousands of albanians were expelled and for no other reason! this has not happened in catalonia, or anywhere in romania, or in slovakia. in this respect, the reasons for some governments' disapproval of independence are elusive. but if i listen to mrs miranda, i can even sympathize with the spanish government. i would nevertheless appeal to mrs ashton to finally do what we asked her to do when she took up this post: to persuade these five countries with vehemence that they will help us to move kosovo forward and to get serbia to at least accept it and have good neighbourly relations. eulex has its limits. i agree with everything that is in it, but i appeal to the kosovars that the kosovar government should implement everything that it has written into its constitution with the martti-ahtisaari plan, so that what is possible in the south for the serbs can also be considered an example for the north. the north can only accept this if it sees that the martti ahtisaari plan with its possibilities for self-determination for the serbs in many areas is actually implemented in the south. i still hope that something will come out of brussels today, because i read an interview with the prime minister of serbia, mr dacic, in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung last week, which surprised me and gave me hope. i hope that something will come out this evening or tomorrow, so that we can really give the serbs a date, but also shed some light on the kosovo albanians, that the visa regime will be tackled in a somewhat orderly way and that a stabilisation and association process will be started.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that a look at the developments in the western balkans over the last 10 to 15 years clearly shows the successes of european enlargement policy. croatia becomes an eu member just 18 years after the end of the war, and the talks between belgrade and pristina are bearing fruit, although there are occasional setbacks. nevertheless, serbia is now officially a candidate country. the european union must now also provide kosovo with an incentive for reform, despite the unresolved status issue. the positive outcome of the feasibility study on the stabilisation and association agreement is therefore timely. and reforms in the judiciary and administration have led to a better legal framework. you have to attest to that. but it is still a long way from being implemented. the resolution therefore rightly calls for more and better support from eulex, but kosovo must also strengthen its cooperation with eulex. i think that's the way to go. and the european union should try to support all this in a positive way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not in a position to give you a clear answer to this question. we are dealing with an interinstitutional problem here. it is a very important matter for the fishermen and for the marine environment. the ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy to end overfishing and discards must be implemented through multiannual plans. i hope that the reform will be brought to fruition under the irish presidency. i'll do my best to help you. we must start implementing it immediately afterwards through multiannual plans. so we need a solution now. i appeal to the council's reason. please respect the lisbon treaty! i would also like to appeal to the commission, which is the guardian of the treaties. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: help us get out of this dead end! i ask the council not to force us to go to the european court of justice. the fishermen are waiting for a decision. you have no understanding of this senseless quarrel. they want a solution, and we have to deliver it together and immediately!
member of the commission. − (on behalf of catherine ashton (vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy)) madam president, the european union is stepping up its contribution to arctic cooperation. i am therefore pleased to speak to parliament today on behalf of vice-president/high representative ashton about the european union’s arctic policy following the adoption of the joint communication of the commission and the vice-president/high representative last june. progress has been substantial. over the last decade, we have become the largest sponsor of arctic research, with contributions of eur 20 million per year. additionally, as part of its regional and cross-border funding, the european union has put over eur 1 billion into economic development from greenland to russia. add member states’ bilateral contributions to that and the figure rises to almost eur 2 billion. the next steps we plan will make the european union’s contribution to arctic cooperation even more meaningful. our policy focuses on three key components: knowledge, responsibility and engagement. starting with knowledge: the european union’s new horizon 2020 programme will establish closer links with researchers from third countries. we are also exploring the feasibility of creating a european arctic information centre. turning to responsibility: we want to work with our arctic partners and with the private sector to develop environmentally-friendly, low-risk technologies that could be used by the extractive industries and the shipping industry. and finally, on engagement: we are stepping up our dialogue with all arctic states and stakeholders. the commission will continue to engage with arctic indigenous groups to find ways to work together in a number of practical areas. we will organise an arctic indigenous dialogue meeting in the coming months. an important decision on the european union’s application for observer status is to be made next month by the eight arctic states that form the arctic council – in our view, the key international forum on arctic questions. we trust that the arctic council members will come to a fair decision, recognising in particular the significant contribution the european union can bring to the work of the council. i am therefore thankful for this parliament’s cross-party support for the application. let me conclude by saying that whatever we do, there is one thing we must do for the arctic, and that is work with our international partners to address climate change and to limit global temperature increases to less than 2°c. i look forward now to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as rapporteur for the arctic report, commissioner, i thank you for your comments, and in particular for the work of the commission and the eeas in the form of the communication of summer 2012, which gives a good overview of the eu's past engagement and priorities of european interest. i welcome the fact that in this communication you take up the holistic and real-political approach of my report and that in some places in the communication you give more specific details of how the eu is already involved in the arctic. we are not having this debate today by chance, but in the context of the arctic council ministerial meeting on 15 may, where, among other things, the eu's request to be admitted as a permanent observer, as well as that of other actors, is being discussed. i would like to express the support of the whole house, i think, but also of my group, the epp. but in the light of the dramatic increase in political and economic interest in the arctic over the last two years, i would also like to point out that it is not enough to maintain the commitment we have had, we must develop it further. we must also take concrete steps, particularly in areas of european importance, such as safe and sustainable access to natural resources and the development of shipping routes. permanent observer status in the arctic council would be a good move. but even more important is our ongoing and concrete involvement, whether in the working groups of the arctic council, the imo or other international bodies. i expect the commission to proactively develop and coordinate an arctic policy, particularly in those areas where europe can make a positive contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic through its programmes, research, investment and market partnership. examples such as norway show that a balance between different interests, between sustainable development and nature protection, is possible. but we need a broader communication of what we have to offer as the eu. we have heard the same from well-meaning partners in the north. it is a good thing, and i congratulate you, commissioner, that we have recently opened an arctic dialogue on energy issues with iceland. but yesterday, when icelandic president grímsson announced the establishment of the arctic circle as an open tent where everyone is welcome, he specifically referred to asian nations such as china, india and singapore. but he did not mention the eu. i know that this president is not a fan of eu membership, but when people like him or russians or canadians or others are professionally communicated what the whole attractive toolbox of the eu's arctic cooperation potential looks like, then we are also an attractive bride who is gladly invited for permanent observation and active cooperation. so this should be an opportunity for us to use all the means at our disposal - not only official, diplomatic channels, but also the means of think tanks, networks and associations - to make our contribution as europeans more clear and focused. the commission and the edf are required. we in parliament support this.
blue-card question. – first of all, would you accept that the population that lives there also has a right to development? secondly, please note that it was not some ugly capitalist, but a communist chinese icebreaker that was the first to break through the north pole and open up this route. this shows that it is not about capitalism, but apparently about the chinese communists who want to conquer this area in such a way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european citizens' initiative is a great offer to the citizens of europe. we have said that this europe is not the europe of institutions, of governments, but it is also, and above all, the europe of citizens. it is our europe, it is your europe. please get involved, make suggestions, and state your concerns! that was the great offer of the european citizens' initiative. i am still proud that we succeeded and i would like to congratulate all those who took part. i would also like to remind you that this instrument of the european citizens' initiative is the result of an initiative by citizens themselves. it was the german 'mehr demokratie', it was 'eurotopia', it was 'democracy international', it was the 'initiative and referendum institute europe' who jointly conceived and then proposed this instrument. it was committed members of the convention who took it up and enforced it. later we parliament, commission and council worked together to draft the regulation. it was a compromise. all those involved remember these long debates. today we must say that this great promise to the citizens of europe has been fulfilled only in part. it is up to us whether we succeed in fulfilling it fully or whether it remains a half-fulfilled promise. it is clear that when you create the first transnational instrument of citizen participation, you are entering new territory. the eci is like a child trying to walk for the first time. but in these first attempts at walking, we have to realize that it can't really start off as strongly as it is now. it's got a bunch of lumps on its legs. i want these blocks to be eliminated, all of them, one by one! the first is that most european citizens are unaware of the existence of this instrument. before the treaty came into force, i suggested to presidents schulz, barroso and van rompuy that they should come together before the citizens of europe and say: 'now a new era is beginning! we want to hear your ideas, your suggestions! we do not want to be a europe that only speaks and decides from the top down! we want to be a listening europe that listens to its citizens! so, make suggestions, use this! it's still not too late. we are in the year of the european citizen. it would be very useful if the commission were to use its powers and if the three institutions - the council, the commission and parliament - were to come together to promote this instrument and say in the year of citizens: we need you, dear citizens, to build a common europe, we need your proposals, please take part! the commission finances so many campaigns, including the european elections, although i am convinced that citizens know that elections are elections - from the election posters, from the media coverage, and from the fact that they are informed by the electoral authorities. the eci should really be advertised. the next is the many technical difficulties. the online software has never been tested before. it didn't work. for months, the initiatives have been unable to gather signatures, and have lost valuable time. it is now working, but only with an ad hoc solution for a limited number of initiatives and also for a limited time. this can't go on! we need a single solution, a european platform where everyone can put forward their initiatives, where all citizens can follow this, and a platform that is completely free of cost and easy for citizens to use. in addition, many problems with online software are not due to the software but to the complexity of the regulation itself and the different requirements that member states impose on certification and signatures. why can't we finally standardize this and make it the way that signatures are collected in almost all countries, with name, address, signature? we can reform this in less than three years, anytime! parliament is open to it!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have signed the oral question because i think the questions it asks are very correct. this is what the debate today shows. the shortcomings identified must be remedied in the short term, even if the written review of the citizens' initiative is not yet formally due. the central theme of the review is already clear: the high bureaucratic barriers have been greatly reduced and the instrument itself made much more flexible. the instrument is called citizens' initiatives. and it was not thought that it needed a big, resourceful ngo to even go to the commission or even to parliament with concerns. that's not how our societies work. so we're emptying our own approaches to collaboration, participation, inclusion and so on. we, as the european parliament, must also make our contribution. why should we not be able to link the citizens' initiative closely with our own work? successful initiatives have the certified opportunity of being heard by the european parliament. i would like to see unsuccessful initiatives treated as petitions. the instrument of petitioning is being used successfully. why not for this? the debate so far has shown that the citizens' initiative is still a very bureaucratic, rigid instrument. this has to stop! a concrete example: the right2water citizens' initiative is still running, and its initiators are opposing the privatisation of water in europe. it has already received more than 1 million signatures and achieved a quorum in five member states. one country which has not yet reached the quorum is italy. but there was a successful collection of over 1.4 million signatures on it two years ago. we should take up this and, so to speak, reorganise it together, perhaps in the spirit of the citizens' initiative.
mr gollnisch, i am coming to a different conclusion. mr swoboda, who was opposed, has indicated a compromise which the applicant has followed. we had someone who spoke for it, too. that is why the rules of procedure have been satisfied. we've decided that too.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission naturally accepts parliament's wishes. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before i move on to the amendment, i should like to say a very brief word of thanks to the services which have organised the enlargement debate in a really excellent way this year. each country was discussed separately. this is the respect we should show to these countries, and also to the colleagues who are concerned about their countries. the oral amendment: in paragraph 53 of our text we have a word to say to the pkk about the continuing terrorist violence. but the fact is that in paragraph 36 of the text we rightly refer to the peace process which is taking place between the turkish government and the kurds. mr öcalan has called for the laying down of arms. the amendment is therefore as follows: we'll delete the word continuing and write committed. the text then reads: 'reiterates its condemnation, in the strongest terms, of the terrorist violence committed by the pkk' and then continues as before. then the text as a whole becomes coherently correct.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is confusing. i think that you must vote separately on the oral amendment and then the split vote will take place. i assume that the majority of the house has now voted wrongly on this instruction you have given. i therefore think that the oral amendment must first be put to the vote or at least you must indicate that it has been adopted, if there is no objection. and then there's the split vote for part one and part two. i would therefore ask you to vote again very clearly on the first part and then on the second part of the split vote so that we can vote properly.
i have to say, mrs sommer! there was no objection to the oral amendment. it was therefore included in the first part of the vote. this part was adopted by an overwhelming majority. that is why i now come to the second part of the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was definitely a misunderstanding. i would ask that this first part be put to the vote again. after all, it says that the pkk is no longer a terrorist group, and it is despite all the negotiations with öcalan. i would therefore ask you to give us the opportunity to vote again on this first part in a proper way. (applause from the centre)
proposal for a council regulation (eec) amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal (com (91) 0173 - c4-0314/91) i shall give the floor to the rapporteur for a moment to clarify if necessary.
so we're going to check number 53, part one, electronically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. visa facilitation agreement, that is correct. you can't just say travel is education. travel also builds trust. in this respect it is also good that people can communicate with one another by travelling. in this sense it is also conducive to the development of democracy. and it is also true that some of the imbalances in the text have been eliminated. on the other hand, i also had some serious concerns. i always find it very difficult: even with the visa requirement, we already have the problem that we know quite well who is entering our country, but we never know exactly whether this person or people leave this country on time and for what reasons. there is still a lot of room for improvement. that is why i abstained from voting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, i am also happy for croatia that it can now join the european union. that's right, you're right. on the other hand, i also ask for mutual understanding, that we learn from the mistakes of the past. what do i mean? what mistakes have we made? in most cases, when countries have managed to join and have been justifiably proud of having met almost all the conditions, they have been more likely to relax in meeting the conditions - like a long-distance runner who has made it and rests after the long-distance run. i simply ask croatia not to relax in its efforts to meet the remaining requirements and to complete the task and action plan accordingly. i have to say that i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - we abstained in the vote on the comprehensive monitoring report on croatia. we continue to express our support for croatia's early membership of the eu. the citizens of croatia have high expectations of membership. however, these can only be met if croatia is truly ready for accession and all the accession criteria are met. we are aware that croatia is now further along in the accession process than many current eu member states were at the time of accession. however, doubts remain as to the durability and irreversibility of the improvements achieved in relation to some of the complaints still raised by the commission in its 2011 progress report. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2000-06. in the present situation, we believe that this is politically and economically impossible. for us, accuracy is more important than speed and reliable execution is more important than promises. this is not in the interests of the eu or croatia and its people. old mistakes must not be repeated. that is why we abstained today.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make use of the resources available to it. we continue to express our support for croatia's early membership of the eu. the citizens of croatia have high expectations of membership. however, these can only be met if croatia is truly ready for accession and all the accession criteria are met. we are aware that croatia is now further along in the accession process than many current eu member states were at the time of accession. however, doubts are raised as to the durability and irreversibility of the improvements achieved in relation to some of the complaints made by the commission in the 2011 progress report. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2000-06. in the present situation, we believe that this is politically and economically impossible. for us, accuracy is more important than speed and reliable execution is more important than promises. this is not in the interests of the eu or croatia and its citizens. old mistakes must not be repeated. that is why we abstained today.
in writing. - the european union is facing its worst crisis since its founding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if the house is in danger of collapse, you can't keep inviting new residents, but you have to secure the building. the current motto must therefore be 'consolidation before enlargement'. i would also like to make it clear that my criticism is directed at the hasty process of enlargement of the european union in general and not against croatia as a country. it is no longer possible to explain to the people of europe, and also to those in my home region of saxony, why the eu should now take in more problem candidates in view of the considerable difficulties in cyprus, greece, portugal and other member states. the european union must devote all its strength to overcoming its internal challenges. that is why i voted against the accession of croatia on 1 july 2013 and also against this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the report because i cannot support the opening of new chapters in the eu accession negotiations with turkey. the turkish treatment of journalists who are critical of the government, of students who are peacefully demonstrating, their behaviour during the cypriot presidency of the council: instead of new chapters on accession, the appropriate consequence would be to stop the accession negotiations. the negotiations on regional aid are pure illusion. the extreme disparities in development within the country would require €140 billion in european structural funds in the next funding period alone. this is equivalent to 40% of our budget for structural assistance. let's finally tell each other the truth. relations with turkey could already be much more intensive and economically successful, but formal eu membership is more in the way!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted against the progress report on turkey, also for reasons of principle. i think the procedure is fundamentally wrong. normally, the procedure would have to be completed chapter by chapter. and only when you have a chance of success, when you have finished a chapter, then you start a new one. the report is characterized by a completely different structure, in that, although the first chapter has not yet been completed, new ones are suddenly opened. it's not doing either side a favor. i would simply say that it would also be an act of fairness to say to the other side that if you are not getting anywhere, you should accept that and develop intergovernmental relations accordingly. that would be the honest answer to a big problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is very good in large part because it clearly avoids the determination to join. we have done that throughout the whole of this parliament. this is an important signal to the council and the commission that accession is not a fixed objective for us. i would like to make it clear, however, that i am excluding it, because according to the treaty, only european countries which meet the criteria can join. turkey does not even come close to meeting the criteria, nor is it a european country. that is why we need a special status tailored to the needs of the individual and no longer this fixed idea of accession, which - i agree with my colleagues - will never become a reality anyway. then there will be a painful awakening on both sides. realism is the better alternative for both sides.
in writing. - i did not agree with the progress report on turkey, because although it contains many critical points, it is, in my view, too positive. the report also calls for the opening of further negotiating chapters on energy, social policy, regional policy, justice and home affairs, which i consider premature and not appropriate in the present situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not affected by the turkish government's refusal to implement the ankara protocol. the opening of new chapters sends the wrong message and raises false hopes.
in writing. - i welcome the draft resolution on the state of play of the accession negotiations between the european union and turkey. an important element of this draft resolution is that a system will be found for issuing visas to businessmen and entrepreneurs from turkey. many turkish businessmen are keen to come to the european union, particularly to invest in jobs and businesses. recently, this has been seen in the airline industry. it is desirable to achieve a more flexible and simplified system of issuing visas.
in writing. - i voted against the progress report on turkey's accession to the eu. i do not question the honesty of the rapporteur, but i find the procedure absurd. the negotiations have been going on for years, progress is marginal, turkey has already received billions in accession aid, about the use of which it has given little information, and any clear-minded person knows that there will be no unanimous agreement from all eu member states, in some countries this will already fail in a referendum. turkey will never fully accept the conditions of accession and an eu with turkey would have to change its content completely. the accession process must finally be completed and relations with turkey must be further developed on a partnership basis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. montenegro has a state tradition dating back to the 17th and 18th centuries and is a tradition of national tolerance. this tolerance between the ethnic groups makes montenegro an example in the region. that's why i understand the idea of giving him the status of a candidate. on the other hand, there are enormous problems in montenegro, as we saw in the recent presidential elections. so do not rush into things and take things one step at a time. i appeal to the forces of reform in the government and in the opposition to sit down and think about a serious reform of the country, which unfortunately, because of the internal political polarization, is still a long way off.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a friend of the serbian people, i naturally voted in favour of this report. but i can only marvel at what some people have said yesterday and today about the minority question. kosovo has the best minority rights in europe on paper. in practice, it is also doing very well. more than half of the serbian ethnic group in kosovo already participates in public life there with reserved mandates, with communal rights to their own police, on direct contracts with the neighboring country of serbia. this goes beyond the autonomy of south tyrol. on the other hand, the albanian minority in the preševo valley in serbia, but also in the novi pazar sandhill and even in vojvodina, have no minority rights, which are extremely lacking. i therefore say very clearly that the minorities in serbia should be happy to have the same rights as the minorities in kosovo. when i told the serbian foreign minister of the last government about this, he said: 'no, the rights we are demanding for the minorities in kosovo, we can ...' (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall now go on to my abstention on serbia. i propose that the border between kosovo and serbia be permanently abandoned. serbia should stop playing with it. instead, we need a minority agreement that makes minorities on both sides exactly the same. the albanian minority in the preševo valley in southern serbia could only benefit from this if it enjoyed the same rights as the serbs in kosovo.
no, mr president, it does not refer to the minutes, but to the vote this afternoon on the german version of the resolution on kosovo. i do not know if it is the same in the other language versions, but there president jahjaga, a very courageous lady, is made into a man and it says 'president jahjaga'. i ask that this be corrected in the german version and in all other language versions where this is incorrect.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i'm glad to hear that mrs vergiat is committed to human rights. because if you hear her speak here, you think she's a trotskyist propaganda station on two legs. human rights in vietnam are being violated by a communist, totalitarian regime, and particularly where they are most strong, namely freedom of expression and freedom of religion. that is why it is important that we speak out very clearly, because there people are oppressed, enslaved and sentenced to prison terms of up to ten years and life imprisonment just for their beliefs and just for following their conscience. we cannot listen to that, we cannot sugarcoat it. that is why we are strongly opposed to any form of suppression of freedom of religion and expression.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we are talking today about human rights violations in kazakhstan. we must also take into account the interest of the european union in this country, because many european companies are currently active in kazakhstan and have been in the past. the eu has a significant economic interest in kazakhstan. the eu is kazakhstan's largest trading partner and the largest importer of oil and gas. european companies are also involved in the exploitation of oil and gas. and we see human rights violations over and over again, not least in the great attack on oil workers. european companies therefore have a great responsibility to respect human rights. we as the european parliament have a responsibility to ensure that companies comply with these. that is why we need a robust sustainability chapter in the new partnership agreement with kazakhstan, with a functioning monitoring mechanism, so that we can check whether our demands are being met. we also need a new approach to resource extraction that puts human rights and social and environmental standards at the centre, that also promotes technology transfer, that takes into account local value creation and economic diversification, and that also promotes regional integration. human rights are the central challenge. human rights violations in the extractive sector are enormous. we must never put european self-interest above human rights in central asia. development cooperation must not be used for purely economic purposes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the intergroup resolution already addresses the demands made in the past, and we have exchanged views on these issues on several occasions. we can and must expect kazakhstan to uphold the rule of law and to respect the treaties and conventions it has signed. i therefore see this resolution as an invitation to move forward with common strategies. i am committed to a constructive dialogue with kazakhstan. of course, in order to further develop the region, we must also be critical. but an unbalanced, one-sided accusation of our kazakh partners, often based on unreliable sources, is not helpful to kazakhstan or to ourselves. i do not want a cooling of euro-kazakh relations, but rather a lively and forward-looking cooperation. i am therefore very much in favour of intensifying our relations in the political, security and economic fields, in culture and education. we must focus on the younger generation and think of them in the full acceptance of democracy, the rule of law and human rights!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a personal statement. firstly, i have been a human rights activist for 40 years, and this is something that is recognised in all political camps. in 20 years in this house, i have not missed a single one of these human rights debates. that's why i won't let you question how you did it, that i stood up for human rights. the second point concerns mrs vergiat. after speaking very strongly about vietnam and attacking my colleague preda and then making it clear that she has been a human rights activist for a long time, i said literally and i say it slowly so that you might understand it better in the translation and you can read this: i am pleased that mrs vergiat said that she has been a long-time human rights campaigner. otherwise, i would have thought she was talking like a communist propaganda station. that was my statement, because that is what it sounded like to many of us. that was a harsh statement, but it was a legitimate statement. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. you can't be a handful without being a handful. it is not the president's job to censor speeches, let alone in a debate on freedom of speech.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just for a second. first of all, i respect you, too. secondly, i swear to you, there is not a single bismarck fan in bavaria.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 18 april 2013.
ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked to inform you that chinese human rights activist chen guangcheng, who was under house arrest in china for a long time and who fled to the us embassy in beijing last year and fled the country by this route, is currently on a trip to europe and has made serious allegations against the chinese government: that in retaliation for his escape, his family has been subjected to harassment and mistreatment, his brother was beaten up after his testimony before the us congress on may 9, and his nephew was denied life-saving medical care in prison. i would like to say to mr chen guangcheng and his family, on behalf of the european parliament, that we are concerned and following these developments very closely and expressly assure them of our solidarity. it is clear that this parliament will not accept that the family of one of our most esteemed human rights defenders is subjected to physical and psychological intimidation. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked by many colleagues about what mr borghezio said in an interview with the italian radio station 24 on 30 april, the station of il sole 24 ore, about the nomination of the minister for integration, mrs cécile kasheto kyenge. i have also been informed of a petition signed by 130 000 citizens calling on parliament to force the resignation of mr borghezio or to impose sanctions on him. the remarks made by mr borghezio were discussed at length last week - this is a very extraordinary event - in the conference of presidents. i have informed the conference of presidents that, under the immunity provisions, i have no instruments at my disposal to take direct action against such statements. it is for the italian authorities to determine whether the offence is punishable. i also told the group chairman - and i repeat this here - that i personally do not think that such remarks are acceptable, but that they are a disgrace to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the conference of presidents therefore decided to examine a copy of the original interview and, if necessary, to condemn the remarks in a joint statement. i would like to express our solidarity with minister kyenge, who is an italian minister in the government of a member state of the european union and of congolese origin. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 16 may 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no amendments were proposed. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts in the field of the internal market, in particular to amend the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. is there a word for that?
perhaps i can try to clarify this: the conference of presidents was unanimous in its decision that the amendments should be voted on, but no final vote should be held. that was also the express wish of mr verhofstadt. mr verhofstadt said the same thing at the conference of presidents as he has said here, namely that he is prepared to vote on the amendments, but that the final vote should be suspended.
we cannot now repeat a debate from the conference of presidents. here 's what we 're gonna do . mrs harms, you will have the floor in a moment. i would ask mrs thyssen to state her proposal very precisely. i shall put it to the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say that at the end of the conference of presidents exactly what mr verhofstadt said happened. we left that meeting saying that the coordinators should agree. mr gauzès, after hearing again how horribly the meeting with the ecb had gone, said that he was open to the most far-reaching, the most radical solution.
mrs thyssen asked that we hold the vote, that we vote on the amendments and that the final vote be suspended. (parliament adopted the resolution) the epp group has asked for the casini report on the period for the eighth direct elections to the european parliament to be referred back to committee. i call mr agnew to speak on the grounds.
mr audy, i will reiterate your request to the president of the european council. i will also specifically mention again that it was you who brought this up for the second time. i do not know whether this will increase mr van rompuy's enthusiasm and bring him here on thursday. but i can tell you this: i'm going to tell you this. i agree with you on that.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european internal energy market 2012/2259 (ini) (a7-0135/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report is produced and discussed in the context of the necessary course we need to take in european policy on climate and energy policy beyond 2020, when the current framework of 2020 targets expires. we have tried to discuss in the committee on industry, research and energy the opportunities and challenges of renewable energy in the european internal market. and we also did it against the background of trying not to ban thinking, not to make a predetermination. the problem is that everyone would like to have very specific definitions - one of these, the other of those. we have tried to find a compromise, and i think we should try to uphold that compromise and also to sanction it by means of a resolution here today. i would like to thank the many colleagues, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have achieved this together. that meant that each of us had to go a little bit further, that's true. but it may offer the chance to be a starting point - that's all it is - a starting point for the next debates, including questions. for example, we have stated or recognised that there must continue to be european targets and intermediate targets for the period beyond 2020 to 2050. but we have, for example, been clear with a majority - and that was a relatively clear majority - against setting a single binding target for 2030 of 40 to 45% for renewable energy. in this report we have also tried to ask questions about the infrastructure challenges, not just about the question of renewable energy being important for the future - we have already decided this 100 000 times, it is not new - but rather to try to look at the new problems that have arisen as a result of this, such as the infrastructure challenges that are emerging. the present energy infrastructure is, of course, built under different conditions and the massive expansion of renewable energies is now creating entirely new difficulties for the security of energy supply, namely, where infrastructure has not been modernised, for example, traditional energy supply rather centralised near urban areas or large industrial plants and now very decentralised wind turbines, solar plants. the energy system is rarely prepared for this, and then problems arise, problems that are named, problems such as unplanned, sometimes cross-border energy flows, which in turn create additional costs that must also be taken into account when further developing renewable energies. we also need answers to the question of specific, modern infrastructure such as smart grids, flexible reserve capacity, demand management and the necessary network expansion. that too is part of this report. of course, a very important point in this report is the question of costs, which is repeatedly raised in various places, partly because of the higher subsidies and partly because of the cost-effective energy produced, especially because volatile, weather-dependent forms of production are not yet competitive in these renewable energy sources and because they also need flexible conventional reserves, for example, to maintain the supply at night or in the absence of wind. these reserve capacities must either be in place or be built, some of which cannot be done cost-efficiently yet or perhaps never. in other words, the report calls on the commission to investigate whether there is such a capacity problem and what possible solutions might be. we have comments in this report - and i think this is important - on the great variety of very different renewable energy support schemes, which burden both consumers and industry, and which cannot be ignored in the enthusiasm that renewable energy is important. and in more and more member states, the articulation of the voters and the people who say: 'this cannot continue, we need new solutions'. we need to use these funds in a targeted way and therefore more european support schemes, to use all the available financially sustainable means to reduce costs and increase competitiveness. that is the first entry into this debate!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when we tackle the promotion of renewable energy, we are of course tackling three key challenges: we are reducing our dependence on fossil fuels - which are becoming more expensive in the face of global change - we are contributing to climate policy, and we have also set clear industrial policy priorities. the promotion of renewable energy has created many new jobs in new industries, but also in old industries - steel, chemicals - many jobs have been preserved. in this sense, the promotion of renewable energy is a social and industrial policy project that empowers citizens in europe. the socialist group has two very important points: firstly, greater europeanisation, because we have problems. we must not only encourage investment in renewable energy but also ensure that it is integrated into the european union's energy networks and system. we need to do this by increasing integration, by investing in networks, both in distribution networks and in overland networks and in intelligent interconnections. we also need to make support systems more european. we really need to locate those that are particularly effective, and that is the issue of the feed-in tariff, in my view. but this must be europeanized so that we do not have a patchwork of problems, so that we do not have a distortion of competition in europe and, of course, so that we can guarantee more stable price developments. the question of europeanization is therefore a crucial one, in order not to have consequences for the behaviour of one member state towards another. the second pillar is reliability. of course, the development of renewable energy has given a major boost: the setting of the 2020 target of 20% of final energy use in 2008. this has led to investment, and has provided a corridor for energy security and a clear option for the renewable energy industry. we want to continue to be reliable, so that we can be sure of future investments. commissioner, you said that the investment for 2020 was cancelled yesterday. that's exactly what i think. and tomorrow morning, the investment for 2030 is needed. so let us decide tomorrow morning, firstly, on the binding nature of the objectives for 2030 and also on the direction of the target for the specific figure.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. they have, as before, demanded to use sun in the south and wind in the north. i hope you also realize that sometimes there is more wind in the south than in the north, and sometimes there is more sun in the north than in the south, and that the charm of renewable energy is precisely in harnessing the potential where it occurs, i.e. decentralized rather than solar parks in the south and wind parks in the north. that's not the concept at all. what do you think?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. even though half of europe is celebrating pentecost, we are naturally happy to discuss renewable energies in the european parliament. the road to the renewable energy age is a european road. a truly european single market for photovoltaics, wind, hydro and biomass energy will mean a cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy supply. but an isolated quota for the development of renewable energies leads to a dead end. i do not understand the amendment tabled by the left in the european parliament. we cannot rely on a market economy system for emissions trading if we force the expansion of renewable energy by quota in a planned economy. we cannot rely on free emissions trading if we also force energy savings through an annual savings obligation in a planned economy. the savings rate, the expansion rate, the co2 reduction rate - if we regulate each one separately without recognising the interrelationships, this is regulated twice and threefold and is paid twice and threefold by the economy and the electricity customers without any added value for the environment. what we need is integrated energy legislation that takes account of all the interactions. we need energy legislation in line with the plans of the national states to expand renewable energy. the reul report provides a very good starting point. on the other hand, a rush to renewable energy quotas would not only repeat the mistakes of the past, it would be the final death knell for emissions trading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so let's look at the interaction clearly for the 2030 goals. on this basis, and only on this basis, can we set quotas. perhaps a single specific requirement on co2 is enough! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking that question, fiona hall. certainly not with this concrete policy of always doing everything about coercion and quotas. for example, we could imagine that we would give a large amount of freedom to industrial enterprises that produce and use a large proportion of renewable energy in their production process, to buy emission allowances, to buy emission allowances, and thus to link one legislation with another. i would like to achieve the co2 target overall, but i would like to take account of the interaction of the laws.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. it is always easier to build than to rebuild. europe has opted for a sustainable energy transition. we have two advantages: we are creating a pillar of our own energy, because europe is poor in its own energy sources, and we are reducing emissions. we all agree that a good energy mix, a sustainable grid in all member states, must be built. the right power source has to be installed in the right place. the need to renew the networks makes even more sense if renewable, decentralized sources of energy are also included. and funding must be appropriate, long-term and also reliable. commissioner oettinger has mentioned the question of trust. this also applies to the production of biofuels and the 10% target for transport. what good are all the big goals if we keep changing them to suit us? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are some difficult targets in the room. we come from an old world of regional electricity supply - often a public utility, often without a market - and for 17 years we have decided, at european level, that electricity and gas should become products of the internal market. the internal market means, as a rule, no aid. the internal market is usually defined as competition and transport. and conversely, some goals, when we formulate them, require active support. for example: renewable energies temporary, degressive need support if they want to become competitive in the market, if the costs are to be degressive, but not at the beginning, but at the end in competition. the procedures concerning china were mentioned. first of all, let me be clear: i am not fighting a german position. i'm not fighting anything. i don't like the term. the commission has a clear position. the case is open, we're investigating. that means i am part of the case against china, but not part of their claim against germany. that's not my subject. i'm not gonna fall for that cheap trick! but let me be clear: the anti-dumping proceeding against china, against chinese measures against silicon production in europe, is resulting in the increase in the price of photovoltaics. because with anti-dumping - if dumping is eliminated - the total costs will be virulent and they will be higher. in other words, the anti-dumping proceeding may help the european pv industry, but not the european electricity price. the core tends to become more expensive, not cheaper. my concern is that pulling photovoltaic panels is low-tech. i do not think that we can even survive without dumping in europe with our environmental standards, which i support, and our labour costs, which we need. yes, well, if the labor cost in china is one tenth, it's still a 5.4% difference. mr turmes, allow me to make a point. i do not think that the completion of photovoltaic panels is, in essence, a task that can be accomplished in europe on a large scale. let's wait and see how it goes. modules yes, raw materials yes, high tech yes, software yes, but not the manufacture of the boards. machine tools, yes, but not this process. it's like a child's toy. toys are made in china, exported to us, and the tools come from europe. this process will certainly continue in the solar panel sector in the long term. i fully support many things, such as mr lange's: european networks, europeanisation of support systems, reduction of distortion of competition, completion of the internal market. the question then becomes: decentralised or centralised? our energy needs, our electricity needs are so great, we need more decentralized and local production, but we still need centralized and large-scale solutions. both-and-also and not either-or is my answer to that question. i am in favour of a single european energy market. we will therefore expand the networks across borders, identify projects of common interest in october connecting europe co-finance some for the integration of peripheral countries, and we will carefully consider which aid is necessary. there were a few, i'll say this once, attacks. mr turmes asked me why i was allowing subsidies for nuclear power. so a) there are not even formal requests for this, b) the examination has not yet begun, c) the commission will decide and not i, but d) there are foreseeable requests to which i am very restrictive. they will come from france, from the uk, from the czech republic. not in the form of a direct subsidy, but these countries will ask that new nuclear power plants receive a feed-in tariff that is, a guaranteed delivery price for electricity . i am very distant from this, but i am sorry, but let each of us see what we can do in these countries and in general. and my colleague almunia is in charge, i'm just helping him. i am very happy to be a socialist and a christian democrat. but if you're going to accuse me here, i'd allow it, it's a brazen thing that's the opposite of my position. i would ask you not to make that claim again, mr turmes. secondly, another charge was that we were not doing anything. first of all, it was a clever double-crossing by two green vice-presidents. the spanish asks, the luxembourg answers old-fashioned. that's wonderful. my advice is, go to the cafeteria, speak your mind, come to an agreement, and leave us alone with this. it's a cheap game. first of all, i'm not idle. tomorrow morning i will be joined by the two secretaries of state from madrid, the secretary of state for the environment and the secretary of state for energy. we are critical of the whole thing. when can we move? if spain clearly misses the 20% target. that's not exactly the case. spain is still on track according to the calculations of our experts, which i am happy to disclose. i am prepared to answer any questions. spain has done more than was necessary in the annual build-up between 2009 and 2012; even if they do nothing for three years now, the 2020 target is still within reach. and unfortunately, mr. turmes, if you shake your head and have no idea, your hair falls out, nothing helps. we have the figures for the year on the table. (calling) and you can assume that we will intervene, i am also in close contact with ngos and operators, if we realize that spain cannot do this. spain is still above the plan, not below the plan. in addition, the spanish constitution probably does not provide for the right to bring an action keyword: expropriation, keyword: property rights as would be the case in other member states. it is possible that retroactive deterioration is possible in spain and not preventable at european level. this is a matter of spanish policy which must be discussed in parliament in madrid, but not primarily here, because we have not been given the instruments to do so. in addition, in spain we have regulated electricity prices. and spanish energy companies have accumulated 30 billion euros of debt. the revenue generated from the sale of electricity is equivalent to about 5 billion less revenue year after year than the parallel expenditure. we have a big problem not only with the banks in spain. the four relevant electricity players have accumulated eur 30 billion of debt which cannot be currently met by regulated prices and which is increasing by eur 5 billion year on year. but i am happy to continue the discussion with you both in good faith for the next four weeks. i'm worried about you. i will not be accused of nothing but inaction! nor from my colleague merkie, who says i'm generally inactive. what are we doing for renewable energy? firstly, we are launching infringement proceedings if the member states do not implement the directives. i've done it a few times. we're having counselling sessions. we make public statements, we make exhortations. we control the progress. we will do the grid expansion in the interest of renewable energy. the networks through salzburg need voestalpine in linz for hydroelectric power from the central alps. without renewables, the grid would be unnecessary. generally, renewables require a new network to cover the whole area. the old world: the power plant on the river, the network into the region like a spider's web to the consumer and to the workplace. the new world is called from north to south, from west to east. this means that a considerable proportion of the new networks will be connected with the development of renewable energy sources that we want to see, because renewable energy sources are often not located where consumption is: offshore wind, hydropower in the central alps, pumped storage in the western balkans, but consumption in the metropolises of vienna, linz, munich, hamburg, dortmund, paris. that means that we must also fight together for permits for networks that you would not need if you wanted to remain in the old world, in the fossil world, which we all do not want to do. now, on the subject of gas, if anyone wants to be a friend of gas, it's the solar and wind friend. because gas is the most flexible and sustainable fossil fuel, and it can quickly guarantee the security of supply when the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing. my advice is - and i agree with mr turmes - not to import all the gas from russia, but to keep the shale gas option in europe, especially as our own gas reserves in the united kingdom and the netherlands are going to run out quickly, and i cannot imagine 100% import from third countries in terms of gas. modern gas power stations decentralised, including smaller, highly energy efficient are imperative, as the possibility of storing electricity will be very limited in europe in the next ten to fifteen years. i would like to offer parliament another discussion before the end of the year, when we have done our green paper analysis, before the commission has to come up with binding proposals. but i am very interested in your vote also in strasbourg these days on a vote on renewable energies, targets, binding yes or no, amount, how high, how much. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. if we want to promote more renewable energy in europe, we will only be able to do so if we involve people, if we achieve acceptance. that is what some speakers have said. the only way to do that is to make the process more realistic. (without a microphone) to push forward, who every day sets new goals and new numbers, always bigger and always more demanding, but who names the problems and solves them. the expansion, the increase in renewable energy will only work if you also take into account the impact, the cost, the price. it is interesting that colleagues from several countries have pointed out the energy prices here. the need for infrastructure development is not something that can be magically brought about, but something that must be built. and that takes time. if we take into account neighbours affected by the expansion and find solutions for them, and if we also take into account interdependencies, colleagues have also pointed out that the expansion of renewable energies, if we push it very hard, also has repercussions, for example, on the emissions trading system. i would like to say that we would do well to try to approach this common objective of more renewable energy in a more realistic, pragmatic way and to take it forward. one of the answers will certainly be that we must also think more european about this promotion of renewable energy. mr lange referred to the networks, and rightly so to the support schemes. whether it's fast now and how it looks in the system, but that it has to go in that direction is unquestionable. we cannot allow ourselves to be so confused and, above all, to have such a cost driver for so long. because that will lead to the people, the citizens of europe not going down that path. then we won nothing, then we made great decisions, but achieved nothing. i think we are at a point where we need to stop for a second and consider what such a pragmatic, realistic european path might look like. the report is intended to contribute. i hope we are not building ourselves a future by going overboard again with enthusiasm and demanding more and bigger goals without thinking about what that means and what it looks like in reality. sometimes slower is better.
member of the commission. − mr president, hopefully next session you will vote on the new asylum system. when we have that in place we will have achieved something historic. it will take some time before it works in all member states but it will mean that all member states will have the possibility of receiving asylum seekers in a fair, transparent and humane way. today, basically only ten countries in the european union receive all the asylum seekers. last year this was a bit more than 330 000 people. of course, in the medium term this will mean that we can distribute the responsibility a little better in the european union and that we can help more people. however, there will always be differences between the member states. there will be differences because countries are located differently, geographically; there are histories in different member states; there is the reputation issue; people go to where there are fellow countrymen; there are events in neighbourhoods which have an influence as well. therefore we will always have to be prepared for some sort of solidarity mechanism or some sort of assistance. there will be an evaluation mechanism in the new dublin regulation, hopefully evaluating and detecting where a member state could face a lot of pressure if there are weaknesses in the system. we could identify that and mobilise a whole range of tools to alleviate the pressure. but again, there will always be some sort of mechanism. i was very happy about the eurema scheme in malta. we have helped malta – if not as much as we would have liked, at least a little bit. i called for the second eurema conference. it was very difficult to get member states to pledge places – very difficult – and as you saw, only 14 people have been relocated through that scheme. when, as i told you, we discussed with the ministers the possibility of setting up a scheme such as you are asking for – a legislative, permanent scheme – only a couple of member states were in favour, but a vast majority were totally against. there is not the political climate today to make it possible to propose such a scheme. we could, of course, propose it, but there would be a robust ‘no’ and it would not happen; it would only be a paper tiger. i think we could achieve the same goals by setting up this forum with the commission, together with easo and other experts, giving regular reports, convening the forum and identifying where the needs are the biggest, and hopefully member states could pledge the places in order to help and show solidarity. we have set aside specific lump sums for that in order to provide also the economic possibilities for solidarity, and together with the experience, the know-how and the best practices which we have gained from eurema, i think this could be almost as good as a permanent legislative system. it is definitely, in the current political climate, the only way forward.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the european union is truly lucky to have mr duff and his knowledge of institutional matters in the union. the fact that the lisbon treaty has given the charter of fundamental rights of the eu the same legal value as the treaties is a very important step forward for fundamental rights protection in europe. the charter reaffirms the rights as they derive from several sources of european and national law, and it strengthens them by making them more visible. the commission is committed to ensuring systematic implementation of the charter, not only through rigorous legal scrutiny but equally through political scrutiny to ascertain the impact of eu actions on fundamental rights, and in doing so it intends to meet the long-standing and legitimate expectations which have been voiced in particular here in the european parliament. the commission fully shares the view of the rapporteur that the protocol we are debating today is not an opt-out. protocol 30 clarifies the application of the charter in relation to the laws and administrative action of the member states concerned and its justiciability within those member states. it is certainly without prejudice to all other obligations stemming from european law and the treaties, in particular the general principles of eu law concerning fundamental rights, as defined in article 7 of the treaty on european union. the commission acknowledges that the heads of state and government made an agreement to attach the protocol for the czech republic in the very specific context of the ratification of the lisbon treaty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this so-called opt-out was a great citizen deception from the beginning. it is not an opt-out, it does not change the text according to the existing case law, nor does it in any way change the legal meaning of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. so it creates more ambiguity than clarity. it was a manoeuvre against the people, against democracy and against europe from the outset. the fundamental rights are not optional; they apply to all european citizens without distinction in the same way. that is the position we must maintain here in the european parliament. it seems to me important to point out that this was also the position of the czech parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament has voted! the constitutional court has agreed, all institutions in the czech republic! it was the czech president klaus who, in a medieval exaggeration of his own powers, believed he could enforce this opt-out on the basis of a false justification, namely the beneš decrees. i am glad that we now have a consensus in the house that we do not want to undermine the european acquis in such a false way. it is the same everywhere, and fortunately in the czech republic too!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank andrew duff and, above all, to emphasise that he has been critical of the council's decision of 2009 from the outset. the commission has also taken the view that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances. let us remember: the czech president's demands already passed both chambers of parliament in 2009. one and a half years ago, one of the two czech chambers, the senate, had already expressed itself unequivocally against the application of the protocol. and two months ago, a new president took office. in this context, i can only welcome the fact that the epp has also managed to take account of the political realities. looking around the eu today, it is hard to ignore that there are still vengeful old men and increasingly new nationalists. the question is therefore legitimate: in a europe where social achievements are being deliberately and repeatedly thrown overboard every day, will these forces not one day also take advantage of the historical achievements of the european integration process? the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos. the charter of fundamental rights must therefore be fully applicable to all czech citizens.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to raise the issue of the ban on olive oil being served openly on tables. this has been very much in the news in germany in recent days. in future, olive oil will no longer be allowed to be on the table in the eu. a ban by the european commission is due to take effect on 1 january 2014, a commission spokesman said. the commission's proposal was to introduce a new system of taxation of olive oil, which would be introduced in the uk in the year 2000. and it goes further: the question to the commission spokesman whether olive oil should be followed by a regulation on vinegar, open-service house wine or labelling rules for salt and pepper was answered by the commission spokesman that it could be extended to other products. i take this opportunity to ask the commission: what does the commission want to impose on the people of europe? do we not have other problems to solve in the european union than to deal with olive oil cans on restaurant tables? yeah, that's my subject. long live the bureaucracy! i would like to ask the commissioner, the vice-president, to take this back to the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have a good message for the honourable member mr migalski: i am not from the epp and i welcome the borys report, which is generally well balanced, gives broad support to the approach taken in the audiovisual directive and will certainly help shape future commission action. i would like to give my heartfelt thanks to the rapporteur and the shadows for all the work they did. with regard to the implementation of the current avmsd, the commission will launch a study on the exposure of minors to alcohol advertising. the results should be available at the end of 2014. as regards future policies, the commission has published a green paper on convergence and would like to give an opportunity to all interested stakeholders to make their voices heard in the debate. while traditional broadcasts with a viewing average of four hours per day are still important, we cannot ignore the over 40 million connectable tvs across europe. even if many of the new functionalities are not being used yet, they are just one example of converging experience. our goal is clear. we want to see economic growth and at the same time protect values. this green paper launches a consultation process which questions all stakeholders on how to achieve this goal. on the basis of the results of this process we will decide on the necessity for potential follow-up steps. the consultation process will run until the end of august. the scope of the green paper is broader than tv sets with added internet connectivity and aims to address the progressive merging of traditional broadcast services and the internet in a more holistic way. topics such as accessibility, access to and financing of european content, advertising regulation and the protection of minors are addressed in the green paper. looking at growth and values, topics also include market considerations, financing models, interoperability and infrastructure. this runs in parallel with two other consultations in the area of the media: freedom and pluralism. i have already mentioned the others, as you will certainly remember. we are looking forward to continued good cooperation with parliament and in particular with the committee on culture and education on this issue.
thank you, ria, for the very good report and the cooperation between empl and econ! employees and employers are concerned about the impetus to apply the capital requirements for life insurance, i.e. solvency ii, to occupational pensions. cost increases of up to 30% are putting the viability of successful systems in question. as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i was able to compromise with only one vote against. we are appealing to the european commission, mrs kroes, not to put the axe to the company pensions! they are designed very differently in the member states, ria is right, and not to be compared with life insurance. we must prevent copy and paste laws. instead of celebrating harmonization orgies, we need precise analyses of the local situation, with a strict attention to the cost-benefit ratio. if the occupational pensions directive is now being revised by commissioner barnier, then solvency ii must no longer play a role.
in writing. the occupational pension scheme must not be equated with insurance companies! it is a pillar of our social system and must not be jeopardized by inappropriate regulations. i therefore ask that the solvency ii rules for insurance not be applied to occupational pensions. you can't rely on pensions. the transfer of inappropriate insurance provisions to occupational pension provision would, however, have the opposite effect: the extension of the equity provisions would make solidarity provision too expensive for many employers. instead of providing for a secure pension, the commission would accept the abolition of voluntary pension schemes. the public and occupational pensions are instruments of solidarity, whereas the private provision is merely an additional provision. we must now send a clear signal that community care as a social pillar of our society must be strengthened and protected. the social security system must not only prevent poverty but also guarantee a decent standard of living. i therefore urge members to support our amendment to take special account of the specific features of occupational pension schemes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the european union's industry has been and is a driver of job creation and the promotion of growth and innovation. this is also reflected in the fact that countries with a strong industrial base are better able to recover from the financial crisis than others. the eu commission has recognised this. it is also drawing the right conclusions by developing a new industrial policy strategy. but i think that this strategy lacks a regional dimension. because industry is not created and operates in a vacuum. it needs manpower, raw materials, energy, infrastructure, research and training facilities and finance. industrial and urban areas therefore belong together. this is why industrial regions are always urban regions. and these urban regions have specific strengths and weaknesses. europe has many mountain industrial regions which have overcome their former monostructure in recent decades, such as the ruhr area, the industrial area of central england, lille or liège. these regions have all the potential of an industrial area, but also have specific problems which, in my view, are not sufficiently addressed by the eu's regional policy instruments. let's just take the environmental pollution in the soil as an example. many well-developed industrial waste sites cannot be re-cultivated because the soil is too heavily stressed. the polluter is not tangible, no investor wants to take on this burden when he has cheaper alternatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the community initiative was previously available for this purpose and i cannot conceal that i have been thinking of using this instrument again. however, there is also a strategic problem here. the successful development of their industry requires a regional strategy. the commission supports the smart specialisation approach. this is true, but once again the implementation of such a strategy must take account of the regional strengths and weaknesses of each region. so, in addition to money and support instruments, it is also about policy concepts and instruments, information and guidance where needed. these are the general challenges. all this is happening in an economic situation in which we are experiencing an economic downturn in many countries, often affecting industrial sectors in particular. in addition, current financial problems arising from the crisis all too often prevent member states and regions from making full use of the structural funds available. these conditions make it all the more necessary to exploit fully the potential for innovation latent in industrial regions. the eu can help. we are at the beginning of a strategy and i would be glad if my report could contribute to it. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the environment committee and the commission services who have given me excellent support in the preparation of my report.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 22 may 2013 (2012/2805 ((rsp)) and the report by mojca kleva kekuš on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens (com (2012) 0722 (ini)) (a7-0162/2013), and the report by ildikó gáll-pelzungcz on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the annual tax report: ways to unlock the eu's growth potential (com (2012) 0756 (ini)) (a7-0154/2013).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the only way to combat tax fraud and tax evasion is to have clear rules and to have them applied in a clear and unambiguous way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the internal market. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. in this respect, the kleva report, which was voted on in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, is a great step forward and a clear signal to the euro summit on 22 may. it is a success that effective criteria - a combination of oecd standards and codes of conduct - are finally being called for by parliament, the council and the commission. states that refuse to provide transparency and disclosure of tax information will be blacklisted as tax havens, as will states that do not levy any or only nominal taxes, which provide tax advantages even if no real economic activity or presence can be proven. it is a success that effective sanctions are finally being called for, including the withdrawal of licences for financial institutions that operate branches in tax havens. the commission is also proposing to suspend or terminate double taxation agreements with countries and territories on the blacklist. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. it is a success that this report shows ways of tackling aggressive tax avoidance strategies and not waiting for the g20 or anyone else to agree. the european union and its member states are role models. the report calls for such action, particularly from the member states which have repeatedly been conspicuous. it is unacceptable, especially for member states, to refuse to disclose tax information or to damage the basic idea of european solidarity by aggressive tax competition. the financial, economic and consequently budgetary crisis in many member states should be reason enough to finally deal effectively with the misappropriation of around one trillion euros in taxpayers' money. this report should make it clear to the heads of state and government that action must be taken now and that it is not the time to postpone anything to st nimmerlein day. let me make one final remark: we had the free trade agreement with peru and colombia on the agenda for decision at the beginning of this year. in december last year, a study by the german bundestag's scientific service pointed out that this free trade agreement has opened a whole series of doors and windows for tax evasion, tax fraud and possibly money laundering. i hope that this regulation will help to close those open doors and windows in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard so much talk today about the poverty that threatens people in europe, the lack of growth, the lack of jobs. if it becomes concrete and if the commission ensures that at the next energy summit this week, in this council, there is an urgent debate on the issue of where jobs can be created, on the question of whether we are continuing to drive up energy prices and thus driving people into poverty, then we will all be in a pinch here. then we won't talk about it. we are not prepared to say: yes, it is high time for a change of direction, for a tangible change in energy policy. what the commissioner, the president of the commission, has said today is absolutely correct. we need to change the direction of energy policy if we want growth, if we want industry, if we want to stop people being treated badly with prices. it is a damned lie, it is a real lie, what we are saying here in part, when we complain about poverty, about the lack of jobs and then are not prepared to draw the consequences. you can't just backload and ignore the consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. it is not possible to ignore the fact that the internal market in energy is not working at all. it is impossible to ignore the fact that the cost of energy in america is only half of what it is in germany. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but the numbers don't lie! the facts are clear: we have too high a price. and if we do not succeed in turning energy policy back at european level from its one-sided focus on climate policy to competition policy and affordability, if we do not succeed in having a more realistic debate, then all this will remain fake! it is not worth crying crocodile tears here and saying how bad the situation is, and then, when a step is finally taken this week, going back to the bushes and saying: we have nothing to do with this, we will continue, we will continue to decide on higher prices, we will continue to raise prices, we will continue to ensure that the internal market does not work. if i had one wish, it would be that we finally be consistent. i am very grateful to the commission for finally offering a change of direction. it's up to us to use it. (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr obermayr, do you not agree with me that austria is part of the problem and not the solution? austria has in recent years repeatedly found a way to avoid taxing interest. austria has foundation regulations which invite the rich to engage in tax evasion under austrian law. how dare you say that austria is the solution? austria is, in my view, part of the problem of the shifting of responsibility between luxembourg, austria, switzerland, liechtenstein, the cayman islands, etc. and as long as the european commission is not able to dry up tax havens within the european union, it has no right to act externally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to expressly oppose the european people's party as a social democrat. there is only one message that the heads of state and government must follow if they want to take a clear course on the tax question - only one message: it cannot and must not be that european societies, european states, are paid exclusively by those who either cannot run away or are too decent to run away. that's the central message we're talking about! from this place, they can sort out which file they're dealing with. it starts with the vat fraud. it must not take eight months for a country that wants to do something about it to get its approval. the british conservative government is putting the brakes on this. i hope you can do it tomorrow. it is not possible for us to take the right step in the interest rate directive, to give the commission the mandate to negotiate on behalf of the european union, while at the same time continuing to impede the member states of the european union in their own reasonable procedures. we cannot expect from others what we cannot regulate in our own house. if you can make it clear that austria and luxembourg are no longer blocking, then we are in order. but it has to go before that! the same applies to the assessment basis. just implement what we have achieved with crd iv, with banking legislation: country by country reporting - not just by financial institutions, but by all the big companies - where what profits, where what taxes, where what subsidies. this is service to the citizens of europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. when our citizens learn that a billion euros are lost to the budget each year through tax evasion and avoidance, they no longer understand the world. because at the same time they hear that some political groups, such as the greens and the social democrats, are calling for new taxes or for an increase in existing taxes. that's not possible! it's about applying the laws we have systematically. the citizens are tired of being comforted by lip service. they want action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european countries must set an example with their offshore tax havens. we must ensure that tax evaders are also punished with draconian measures. tax evasion is not a chivalrous offense, it is a criminal act! and we need to appeal to our corporate citizens, the businesses, to think not just in legal terms, but in legitimate terms. what they're doing may be legal, but it's not legitimate. they have a responsibility not only to the shareholders but also to society. finally, we must make progress in harmonizing. this is particularly true for the assessment basis and the ranges not identical but harmonised, with narrow ranges . the member states can no longer hide behind their sovereignty in tax matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i have to say to mr šemeta and also to the irish presidency of the council that it is of course a pleasure that there is now finally a movement on the subject of tax havens and tax evasion. we owe this movement to the journalists who exposed offshore leaks, and to the american push for their fatca agreement. but unfortunately, if you look at the details of the draft final declaration, the back rowing has already started again. there is virtually no specific deadline. the member states are not prepared to commit themselves to specific deadlines. the interest rate directive is not a matter for the heads of state or government to correct the mistake of the finance ministers in not taking a decision now. there is no support for or mention of the common corporate tax base. the action plan is to be followed up, but no deadline. the code of conduct against harmful business tax competition should reflect whether it will be amended. and there is no commitment to country-specific reporting obligations. so, councilman, please act now! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. − in the age of the energy transition, we know how important it is to develop renewable energies efficiently and at european level. the eu's current target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 is achievable, but we cannot rest on our laurels. we have to think outside the box. and we must think more european! there are currently 170 ways of promoting renewables in the eu. there are large differences in development between member states, massive losses of efficiency due to wrong locations, lack of use of cooperation opportunities between member states and the urgent need for infrastructure development. at european level, we must therefore ask ourselves whether a european framework for promotion could not lead to better and more efficient results than the current national approaches. we must be realistic about this, and we must not forget electricity prices or our industrial competitiveness. we have to be careful. that is why i am against binding targets for 2030: i say yes to greater investment security for our electricity companies for the future, but no to one-dimensional solutions. i therefore think it is useful to create common european guidelines without being too presumptuous, too rigid or even ignoring our regional circumstances. our report, which was voted on today, is the right signal to the european commission.
in writing. the european parliament today called for a secure pension. i therefore voted for the report by my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, on the white paper on pensions, and i congratulate her - but not only her: i also congratulate the current and future workers and the many retired workers in europe. we have sent a clear signal to the plenary: yes to a pension system based on the three strong pillars of public, company and private provision. we have made it clear today that pensions are not just 'financial products' on the open market. the occupational pension scheme is a highly commendable social service provided by employers to their employees. comparing it to other financial products is like comparing apples to pears. we, dear ria, made this clear at the european retirement forum in nuremberg in march. and even then the representatives of the com were ready to renegotiate it. i appeal to the european commissioner: mr barnier, take today's vote seriously, take our workers' pensions seriously and follow the advice of your experts at the nuremberg pension forum: please keep your hands off our workers' pensions. the solvency plans must be removed!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the last few months have been intense work. this started with the commission staff giving up their holidays to take a big step towards banking union after the council decision, after which the texts were quickly presented on the reform of the european banking authority, where i was rapporteur, and of course on the transfer of tasks to the european central bank for the common banking supervision in europe, initially in the euro zone, but open to other countries. the fact that this was the right step is also shown by the current situation: we are really not out of the woods with the banking crisis. we have now, after many banks have been heavily speculating, a second phase of the banking crisis, in which increasingly bad loans from the recession in many countries that we are currently experiencing are accumulating in the balance sheets of banks and thus leading to new problems. to put it bluntly, the european internal market in the financial sector is not working properly if in one part of the internal market there is no credit at all or it is overpriced and in other parts it costs almost nothing and at the same time the regions - including my own country - which have cheap credit are preventing banks from channelling this liquidity to the weaker regions through regulatory measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we could have avoided this crisis if we had done what the european parliament had proposed before, namely to achieve a common banking union. the proposals we are now discussing consist of two parts: the reform of the eba, the european banking authority. i must say that in my own report - and i am a little unhappy about it - we had to swallow the biggest toad, namely that we had to change the voting system so that there would be double majorities in the future. this is actually a step backwards in european integration, but we had to do this because, understandably, the non-euro states argued that they would be systematically outvoted by the majority of euro states. we also had to rely on the consensus of the member states when we decided to transfer the common banking supervision to the european central bank. the commission has also argued that there were alternative options, but that the council has already abandoned them, so that we as a parliament and all the member states are now faced with the decision either to achieve banking union within the framework of the ecb or to do without it. and then, in my view, the right balance is to say: we are taking this step now, we need to do it within the eurozone, instead of arguing against it now with many arguments there. the second challenge is that the european central bank is not exactly the birthplace of democracy in europe. this means that they will have to get used to the fact that in the future they will be subject to democratic control in the area of supervision, while monetary policy will of course be subject to the independence of the central bank. the details will have to be negotiated. that is why we are not voting on both reports here, but we want to conclude an interinstitutional agreement with the european central bank that will firmly and in detail enshrine these democratic rights of parliament - which our colleagues in the national parliaments also expect from us. that is why this vote cannot now be taken definitively. but i am still looking forward to the support for both reports. i think this is a bold step forward, where we are doing what parliament called for three years ago.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. with tomorrow's vote on the reform of european banking supervision, we are sending an important signal to the financial markets and above all to the citizens of europe. europe is pulling together on this issue of tightening controls on european banks. as the european parliament, we have long advocated better coordination in eu financial supervision, especially for institutions that operate across borders. the ecb will now take the lead, particularly in the case of large banks. we have succeeded in ensuring a good basis for cooperation and coordination with the european banking authority (eba), which will remain responsible for banks in those member states which do not join the ecb's supervision. the cooperation between the ecb and national supervisors will also play a crucial role. in particular, the supervision of small and medium-sized banks requires balanced and practicable solutions to ensure efficient but non-duplicative reporting. european policy places great trust in the european central bank. but there is also the saying: "trust is good, control is better". i would go even further: control is not only better, but absolutely necessary. as members of the european parliament, we have the power to control the future european supervisory practice. in its supervisory function, the european central bank must be transparent and above all accountable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the prudential supervision of the european central bank. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. it is therefore clear that changes in the supervisory structures alone will not achieve our objectives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the adoption of the equity capital directive at the last strasbourg meeting has already ensured that banks will have to maintain more equity and liquidity in the future. the econ committee yesterday cleared the way for strict european standards on the resolution of banks. as the member of the european people's party responsible for deposit guarantee in this house, i would like to stress once again the importance of progress on this subject. the european parliament has already voted over a year ago in favour of strict european standards in national deposit guarantee schemes. i would therefore like to call on the council - mrs creighton is here today - to take action once again.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question for mr pitella, who as vice-president often leads the negotiations here. mr pitella, you said that for the first time the dogma of the independence of the ecb was being called into question and that democratic control was being introduced for the first time. are you aware that vice-president constâncio, who is responsible for this part, has completely questioned this very point in the first negotiation of an interinstitutional agreement and has stressed that he will not tolerate any additional controls on the ecb's bodies? are you familiar with this, or have you said this for the first time today and do not know what is in the treaties?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european single market is necessary - and i think it is - but we must also have a common banking supervision in the long term. i welcome what we have started here. at the same time, however, i am also sceptical, and for the same reason: we are dealing with a single market, but banking supervision is only for the euro area. but the banks are so closely linked between the euro area and the single market that i have my doubts whether this can work in the long term. it's only going to work if we can take the next step very quickly. it would have been sensible, from my point of view and that of my group, to have put the whole thing in the hands of the eba. it was set up in 2010 with the support of this house to get european banking supervision. the problem of the ecb is one which has already been sufficiently described by the honourable members. it is a concentration of power which is hardly acceptable anymore, and which is being applied to the ecb. for this reason i find it - i can only emphasize what my predecessors have said - totally unacceptable that the ecb should be so proud of itself and refuse to allow at least part of its banking supervision to be democratically controlled and democratically legitimized. that's the minimum. and we should not fail to fight for and insist that there be a clear agreement between this house and the ecb on the necessary controls as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. right now, stock markets are booming, and peripheral countries' sovereign bond yields are falling. you might feel that everything is moving in the right direction. let's not kid ourselves. we've only got a breathing space. the ecb bought it with unorthodox measures taken last year, interpreting its mandate in a relatively broad way. we must recognize that many banks are still sick and very fragile. we have to acknowledge that in recent years we have seen a renationalisation of the financial services sector. we must realize that banking groups operating internationally cannot move capital from one unit to another where it is much more urgently needed. we in the european parliament proposed two years ago the establishment of a european banking supervision. we said at the time that this should be banking supervision for all the eu-27, not just for the members of the euro zone. we wanted to have them close to the ecb, but not under the ecb's roof, to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest between monetary policy and banking supervision. so now we're going to take a step that's not optimal, but it's an important step. i would say that it is as important - and almost comparable - as the establishment of the eurozone or joining the eurozone. this european banking supervision opens up the possibility of breaking the unholy link between banks and state financing. it opens up the possibility for international banking groups to actually use capital where they need it most. and it also allows banks to go into liquidation without burdening the taxpayer. this is all very positive. we must note that the scope of this single supervisor is of course very limited, namely to only 135 to about 150 institutions. we would have preferred that the supervisory authorities themselves decide who they deal with in detail. it is important to us that the members who are not in the euro zone can participate voluntarily. and we have managed to get them to have the same rights and the same duties. what i do not like is that these non-eurozone members have the option of leaving again after three years if they want to, without giving any major reasons. what i also do not like is that the non-euro area members of the eba have the ability to exercise a de facto veto over decisions. the ecb has made great strides in understanding what it means to avoid conflicts of interest. the organisational conditions for a separation between monetary policy and supervision are well under way. the commission's approach to accountability - as has been said by several previous speakers - is very insensitive and obstinate. i can only say that we must be firm here. at the same time, we must ensure that what gianni pittella said does not happen, namely that we as parliamentarians now believe that we can influence the ecb's independence in monetary policy through the back door by means of so-called accountability. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that's exactly what i want and what i intend, dear olle. i therefore believe that non-euro area members can join this supervisory mechanism with equal rights and obligations. but if they have chosen to be part of it, they must remain part of it. then they can't just say one day, "i don't like this decision or that decision, so i'm leaving". because the eurozone members don't have the opportunity either. equal rights, equal duties, and therefore equal membership!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to thank the negotiators who have tried to impose parliament's demands in many trilogue negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council's decision is not binding on parliament. it cannot ultimately take part in the decision-making process, as it does in the codecision procedure. in addition, i share the concern expressed by some of my colleagues that the transfer of powers to the european central bank may not strengthen the european single market but may tear it apart. we know that banks are too big, that weak supervision, different regulations and easy state financing were the reasons. but whether article 127 (6) is the appropriate legal basis will be seen, and i am convinced that it is the wrong one. mr constâncio has already stated during the first negotiations that he has no intention of having the ecb actually control people, proposals and decisions. secondly, the distinction between banks is largely arbitrary and has nothing to do with systemic relevance. the treaties provide that the ecb is to be responsible for certain tasks relating to banking supervision. separating 150 banks may be the sensible compromise, but there are peremptory rights for all banks. it's in the relevant articles. the ecb can intervene in any of the smallest of the 6 200 banks if necessary. the cooperation with the national supervisors is not really clear. in fact, they become branches of the ecb, recipients of orders rather than equal partners. fourthly, the risk potential is increasing - this has been mentioned - because the ecb will be responsible for monetary policy and banking supervision in the future and may therefore come under political pressure. and finally, there is no accountability. i have already said that, in the absence of the interinstitutional agreement, the whole thing is very difficult to manage. we cannot talk about democratic progress if the ecb refuses. the election procedure for the chairmen of the supervisory bodies is not sufficient for this purpose either. the entry into force is unclear, at the earliest in the second half of 2014, so again there is no hurry at all in setting up a european supervision, which we will not get so soon. i see it as a case of establishing an independent banking supervisory authority with advisory and consultative powers for the ecb on the basis of the eba, of giving the ecb an immediate right of objection for euro area banks in recapitalising and using the esm, of the eu commission strengthening the role of the economic and monetary affairs commissioner, as with the competition commissioner, and not further disempowering him, and of establishing, in addition, as some have called for, an independent banking supervision with the necessary contractual changes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the financial sector, profits have often been privatised, while risks and losses have been socialised. by the end of 2011, eu countries had to put in over eur 440 billion - or 3.5% of the european union's gdp - in capital assistance to failing banks. in addition, eur 1174 billion in liquidity assistance was drawn by banks! this is equivalent to 9.3% of the european union's gross domestic product. however, in a social market economy, there must be liability and risk. the state and taxpayers must finally be freed from the stranglehold of the banks. we are now taking another important step towards more stable financial markets by creating a common supervision of banks. the european central bank now has the task of ensuring uniform and high standards of supervision and consistent implementation, and of being fully accountable to us, the european parliament. the common supervisory approach is, however, only one of the three pillars of a future banking union. the chaos of the cyprus bank rescue has clearly demonstrated that the other two pillars of the banking union - the deposit guarantee schemes and the bank restructuring and resolution mechanism - are indispensable to restoring the stability of the financial system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are now waiting for the common position of the council to take this second pillar of banking union as far as we have come with the first pillar of supervisory legislation. however, as regards the third pillar of banking union, the new deposit guarantee directive, we in the european parliament have already emphasized its importance for comprehensive protection of savings when it was adopted at first reading in february last year. but the council has not said anything, even after 15 months! but without the completion of this legislative procedure, the banking union will not be complete, with all the consequences that this entails. we therefore expect the council, and in particular the irish presidency, to finally keep pace with the european parliament in this area, in order to complete the banking union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why are we having this debate today? we are leading them because the crisis has shown once again how fragile the banking sector is. we have had market failures - yes, quite clearly, we have had irresponsible products on the market, we have had partly irresponsible management and accordingly irresponsible behaviour in this sector. but we also had government failure, we had misguided monetary policy, we had lack of regulation, and we had wrong regulation. in other words, there is a long debate about whether the crisis started in the banking sector and then spread to the public sector or vice versa. what is clear is that we must solve the crisis. the answer is the establishment of a european banking supervision. this is a necessary but not sufficient step in dealing with this crisis. i think we have to see this: we started strong here, but now the momentum seems to have weakened a bit. the commission has already announced that it will be setting up a bank supervision unit and a resolution fund. the supervision is now due to start in the second half of 2014 - that is over a year away - and the resolution fund is only due to be possible after a change in the contract. this means that the whole thing is returning to a situation that we had before the creation of the european banking authority. in other words, the member states are putting the brakes on the road. i think it's quite clear that if we want to break the link between bank debt and the burden on taxpayers, we need a very clear, predictable bail-in mechanism and not the chaos that we have in cyprus. and we need a very clear statement on how losses are shared in banks that go bankrupt. i believe that the resolution fund must therefore be a necessary part of this banking union.
blue-card question. – i actually have two questions. firstly, you complain about a lack of solidarity, although aid of about eur 10 billion has been given to cyprus, a country of less than one million people. i think that is proof of solidarity. do you agree with me? secondly, are you aware of the council of europe’s report that has just been leaked, concerning money laundering and the lack of effort on the part of the cypriot authorities to combat money laundering effectively? we are seeing some pretty dramatic figures online right now.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. good thing needs weil' so you could recall a german proverb. i remember that i myself pointed out in october last year that it would be impossible to complete the legislative work for the banking union by the end of 2012. and it was also right that we put quality before speed. that means the substance must be right, then you can come to a conclusion. it was right not to put us under time pressure. i've heard a lot about what we have to do. of course, it is clear that the banking union as it is now, the supervisory structure is only a first step. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful about two things. problem number one: this supervisory structure is now being created on a treaty basis which largely excludes the european parliament. we're just in the hearing! we have had participation rights only through the amendment of the eba basic regulation. and a european union which wants to take decisions of such far-reaching scope on a lasting basis as all that is demanded by our colleagues can only do so within the framework of a democratically legitimized procedure, namely the community method. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second problem i want to draw attention to is that we can solve many things only once we know what problems there are. that is why the common supervisory structure is the first step. it is only when this is established that you can think about further measures, because only when you know what you are dealing with can you take appropriate measures. it is therefore our task as the european parliament to ensure that these supervisory structures are put into effect quickly, that they do their job, that they disclose what is going on quickly, and that we develop the whole thing in a democratically legitimized process.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by addressing some of the points raised in the debate and then to make some more general remarks on the banking union. mr bufton said that the solution here was a 'one size fits all' solution. that's not exactly the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and we are now faced with two regulations which explicitly recognise the different treatment of different business models, different risk models and the diversity of the european banking system. parliament will ensure that the eba and the ecb take this seriously and do not treat everyone equally. a second question was put by mr schmidt, but also by mr nitras and many other speakers from outside the euro zone. you asked whether we should participate or not. of course, this is the sovereign decision of the countries that have not yet adopted the euro. but it is clear that there is a clear advantage in the colleges of supervisors not to be told by the ecb in the future what the majority opinion is, but to participate in the formation of that majority opinion within the ecb. the ecb is also a key player in the international monetary system, and the ecb is a key player in the international monetary system. it is in our best interests to join this common line. the focus of the whole debate - and i was pleased to hear that - was not on the mistakes we had made. in fact, there was very little detailed criticism of our two reports. there were some fundamental questions that you can understand very well: should this have been done under a different legal basis? there are arguments for that. we discussed that earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe is always a compromise, democracy is always a compromise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should not take this for granted here in parliament. but we must take seriously the fear that this will lead to an unlimited expansion of liability and that the next steps in the banking union will not be taken. there are a few fundamental things to say about that. firstly, the establishment of the banking union has always been a multi-step solution: first joint supervision and then further steps towards joint liability. the point is this: it was not about pooling the risks. the old risks must now be investigated as quickly as possible. any resistance to serious asset quality review and serious stress tests is prohibited in this situation. these tests need to be done quickly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but if there is joint supervision, then the next step must follow. the council and, above all, the commission have a great deal of responsibility in this respect. it is very important that the proposals for a common resolution regime now take place, not a network of national authorities but a real resolution authority. the nuances between your words, mr barnier, and those of the council presidency were clear. the opinion of parliament has been repeatedly that we want a common resolution authority and we want a common resolution fund, fed by the banks. i am counting on you, mr barnier, to propose both in the spirit of the community method!
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you to each and every one of you for your questions, your questions, your criticisms. i listen carefully to each and every one of you on this subject and it also feeds our own expertise and our own determination. what are the main obstacles in this complex negotiation? there are five of them, ladies and gentlemen. as regards the first point - which mr zwiefka raised first - some countries consider that the treaty does not guarantee sufficient protection of digital files in countries where the legal framework for copyright is weak. as regards the second point, some countries, in particular from the european union, request that the exception be possible to apply where the format in question is not already available on a commercial basis in the country of destination. i'll get back to you on that. thirdly, the european union is committed to the distribution of accessible formats by the associations of visually impaired people in the countries concerned, for reasons of efficiency and legal certainty. the fourth point - the one mrs lichtenberger raised - concerns technological safeguards. this is a sensitive subject for most delegations. we'll have to find some solutions. finally, the fifth point is the question of a possible exception to translation rights, which is also a sensitive subject. the european union considers that this point goes beyond what should be the scope of the treaty. our principle - and i say this to adam kòsa, whom i always listen to with interest - is that of equal access to works. no discrimination against them. no more and no less. i would like to return by telegram to the two main points which mr berlinguer, mr boştinaru and mr cofferati have just raised. the first is the european union's attachment to the possibility of verifying, before the exception is used, the absence of commercial availability in the country of destination. for us, for the european union, for the member states, this possibility would be a strong encouragement for publishers to develop spontaneously, if i may say so, their local offer in an accessible format. so it responds, in a way, to a certain logic. the second problem for the european union is the one mrs lichtenberger mentioned. the union remains committed to ensuring that the transnational exchange of accessible formats under the exception is carried out through intermediaries, in this case national associations of visually impaired persons. for the european union, ladies and gentlemen, this role of intermediary of the national associations would be a guarantee of greater efficiency, without being a bureaucratic obstacle. we want to avoid all bureaucracy, as i say to mrs wikström and mrs lichtenberger. what we want is a very clear text that is easy to use, as mr maštálka has asked for a moment ago, and our aim is efficiency. as regards crossborder distribution, the commission is sometimes criticised for promoting the prior verification of the non-commercial availability of accessible formats and, at the same time, for preferring the transmission of association formats to associations of visually impaired persons. but, ladies and gentlemen, these guidelines do not in themselves involve unnecessary bureaucracy. if the treaty sets out clear and simple conditions, as we are working on, these principles should not be an obstacle. on the other hand, i say as i think, because we are negotiating with other partners, that these principles would make it easier to reach an agreement because these points are important for the member states. i would like to echo the questions by mr romeva i rueda and mrs mazzoni on the export and import of special formats. our objective is simple: to enable associations of visually impaired people to export and import, without the permission of the rights holders, adapted formats for the people who need them. the current text should allow for an agreement on import conditions; it's simple enough and it doesn't cause any controversy. as regards export conditions, there are still very different views on this point. several options are on the table and we therefore have a lot of work to do with the member states between now and marrakesh. but we still have the same ambition, which is to establish a solid, easy-to-use legal framework for associations of blind people. we want to avoid bureaucracy, as i have said for the third time. we do not want to complicate this negotiation, which is already quite complex, as i say to mrs auken and mrs castex. mr sosa wagner raised the fear that there was too much of a restrictive approach to protecting publishers from the visually impaired, as if the visually impaired could be a risk... the european union supports the implementation of this treaty and this new exception; what we are negotiating is a first, a mandatory and globally harmonized exception. it is therefore perfectly legitimate for us to ensure that the introduction of this exception provides all the guarantees of legal certainty for all the parties concerned. mr becker and mrs stihler referred to the direct distribution of the formats accessible to the visually impaired individuals abroad. the commission is not in itself opposed to such direct distribution, but the member states have a clear preference for cross-border exchange through the double intermediary of blind associations. in this hypothesis, the visually impaired would receive the books, which come from abroad through or through their own blind association, in their own country. the european union supports this solution because it is easier for an association to identify and verify the eligibility of beneficiaries in its own country than in a foreign country and therefore, from this point of view, the application of the treaty would be simpler and safer. i now come back to the issue of non-discrimination, which has been raised by many, including mrs castex and mr cashman just now. what are the red lines of the european union's position? negotiations are under way. it is neither possible nor desirable to go into all the details of these red lines today. we want a targeted treaty, which aims at effectively solving the problems faced by the visually impaired. i am interested in this: that there is a concrete, practical, everyday result, i was going to say citizen, for the visually impaired, and our objective is to restore the equal treatment of visually impaired people in relation to the rest of the citizens. there is no reason to introduce exceptions other than those necessary to meet this requirement. finally, we are working - if i may say so - under a mandate given to us by the member states. mrs lichtenberger and mrs mazzoni asked for the contents of that warrant. it is for the council to answer that question. i am aware that the council has decided to give parliament access to this document, but for reasons of confidentiality of the negotiations it has not yet been made public. i have no problem with this objective of transparency. finally, i would like to return to the point raised by mrs lichtenberger concerning technological safeguards. we do not want technological safeguards to somehow destroy the useful effect of the treaty. the treaty must also not allow protection measures to be unlawfully undermined. i would remind you that some associations of visually impaired people in brazil, for example, have their own protection measures. that is why, if i may go into detail, we are in favour of the so-called variant b proposal, which guarantees that these technological protections will not hinder the objectives pursued by the treaty. finally, i would like to say to mr buşoi, as mrs guillaume and mr kósa have asked earlier, that we are doing our best. in a complex negotiation with many partners around the world, we are under the mandate of the member states, and i must of course take care with my services to preserve the trust attached to this mandate. we are working in concert with the associations of the visually impaired and that is why, whatever the expectations, the questions or the criticisms i receive, with a great deal of objectivity and clarity, i think it is very important that parliament confirms, before the irish presidency, which will be passing this on to the member states, that there is a real determination, which i understand and which i share in parliament, to achieve success in marrakesh. in any case, as far as i am concerned, with all my teams, we are mobilized to succeed in achieving this success in marrakesh and to bring this negotiation to a conclusion. (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i too have listened very closely and carefully to the various comments which have been made during this discussion, and we will be happy to report your views back to delegations at the appropriate level in council. as i said in my initial statement, it would not be appropriate for me to respond at this point to some of the substantive points that have been made here. the commission, as the commissioner has set out very well, is negotiating on behalf of the union and, therefore, will keep parliament fully informed of progress. i will, however, respond to a number of points: mr berlinguer, ms lichtenberger and ms regner are correct in that equal access is a right, not a charity, and i think that is a very important principle to reiterate. the treaty must not place undue burdens on organisations representing visually impaired persons when it comes to the cross-border transfer of accessible format works – that is clear. however, if it is to be effective, it must be quickly ratified and so must also take into account the legitimate concerns of rights holders, where they are legitimate, and that is obviously a key concern. regarding the comments also made by ms lichtenberger, ms mazzoni and ms regner on the mandate: the content of the negotiating mandate – the negotiating directive – is classified. obviously that ensures, or necessitates, a particular handling by the council and also by parliament. following a request from the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, klaus-heiner lehne, the coordinators of the political groups – and the rapporteur when appointed – will shortly be given access to that classified information. so that process is underway at the request of parliament, and i am pleased to be able to say that. so, as i stated earlier, the presidency will continue to support the commission in its work as it seeks to secure a positive outcome to the negotiations and one that corresponds to the mandate which it has been given. we will of course come back to you once we have a successful outcome to the negotiations and we will, at that stage, be seeking your consent to the agreement – which, of course, is the prerogative of parliament. so i hope – and i have confidence in my friend michel barnier and the commission – that we will have a positive outcome and that we will be back here and, hopefully, securing a positive view from parliament through the consent procedure in due course.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following: the request for an oral reply to the council on the implementation of the stockholm programme and the area of freedom, security and justice by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and mr carlo casini, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (2013/2617 ((rsp)) (o-000046/2013b7-0202/2013) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the implementation of the stockholm programme and the area of freedom, security and law by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, mr fernando juan lópez lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and mr carlo casini, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (2013/2617 ((rsp)) (o-000047/2013-0720).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would say that it is quite a stretch to allow ourselves to be offered the kind of advice that the commission and the council are offering to us as members of this house when it comes to evaluating their own work programme. the fact is that there has never been any kind of thorough and qualitative evaluation. that would be a blow to every minister in our member states. that is why he would be very happy about it, because it is an area which, if we look at the overall eu budget, is an expanding area. for example, mrs malmström, who is not here today, is faced with the cost explosion in this area when she initiates one new and, of course, particularly expensive security instrument after another, without having ever evaluated the other security instruments to see if they fulfil their purpose other than to procure new orders for the security industry. it is obvious that the commission and the council are not bothered at all by the fact that the cost of sis ii has been greatly exceeded. i 'd like to ask the last question ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i thank you very much, mr ehrenhauser. i'm sure mrs. ernst will thank you for the flowers from across the house. but my job is not to judge the value of contributions, but to distribute speaking time fairly evenly among colleagues.
member of the commission. − mr president, i believe it was benjamin franklin who in 1789 said that there is nothing in life more certain than death and taxes. here we are dealing with succession taxes, which deal with both death and with taxes. i would like to answer the question put by ms wikström on which states will tax property. the recommendation does not deal with this question, except to state that the global amount of inheritance tax should not exceed what the tax would have been had only one single member state been responsible for collecting the tax. the aim is to ensure that the overall level of tax on a given inheritance is not higher than the level that would apply if only one member state had tax jurisdiction over the inheritance. in layman’s terms this means that, provided the global amount of tax does not exceed what death tax would have been if only one member state were responsible for collecting it, it could be collected by three different member states. so we did not interfere as a commission in how many member states should collect, the tax but the global amount of the tax should not exceed the tax applicable in one member state. unfortunately, as we have seen (and i thank the members of parliament for their remarks), when you put together the two things which i mentioned – death and taxes – a huge number of legal problems arise. visiting the funeral house and multiple tax offices on the same day is not a pleasant experience, and the burden of cross-border inheritance tax can be crippling for citizens, owing to discrimination and double taxation. so small changes in member states’ rules to make them more coherent with each other could deliver real benefits for hundreds of thousands of european citizens across europe. the plan now is to see how the recommendation has been implemented in the different member states. i am authorised by commissioner reding to state that, if it turns out that these recommendations are not being implemented, we could pass on to the second stage of making legislative proposals. this could be of benefit to hundreds of thousands of european citizens across europe. this is what we aim to achieve. i hope the authorities in the member states make use of this year – the european year of citizens – as so many of you have remarked, to take steps in this area to improve the life of citizens at a particular sad moment in their lives.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to make the following statement. on 30 april 2008 the commission submitted a proposal for a recast of regulation 1049/2001. as this proposal was pending with the european parliament after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission submitted, on 21 march 2011, a second proposal, which was separate but complementary to the first one. the objective was to make the regulation compliant with the new treaty and the european charter of fundamental rights which, since the lisbon treaty, is legally binding on eu institutions when they propose laws and on member states whenever they implement eu laws. the first reading position, adopted by the european parliament on 15 december 2011, contains many amendments touching on parts of the regulation which the commission did not propose to modify. in the commission’s view, these amendments are not compatible with the interinstitutional agreement on recasting. the commission stated its position with regard to the amendments of the european parliament in its communication on the action taken on opinions and resolutions adopted by parliament at the december 2011 part-session. in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, the commission’s proposal and the first reading position of the european parliament are currently under consideration by the council. the next step in this procedure is thus the adoption of a common position by the council. in 2012 the danish presidency sought to achieve an early second reading agreement. the commission supported the efforts of the presidency. however, in the commission’s view, insufficient time was devoted to in-depth trialogue discussions between the institutions. the lack of sufficient time for discussion did not make reaching an agreement possible at that time. the commission remains open to a genuine discussion with both branches of the eu legislature on the review of the regulation. however, the commission insists on the need to strike the right balance between the fundamental right of access to eu documents, as set out by article 42 of the european union charter of fundamental rights, and the need to adequately protect other legitimate interests. this includes the need to protect other important public and private interests and to weigh other fundamental rights that may be affected.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents has become a never-ending story. why isn't this file moving forward? that is because the rapporteur is simply not prepared to be drawn in. like a defiant child, he insists on his position, demanding compromise from everyone else, but not from himself. he knows very well that his demands are against the rules and against the law. and of course that is not acceptable to the council and the commission - nor, incidentally, to me. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. it would ultimately increase the opacity. because that's how the really important documents go completely lost. if the essential information cannot be filtered out, then our citizens will eventually no longer understand europe and its institutions. do we want to? and at the same time, for example, our work here in the european parliament would be made impossible. if we had to record and publish every conversation that takes place in the ep, would the real conversations still take place in parliament? of course not! is this in the interests of our citizens? my group has always advocated that decision-making mechanisms and legislation at european level should be more transparent. of course, we also want very wide public access to documents. but we also know that we have to balance this access with the reasonable requirements of data protection and the space to think that is so urgently needed in the decision-making process. this is in the interests of all concerned. we have repeatedly expressed this in the difficult negotiations with the commission and the council. the rapporteur is not going into any of this. the report goes far beyond the objective of increasing transparency through improved access to documents for citizens. it takes up points which cannot be the subject of such a regulation, such as the publication of information from ongoing interinstitutional procedures, for example informal trilogue negotiations. but this would pave the way for access to the whole procedure, which would go far beyond access to documents and open the door to public influence by lobbyists, for example. we can't really want that! the protection of intellectual property, sensitive and personal data is also being disregarded. administrative procedures and decisions including personnel matters should be published. but we can't give up our privacy to the public. it is also important to ensure the protection of trade secrets and sensitive information in the context of licensing, judicial and competition proceedings. we must finally create added value for our citizens and accept the commission's proposal! i call on the rapporteur to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, it is a pity that the council is not present at the important discussion on the next steps, because the council has become the centre of this discussion at the moment, which is not something that we all particularly like, i must say. the fiscal pact has set a precedent in this respect. in this respect, there is - and there is no need to hide this - a more or less openly expressed distrust of the institutions on this issue. the commission's proposal is therefore a good one, and i hope that it will be adopted by the council. the central point, of course, is to say in advance that we urgently need more legislation elsewhere to have a functioning eurozone. our whole instrument is still based on the fact that we have essentially autonomous states which have to adapt to the needs of a common currency. but we have far too few community instruments to prevent this adjustment process from leading to deep unemployment and impoverishment in one part of the euro area and to an excess of free capital and possible inflationary pressures in other parts of the euro area. i would like to say that this is not the subject of our debate today, because we have been dealing with the issues that are currently on the table at the centre. so, where? there is no serious progress on all the issues such as a common unemployment insurance, macroeconomic stabilisers, strengthening the eu budget, also for reasons of macroeconomic stability. all this is not on the agenda at all, but it would be urgently necessary. we have not yet seen the social pillar, which the council has discussed, be filled with life. what i have learned from the discussions in the council is that not much has been left in the council's legislative practice, which is rather bleak, even of the more far-reaching plans which are still to be found in the blueprint. the two instruments we are really dealing with here are the ones that are still most alive, and i am also listening to you and, mr vice-president, i would be interested to hear what you have to say about the fact that ex ante coordination is no longer particularly alive in the council. i wonder how alive this baby is. will there really be legislation there? on the other question, the instrument for convergence and competitiveness, parliament is very clear about where we are going. we want the incentives to be clearly in the framework of the eu-community method, the objectives to be in the framework of the agenda 2020 that we have decided on here in practice, and we want to ensure that these things are not thrown into a kind of treaty law outside community law. democracy must be at the centre!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to say, at least from my personal point of view: i am already deeply convinced that we need greater economic integration. but i believe that economic integration will only work if it is accompanied by increased political integration, by increased fiscal integration. i think that is the problem we are dealing with at the moment. the council's previous handling of crises with the intergovernmental methodology, which was already criticised or at least criticised by jean-paul gauzès, has led to an increasing loss of confidence in the eu by citizens. many citizens now see the eu as an institution that is taking away their social security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that before we proceed with the necessary economic integration, we urgently need to talk to the citizens about how we can restore confidence and how we can take measures to stabilise their social security. i believe that without minimum social standards to accompany economic integration, the european union project will fail. i would regret it very much. i am german, i have a very intense relationship with the european union - it has something to do with my history. i would deeply regret if this project failed. i believe that this is a peace project based on economic integration. but she can't go at the expense of social security. if the citizens feel that they are the only ones paying in a crisis situation, then this project will fail. and i think we have to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say, in the light of the two previous statements: we would be in a much worse social situation without the euro. the euro forces us to be united, otherwise a number of countries would have gone bankrupt with disastrous consequences. the european union has prevented a new 1929 and has prevented the crash! but we're not doing it well enough. that is why we have the report, and i thank mrs bowles and the committee for it. that is why we must move forward on the question of ex ante coordination. i think that we've decided in the last two years, with a lot of instruments, that we should see how this really fits together and that we don't constantly invent new things and not include the old. what are we gonna do with six-pack, two-pack, whatever? what is being done? we've lost a little bit of context here. but i think it is good that the commission has come with two communications. i think that's good because it's going to drain our work as sherpas from an intergovernmental process. the more the commission submits in the legislative procedure, the more it is obliged to do so in community policy. the community policy should therefore be preferred. i think that the proposals put forward by president hollande are bad. i think they are bad because they are intergovernmental, because they create new institutions, because they do not involve either national parliaments or the european parliament, and because they are limited to the 17: we are a europe of 27 or all 27 who want to participate. we are not to create new frontiers and barriers in europe. i think that the european parliament has to decide where decisions are to be taken in these areas following the european semester, for example in the case of the country-specific recommendations we have to decide the guidelines in the codecision. the national parliaments must also have the right to ratify the agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is our duty to take special care of it. we must also ensure that it is not just about austerity but about structural change, not just about the labour market and social change, but that we achieve competitiveness through de-bureaucratisation, that the state institutions are able to develop projects that can be funded at european level. there is a lot of money available for greece, and the greek authorities cannot develop the projects. we must make sure that we are not just talking about youth unemployment. there's money for that. the structures for vocational training in spain must be improved. they had 30% youth unemployment at the height of the economy, because they simply don't have a vocational training system. these systems need to be improved! competitiveness and growth are only possible if the structures are for growth! the money you put into it will only have positive growth effects if the structures are in place. this is not just true of public money, but only where there are good structures for private investment to generate growth and jobs. from this ... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think it is important in the context of the mff in the negotiations that we try to discuss own resources and make progress here for overarching reasons. and i think the transaction record is a useful tool to do that, to provide that, along with the other positive effects of the transaction record. and i must say that my colleague timothy kirkhope, who is against the euro and has always fought this issue, naturally sees this with complete incomprehension. but i would like to make it clear at this point, mr rübig, that you have raised a good idea.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would firstly like to thank everybody for their contribution to this very substantive debate. let me start by saying that i agree with those such as mr gauzès, ms ferreira, mr giegold and mr klute who have stressed the importance of the social dimension of the european union as the essential element of the european social market economy and of the economic and monetary union. we are going to discuss that in the next debate under the next agenda item. secondly, as regards the statements of ms goulard and mr brok concerning the community method, the commission’s view is firmly based on the community method because we believe, from experience, that it is the only way to ensure truly sustainable policies and progress, as well as democratic legitimacy and political accountability. this implies bringing the current intergovernmental instruments into the community framework in due course. we also emphasise, in reference to mrs ford’s statement, that with the further development of the emu we must always ensure the integrity of the european union as a whole. let me also emphasise that in our view the guiding principle concerning the future of the economic and monetary union is that any step towards increased solidarity and mutualisation of economic risk will need to be combined with increased responsibility and fiscal rigour; that is, with a further sharing of sovereignty and deeper integration of decision-making. ms goulard referred to the fragmented nature of country-specific recommendations. i would like to stress that, in fact, we are also making a country-specific recommendation to the euro area, for reasons that are quite obvious. there are significant economic spillovers and a particularly strong interdependence between the member states of the euro area. that is why we want to provide policy advice to the euro area too, so that the eurogroup can discuss what the optimal and proactive policy mix is in order to promote recovery and create a foundation for sustainable growth and improving employment. mr giegold referred to the discussions in council. i agree that we expect the council now to discuss the ex ante coordination of major economic reforms and related financial solidarity mechanisms, and then subsequently to provide its input, hopefully positive and constructive. finally, a comment to mr eppink. while he is often quite funny with his verbal acrobatics, this time he is very off. making a comparison with brezhnev is both incorrect and inappropriate. it is simply a bad old joke with bad taste. can you not perform any better? are you out of ideas? the reason why i find it particularly inappropriate is that i have enough relatives in the graves of the fallen heroes of the winter war who paid the price with their lives to stop the red army and totalitarianism and to be part of european civilisation and western democracy. my grandfather served five years on the front. he told me after his experiences in the winter war and the continuation of war, ‘i spent five years looking to the east and since then i have looked to the west’. i personally look both to the west and to the east, and that is why i agree very much with mr klute with his wise words – wiser than yours, mr eppink – that the european union must be maintained and developed as a truly genuine peace project.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is collectively working, under the leadership of president barroso, to prepare proposals to strengthen the social dimension of emu. we are focusing in particular on the issues that are directly relevant to the effective functioning of the euro area, while fully respecting the broader general social agenda of the union as a whole – in other words, the eu27. in view of the protracted recession and high unemployment in many parts of europe, we must do whatever it takes to overcome the unemployment crisis. each european institution will need to work within its own mandate, and each member state will need to work both on its own challenges and jointly, as part of the union, on our common challenges. the eu’s proactive policy mix is focused on returning to economic recovery in order to create the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation. monetary policy is accommodative and is likely to remain so. in fiscal policy, consistent consolidation of public finances continues, though at a somewhat slower pace in the current economic context. structural reforms need to be pursued even more intensively, to allow new economic activity and jobs to emerge. active labour market policies are crucial, especially in combating youth unemployment. in this respect the youth guarantee scheme is an important initiative. regarding the social dimension of the economic and monetary union, our work concentrates on finding ways to better integrate it into the current structures of economic governance. for example, there is room to strengthen the surveillance of employment and social developments within the european semester framework. the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, together with its scoreboard, could be further developed for this purpose. while maintaining the structure and objectives of this procedure, the in-depth reviews could regularly analyse employment and social policies with a view to identifying those policies that best mitigate social problems and boost employment. the enhanced monitoring system could help better coordinate policies with a view to identifying and tackling major challenges in a timely and preventive fashion and better integrating employment and social concerns into the overall policy landscape. in addition, more can be done with regard to the effective allocation of available financial instruments at european level to help alleviate social distress in countries that are undergoing difficult adjustment processes. in this regard, ensuring that an adequate share of european social fund financing is devoted to tackling poverty and social exclusion is very important indeed. additionally, a number of features of the new structural fund programming could be directed to supporting the social dimension of emu. this could be achieved by better taking into account aspects related to emu adjustment when allocating and reprogramming funds aimed at financing labour and social policies in support of the implementation of the country-specific recommendations. finally, the deepening of economic and monetary union requires a genuinely integrated labour market. enhanced labour mobility within the whole european union is thus important for the efficient operation of the single market in order to achieve a better match between work and workers and a higher level of employment. reducing the cost of, and obstacles to, mobility across the eu would contribute, in particular, to tackling youth unemployment, which is highly concentrated in some countries and regions. the commission has already put forward important initiatives on this front. i count on your support and i also expect the council to support these initiatives. finally, we also believe that closer involvement and participation of the social partners in policy debates and decision-making processes is critical for the social dimension of emu. this is important not only to increase the ownership of policies but also to enhance the impact of policy coordination at euro area level. it is therefore vital that we invest in strengthening the social dialogue at both european and national level.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have rightly pointed out, commissioner rehn, that we must find ways out of the recession together and that it is necessary for the member states not only to announce but also to implement their cooperation. i am a supporter of the european semester. but we only have one chance if we can expand and intensify this. this is essential. and the european parliament has a major role to play in this, as the debate that has just taken place here has certainly shown. a robust economic and monetary union is the prerequisite for a functioning european internal market. in this case, contrary to what the edf has just said, there is indeed a stable internal and external value of the euro. it is a key building block for economic growth, business success and jobs. the emu ensures the availability of investment funds, including the sustainability of public finances and the financing of welfare and social protection systems. the crisis has taught us that the economy, the currency and social policy must form an effective triangle. one cannot exist without the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the two go together, we have to debunk so many ideological debates. our member states - all of them - need a significant reduction in public debt. but they also need reforms, even if these are initially felt by many to be painful. but if you feel that the money that you save is used for education, for training, for future orientation, then you can also pass through such difficult phases together. some countries have already completed the reforms, while others are still in the process of doing so. we can't keep pushing her away. that's important. we must make it clear to people that if you have precarious jobs, we want to say goodbye to them! if we have gains in prosperity, we must share them with those who live in poverty. we must give a chance to those who feel they are falling far short of the mark - the keyword is youth unemployment - with the right answer from us: a youth guarantee. we must make it clear to those who feel they are being left out of social progress: no, we have financial instruments which we have adopted together! we have the european social fund, which must not be reduced, commissioner! so emu is not just about competition between good companies that are successful on a global scale, and it includes sustainable finance. we also need sufficient space for proactive social policies in our member states. it is designed to take people with it - in education, training and the labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, we have just voted on the contents of the changes needed to the european banking authority (eba) in order to make it possible to give the european central bank the powers for the common banking union for which we have argued for a long time. unfortunately some of the member states are not yet ready with their ratifications, and my report on the eba changes is the lever to remain in control over marianne thyssen’s report on giving the european central bank powers on the common banking supervisor. therefore we have to shift the final legislative vote on my report in order to remain in control of the democratic process of this next large step of realising a common fiscal and banking union. therefore i ask for the postponement of the legislative part of the vote.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would love to be a vice-president of the european parliament. honourable members, i am more into firefighting than pyrotechnics but the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, ms roithová, for her work and efforts in processing this proposal. in the spirit of compromise and with a view to reaching a first reading agreement, the commission will not stand in the way of an agreement between institutions and therefore welcomes this compromise package and looks forward to its rapid adoption. however, the commission does have several concerns over the competence of the committee set up by this directive and has sent parliament a statement to this effect for the records of the plenary sitting.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to welcome the vote on duff and that is why i have spoken. but i heard you say that it was not allowed under the rules of procedure. i would ask you to clarify whether it is really possible that no explanations of vote may be given on an important legislative resolution which has been debated.
i have to say, madam president, i signed up for duff. i have sent it in writing with the parliamentary agenda, and duff is the first item on the explanations of vote!
i have to say, madam president, the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i must say that the world and the european union have never been so united in their efforts to combat tax evasion. i am therefore proud and happy that we, as the european parliament, have agreed to this, and i am equally pleased that the member states are now ready to say goodbye to the particularities of their past. this starts with banking secrecy, and it continues with data exchange. it is also moving towards tax harmonization, because tax abuse or fraud, or rather the grey areas, can only be exploited if there are differences between member states. i therefore ask all of us - by 'all' i mean the european parliament, of course, but also the commission and in particular the council - not to give up and to use this window of opportunity now to reach effective decisions.
i have to say, madam president, a great sudeten german writer, otfried preußler, wrote a wonderful book: "the little ghost". we have today, by a large majority, banished a great spectre, the spectre of the so-called klaus clause, which, for nationalist reasons and in opposition to the treaty of lisbon, has abused the fate of millions of displaced persons in order to achieve a disadvantage for the czech people in the charter of fundamental rights. i am glad that this disadvantage of the czech people in the area of fundamental rights has been avoided, not least because many czech representatives, together with sudeten german representatives - and this was also the signal of the sudeten german day last weekend - are in favour of finally removing this ghost of the past: the monster of nationalism. human rights are universal, human rights apply to everyone, unjust decrees are unacceptable!
i have to say, madam president, as always, even in such a report, light and shadow are always close together. the first positive thing is that the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed on a compromise in principle. the strengthening of central european banking supervision is an essential signal for greater coordination and provides greater security in financial markets. we also want a stronger separation between monetary and supervisory tasks. the ecb has, of course, set a balance sheet total of over eur 30 billion for systemically important banks that need to be supervised in the future. it is simply not clear where this limit comes from and whether it should not be set at eur 40 billion or eur 20 billion or eur 60 billion. it is therefore right and sensible that this report has not yet been adopted today, because there is still a huge need for advice.
i have to say, madam president, the report is not yet adopted, but we are on the right track. the alternative would have been to decide nothing at all and not to document the state of consultation at all. the european parliament has at least achieved a significant strengthening of the ecb's accountability and the parliament is endowed with rights of inquiry and inquiry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european central bank. we can also initiate a possible recall of the chairman. the ecb will therefore no longer be supervising the ecb behind closed doors. and that is a crucial advantage. it is not just about supervision and control and accountability, it is also, quite simply and profoundly, about democratic transparency. we shall continue to work along these lines. i wish our report success and hope for a final vote soon.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs de keyser has indicated that it is likely that another city will fall into the hands of assad's troops. we see that assad is obviously getting stronger. the russian policy of arms deliveries seems to be working. if i continue to see that the opposition is divided, that there will be fighting between these groups themselves and that only a limited part of it is in favour of democratic development, then, unfortunately for these practical reasons, we will have to deal more intensively with the refugee question in the long term, for whatever reasons. if it is the refugees today, it is the alawites who will have to flee, or the christians, if another side wins, so the issue of aid for humanitarian reasons is now of great importance in syria as well as in the neighboring countries. we will therefore have to do more, because of our inability, the inability of the international community to solve the problem itself, at least to mitigate the consequences of this conflict - in spite of all the good work that the european union is doing, more than anyone else, and also the work that your colleague, mrs georgieva, is doing on this issue. i think it is important to take this issue politically. when i look at the number of refugees in lebanon or jordan, it is also linked to the destabilisation of these countries. if the consequence of this flow of refugees is the destabilization of other countries and the continuation of the crisis, then we have a political problem that goes beyond the destruction of syria. of course, we must not forget turkey. but with her skills, she can handle it politically. we must support them in the same way, but the consequence of destabilising lebanon and jordan will be a greater global strategic problem if we do not do something about it. that is why we must look at the refugee question from a humanitarian and a political point of view.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the figures are tragic, they are impressive, and i think we should now really agree concretely on how we want to proceed from the european union. i looked at the latest figures, including the un estimates, and it shows that a quarter of the population is on the run. i am referring in particular to the inland population. and of course, it always hits those who are hit in such tragedies: three quarters of them are women and children. i think that the neighbouring countries will soon be unable to cope with this influx on their own. of course we must help these countries, especially since they are now also having problems internally. i would like to mention turkey in particular. the people are now putting pressure on their own government, not least since the recent car bombings in reyhanli. i think the european union must now stop arguing, it must now put pressure on the member states to accept refugees, especially the most vulnerable, namely women and children, and then - in the end - continue to provide financial and material aid. but first, we must help the women and children.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, developments in bosnia and herzegovina have not kept pace with our hopes and our expectations. we have a number of concerns, and i know that these are broadly shared by this parliament, as is reflected in the motion for a resolution which you will be voting on tomorrow. let me take this opportunity to particularly thank doris pack for the commitment and indeed the expertise and knowledge which she has shown as your rapporteur. here in particular the positive influence that you can bring to bear on current and future developments is very important. in december 2012, the council noted that some progress had been made in bosnia and herzegovina at the start of 2012 with the formation of a state-level council of ministers. it also welcomed the adoption of two key eu-related laws – the law on state aid and the law on population census. however, it is regrettable that the momentum brought about through these developments has not been maintained. we are particularly disappointed that progress generally on the eu agenda has stalled and that the use of divisive rhetoric has continued. also in december 2012, the council welcomed the launch of the european commission’s high-level dialogue on the accession process with bosnia and herzegovina’s political representatives, which took place in june 2012. however, the timelines of the roadmap forming part of this dialogue have not been met, and we remain concerned at the lack of implementation of the political agreements. one of the top priorities for bosnia and herzegovina is to bring its constitution into compliance with the european convention of human rights and the sejdić-finci ruling. we have to see evidence of serious moves in this direction before the stabilisation and association agreement can enter into force. completing the implementation of the sejdić-finci ruling is important. so too is the need for bosnia and herzegovina to demonstrate a satisfactory track record in implementing its obligations under the interim stabilisation and association agreement. these key elements are essential before the eu could realistically consider any membership application. the council has also underlined the importance of establishing an effective coordination mechanism for engagement with the eu, including for the effective use of the eu’s pre-accession assistance, as well as ensuring fiscal sustainability. furthermore, the state aid and population census laws now need to be fully implemented. we have reaffirmed our support for the structured dialogue on justice within the framework of the stabilisation and association process and have called on all the relevant authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to participate constructively in this process. the key is to ensure the consolidation of an independent, accountable, credible, impartial and efficient judicial system. this would benefit all citizens across the country. the eu intends to continue to strengthen its support for bosnia and herzegovina’s eu integration process. as part of this process it has reaffirmed its full support for a strengthened eu presence on the ground. but the political leadership in bosnia and herzegovina must intensify its efforts. existing commitments must be fulfilled and further work is required to bring greater stability and prosperity to the country. the leadership owes this to the citizens, who in turn deserve a better future.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first of all thank doris pack for an excellent draft report on bosnia and herzegovina. last year i told you that, when speaking about bosnia and herzegovina, it is difficult to be overly positive. unfortunately i have the same problem this year. as the draft report points out, progress has again been extremely limited. i am just as concerned about the political elite’s continued lack of a shared vision for the overall direction of the country. as the motion states, the country is ‘falling further behind the other countries of the region’. because of our concerns, the european union has increased its engagement with bosnia and herzegovina and increased political facilitation efforts at all levels. over the past few months, there has been considerable political and diplomatic activity in order to help solve the most pressing issues that the country needs to tackle: in a nutshell, to implement all the steps in the roadmap agreed by political leaders in june 2012, which are outlined in several council conclusions and also in the draft report. in april i went to sarajevo to discuss with the politicians the way forward on the sejdić-finci issue. because of the lack of any meaningful progress resulting from our facilitation process, i regrettably had to cancel the third round of the high-level dialogue on the accession process. i came back with the impression that some – the politicians – were more focused on the party and ethnic interests than on implementing the sejdić-finci judgement. the european union can only facilitate. it is up to the political leaders of the country to step up to the challenge with genuine commitment. in the current situation of political instability in the federation, it is difficult to find a genuine consensus on essential issues, which nevertheless remains vital. the accession of croatia will make bosnia and herzegovina a direct neighbour of the union. we are doing our utmost to facilitate this new status and make it a success for both sides. i have held two ministerial meetings with the foreign ministers of croatia and bosnia and herzegovina to this end, in addition to five technical meetings that my services have organised with both sides. despite the recurrent setbacks, we have reiterated that our continued engagement and support is available for those in the country who want to move things forward. our structured dialogue on the judiciary is bearing fruit. i understand that this house wholeheartedly supports this approach, which i appreciate very much.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we've postponed the debate here for four weeks, hoping that something positive will happen in the country in the meantime. this has not happened, unfortunately. nothing has changed for the better: there is no agreement in the sejdić and finci case. there is no functioning government in the federation. the president is in prison and he cannot even delegate his duties to another because the dayton treaty does not even allow it. that's why we have a federation that doesn't work. bosnia and herzegovina is in a desolate state, all in all. the politicians in brussels, as we have just heard from the eu, and in the country are doing everything they can to help the people there. the only problem is, they obviously don't want to be helped. that is why i have tabled an amendment which is intended to be a wake-up call to politicians. i know many in this house will not follow me. but i feel a duty to the people of bosnia and herzegovina and i see no other instrument to show the politicians the seriousness of the situation caused by their inaction. the freezing of membership for failure to comply with the judgment of the court of human rights has led me to make this request. and if we do that and if we demand that, then it does not affect a single citizen in bosnia and herzegovina, it puts politicians on notice, and rightly so! we cannot explain to our fellow citizens at home for long that we are transferring funds to bosnia and herzegovina - as you have also said - that we are so heavily involved there and the politicians down there are all playing around with us and giving us a long nose. i am very saddened to have to resort to the means of this request, because i have felt closely connected to the people of bosnia and herzegovina for 23 years. i wish the country was governed well, so that people have jobs, so that children have a future and all the displaced can return.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one has fought for bosnia and herzegovina with so much love and so much fighting spirit in recent decades as doris pack or the bishop of banja luka, bishop komarica, who is present here. i want to make it clear that when there is a cry for help like the one heard in the proposal by doris pack, it must be taken seriously. but we cannot answer this by making self-righteous speeches about corruption and inaction in the country, but we must think together about how things will go. some say we should retreat. i think that would be true to a certain extent, because we may have gone into too much detail. on the other hand, we have given this country in dayton, under american leadership, a structure that simply does not work. franz josef strauss famously said that if you have buttoned a jacket wrong, you have to unbutton it again to button it right. we need a constitutional reform. we need a federation of three peoples with equal rights. we need to strengthen local authorities, self-government and the training of a new young leadership. all these tasks must be tackled by us, because we have contributed to bringing the country into the current crisis. but not only must we not turn away, but of course the people of the country themselves must not. we cannot solve it from outside, but the power of renewal must come from within the country itself.
question on the procedure for the 'blue card' to libor rouček. i would just like to ask mr rouček: in five and a half weeks' time croatia will be a member of the european union. do you see opportunities for crossborder cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina, especially in critical border areas such as posavina or banja luka and other regions, that we can help to promote the reconstruction of croatia there, if croatia is in the eu?
member of the commission. − mr president, sometimes i am sorry about not following the prepared text. i hope i am not going to be sorry at the end of this attempt. the honourable member who raised the issue of the free movement of workers is not here. i am not going to refer to him by name. usually i try to avoid predicting and giving any kind of dates concerning the enlargement process. i try to avoid doing that. may i have an exception today? i hope colleagues will excuse me. bosnia and herzegovina has not yet applied for membership of the european union. if the conditions are right, i can foresee that happening in a couple of months. it is really in their hands. then the council needs to consider it. there should also be a track record of the stabilisation and association agreement. they will ask the commission to prepare an opinion. then, if everything goes well, we might propose opening accession negotiations. there might be some delays because there might be some key priorities still to overcome. we open accession negotiations; we carry out screening for one year; then comes an additional four or five years of negotiations and two years for the ratification process of the accession treaty. plus, let me remind you that the member states have the possibility of protecting their internal market for up to seven years against the free movement of workers. if everything goes well, 17 years from now. that needs quite a vision, a strong vision to foresee the problems in 17 years. by the way, somehow i do not see them, based on the experience that we have had. also with the country i know the best, in the united kingdom, where i served as ambassador for a short period of time. three points. we have a responsibility and commitment to bosnia and herzegovina: 1995, dayton. we imposed this agreement on them. we have a commitment, and that dayton agreement was the best framework for them, to impose peace on bosnia and herzegovina. the time has come to think about another framework, one for actually transforming bosnia and herzegovina. enlargement is the most powerful transformation instrument we have. it is not dayton, it is enlargement. it is through enlargement that we will be able to tackle a number of those issues you are complaining about and that we, the commission, complain about. we need to help them pass over that bridge to the european union enlargement process. that bridge is, by the way, called for the time being sejdić-finci, but i will come back to that. second, it is important to see what is going on in the region. we are moving the external border of the european union to bosnia and herzegovina. the rest of the region is moving. the deal between belgrade and pristina shows that if there is a will there is a way in the whole region. it shows how important this european perspective is and how much potential there is in this enlargement as a transformation instrument. so we need to help bosnia and herzegovina, which remains the only country outside in the cold and still within the dayton framework while the rest are moving within the eu framework. now the third element. sometimes we tend to refer to sejdić-finci as actually being the only obstacle to the application to join the european union. this is not the case. sejdić-finci is actually the reason why we do not still have implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement, because on the very second day after this agreement entered into force, we would have to start infringement proceedings. bosnia and herzegovina is not living up to its international commitments, and we need to make this clearer and clearer. this brings me to your report, your motion for a resolution and also the amendment to it. i am not going to get into the debate on whether one or two specific proposals are the right ones. but do i agree that the time has come to sound the alarm for bosnia and herzegovina? yes, the time has come. and while i have heard many of you referring to this amendment and saying you would not support it, i have not heard any alternatives from you. i have not heard any proposals on how to allow bosnia and herzegovina to live up to its international commitments. there are going to be parliamentary elections next year. what are we going to do then? what if we have another parliamentary election in bosnia and herzegovina without it delivering on the decision and the verdict of the european court of human rights? what are we going to do then? are we going to ring the alarm bell then? the time has come now, not to threaten, but to make two things very clear: you need to tackle the verdict of the european court. you need to align your constitution with that decision because otherwise, not only will you not be able to apply to join the european union, you will be in breach of your international commitment, and this has consequences, including on the provisional application of the saa interim agreement. the second clear message from us is that we are here to help because we are your partners. we have already shown how serious we are in helping you to cross that bridge. ok, if this has not been enough, we from our side will double our efforts, but we need that common vision on your part, because in the end it will be you delivering on the expectations of your citizens.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you for what i think has been, certainly a bleak debate in the sense of our collective sense of disappointment, but also i think, a very constructive and helpful debate, at least from the point of view of the council, and, i am sure, likewise for the commission. i just want to restate that the eu is absolutely unequivocally committed to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, and i think we have to step back a little bit and recall the fact that any european country is entitled to join the european union once it fulfils the criteria. so it is not a question of any current member state of the eu determining whether or not another country can join, or is european, or whether we should enlarge the european union. it is a fact that we are committed. we are particularly committed to the european perspective for the countries of the western balkans: not just because of our commitments under the thessaloniki declaration – which, by the way, we will mark with a special presidency conference in dublin this friday, which the commissioner and others will attend – but also, as commissioner füle has pointed out, because of our commitments, and not just our commitments, but our responsibility as partners arising out of the dayton agreement. i think we really have to reflect on the fact that, as an international actor, and as european neighbours and partners, we have a responsibility to all the countries of the western balkans, and particularly to a country like bosnia and herzegovina, which has been so divided and which still has so much of a challenge and so many obstacles to overcome in order to bring its people together and ultimately to be reunited as part of the european family. the eu, as i said in my introductory remarks, will continue to assist the country. we will strengthen our presence on the ground, and that is a clearly-stated commitment. but i agree with many members, including the rapporteur ms pack, and ms bozkurt and mr kukan and many others, who have said that responsibility for progress with bosnia and herzegovina lies with its leaders and its own institutions. that is always the case. i think the eu can be a helpful, constructive and engaged partner. but we cannot substitute for the actions that are required by the political leadership in that country. reforms are crucial, and these are reforms – contrary to the suggestion in one intervention – which are very firmly based on our system of values, values deriving from respect for democracy, human rights, minorities and the rule of law. they are the values upon which the european union is based, and it is right and proper that we work with, and encourage, our partners, our fellow europeans (albeit outside the european union) to aspire to implementing those values in their domestic situation, for the good of their citizens. i make no apologies, and i do not believe that too many people in this chamber will make apologies for insisting on the pursuit of those common and shared values. key eu-related reforms are essential, not just because we are calling for them, but because they are genuinely in the interest of the country and its citizens. the point has been well made that this is not an overnight process, and we have nothing to fear. it is ten years at this stage since croatia embarked on its journey towards eu accession, and thankfully, croatia will formally join us on 1 july. the other countries of the region are making progress, most notably – and we debated it here in this chamber just a couple of weeks ago – serbia and kosovo. i think the work of the high representative and commissioner füle and many members of this parliament has to be complimented for the dedication and the persistence that led to that agreement. there is still a long way to go for all the other countries of the western balkans, but we are determined to make progress and to deliver on the commitment that we have made to our fellow europeans. i mentioned that we will have a conference in dublin marking the thessaloniki declaration this week. i think it is a good opportunity for us as europeans to reflect. yesterday in one of the debates that we engaged in here in plenary we talked about the fact that we can always aspire to utopia and to ideal circumstances. but i think that, in the case of enlargement – particularly with the western balkans – we have to remember where we have come from. we have to remember the bloodshed, the war, the tragedy that occurred on our own doorstep a very short time ago, and how much progress has been made in the region generally. that progress, whether it is croatia or montenegro or the other countries which are, slowly but surely, making their way on the path to eu integration, will – and can, i am certain – inspire similar progress in bosnia. yes we are frustrated, yes we want to see leadership, but i am absolutely convinced that we can and will deliver on that. i want to thank parliament for your engagement on this. i think the work – the sometimes silent work – of rapporteurs, of people who genuinely engage with individuals, with civil society, with political parties, at government level, is hugely valuable and continually reinforces the message of the need to reform and the great rewards that are available for citizens and for the country as a whole. on ms pack’s proposed amendment to suspend bosnia and herzegovina’s membership of the council of europe in connection with the echr, we do not have a council position on this, so i suppose i can simply speak personally. i very much understand where you are coming from. i fully agree that there have to be consequences, but, on the other hand, i think the court of human rights has to be the point of recourse for citizens to have their rights vindicated. i have a concern that it may perhaps be a counter-productive measure as regards its outcome, but i am certainly willing to hear more from parliament on that. i want to thank parliament again, and to reflect and remind ourselves of how important it is for all of the eu institutions to work together and to continue with this constructive engagement. i think we know at this stage that the solution that has been offered to bosnia and herzegovina through the dayton agreement initially, and indeed even through our engagement at eu level on the path to european integration for the country, is not working. i think we have to listen to the genuine suggestion from a number of members – mr rouček and mr posselt and others (the commissioner, too, has just mentioned it) – about the genuine need for constitutional reform. i very strongly believe that we have to go down that road now. there is a need for a new approach for bosnia and herzegovina. i think there is a consensus here in the chamber, and we need to find a new path, one that respects all the communities – people of different backgrounds – and helps the country to break out of the political deadlock that we have seen for too long. so more work needs to be done by the commission, the council and parliament, and i look forward to working closely with all of you to achieve that.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very grateful for this opportunity to set out the council’s position on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would also like to thank this parliament, and your rapporteur, richard howitt in particular, for his valuable work on the issue and for your excellent resolution. both institutions very much share the same assessment of the situation, and that helps us collectively in our ongoing contacts with the authorities in skopje. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country since december 2005 but of course has had very close relations with the eu since well before then. the country is important in the region, being fully involved in regional initiatives such as the regional cooperation council and the south-east european cooperation process. in its conclusions on enlargement from december 2012 the council welcomed the progress made in a number of key policy areas. these included the legislative framework for elections, freedom of expression, and public administration. the council also took note of the review of the implementation of the ohrid framework agreement and, as you do in your resolution, encourages the government to move swiftly to the next stage of the review. the high level accession dialogue (hlad) has acted as a catalyst for reform. this momentum has to be sustained, and particular attention is needed in the area of the rule of law, including on issues such as freedom of expression, the fight against corruption and inter-ethnic relations and reconciliation. the council largely shared the commission’s assessment that the political criteria continue to be sufficiently met and took note of its recommendation that accession negotiations be opened with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. however, maintaining good neighbourly relations is essential, and that has to include a negotiated and mutually-accepted solution to the name issue, under the auspices of the un. i know this parliament shares our view that the long-standing discussions on the name issue should be brought to a definitive conclusion as soon as possible. the council has welcomed the momentum generated by the greek proposal for a memorandum of understanding. there has also been some positive progress in discussions between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and bulgaria. with a view to a possible decision on opening accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the council invited the commission to report on progress. last month the commission presented that report, which assesses progress on the implementation of eu-related reforms (under the high level accession dialogue) as well as in the area of good neighbourly relations and specifically on the name issue. the main conclusion of the commission’s report is that the reform process is largely back on track after the political crisis of january-february. relations with neighbours remain good, and there have been some positive developments in bilateral relations with bulgaria and greece. formal talks on the name issue under the auspices of the un have also made some progress during the period covered by the report, which also emphasised the importance of the timely implementation of the political agreement of 1 march 2013. the council is now considering the commission’s report, with a view to further discussion at the june general affairs council. ireland, as holder of the eu presidency, will facilitate discussion of the report and will seek to see the issue progress. in the meantime, it is vital that the political leadership in the country sustains and develops the eu integration process, despite the difficult background and circumstances. i know that parliament shares this view and that you will use your contacts to help achieve this.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to pay tribute to the quality of the report which has been prepared by your rapporteur, richard howitt. i welcome the supportive stance you have taken towards the country’s efforts in the accession process. i also share your concern about the risk of prolonging the status quo. for the purpose of today’s debate, let me recall the main conclusions of the commission’s spring report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. first, the implementation of reforms is ongoing. at the latest meeting of the high-level accession dialogue held in skopje on 9 april 2013, we noted that action had been taken in relation to almost all the dialogue targets. secondly, steps had also been taken on good neighbourly relations, particularly with bulgaria and greece. we were also encouraged by the fact that formal talks on the name issue took on a new momentum in april 2013 with another proposal from the united nation secretary-general’s special representative which he hopes can lead to a breakthrough. having said this, i remain deeply concerned by the follow-up to the political crisis which affected the country last winter. an agreement was reached on 1 march 2013 to overcome the crisis. this allowed the opposition, sdsm, to return to parliament and participate in the recently held local elections. however, other elements of this agreement have not yet been fully implemented, in particular the setting up of a committee of inquiry into the events of 24 december 2012, which should make recommendations to avoid a recurrence; the signature of a cross-party memorandum of understanding confirming the will of all parties to continue on the european path; and the resumption of media dialogue with their association of journalists. while efforts are continuing to get the committee of inquiry up and running, results have been slow; these delays and the limited political dialogue between the parties raise doubts about their commitment to fully implement the 1 march 2013 agreement. i conveyed this message very clearly to prime minister gruevski. serbia’s and kosovo’s historic agreement has injected new momentum into the enlargement process. this is an opportunity that the region and other countries should not miss. the serbia-kosovo deal shows that, where there is political will, a solution can be found. as we know in the european union, in such instances compromise can lead to greater rewards.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i was present here in strasbourg when president boris trajkovski presented the application for accession of macedonia during the last irish presidency of the council. it was many years ago. can you imagine that now negotiations are being opened with, for example, serbia and macedonia is still blocked because of the arbitrariness of two neighbouring countries? can we accept that, or do we not have to take strong action?
mr president, as co-chair of the joint parliamentary committee (jpc) of the european parliament and the sobranie, let me congratulate you on yet another positive report. for the first time our colleagues from skopje are here in strasbourg to attend the 11th jpc at the moment and to follow this debate on richard howitt’s report. i would like to welcome especially my co-chair kenan hasipi. last december, only two months after the positive commission progress report, we experienced a major political crisis in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the opposition was kicked out of the plenary, journalists had been expelled previously, and voting took place without their presence. the whole political process was disrupted due to parliamentary blocking for many weeks. we have been following the developments very anxiously in brussels and in europe, and the eu has made tremendous efforts to act as a mediator between the parties. on 1 march 2013, an agreement was achieved thanks to an eu mission by parliament’s former president jerzy buzek, richard howitt and commissioner füle. congratulations, especially to the commissioner for his commitment and his tough tone, which led to the 1 march agreement and calmed the situation. our rapporteur mr howitt postponed the vote on his report as he feared that the vote could turn out negatively for the country. i respect his decision. moreover, the jpc was also postponed. this was a sign of mutual respect. parliament, i think, and our colleagues were extremely tolerant in allowing us to use this time-out instrument, but this measure can only be an exceptional approach. let us continue to work hard, keeping the country on the european track. it is in our common interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. macedonia has been waiting since 2005 for the start of negotiations with the european union. in the meantime, croatia is preparing to join, montenegro is negotiating, and macedonia is facing a series of obstacles on its way to the european union. and it's not like i just heard that it's not ready, that it's not ready, that it doesn't meet the conditions. it was confirmed today by mr füle, it was confirmed today by mrs creighton. if, unfortunately, nationalist tendencies have been manifested in macedonia in recent years, this cannot be ruled out. and it is not excluded that this could also lead to the re-emergence of ethnic tensions. but that is only because the problems from the neighbouring country keep coming up. that is because for the last 20 years we have heard the same refusal of all questions, above all because of the name. this is simply not something we can tolerate. it is not a question of the un whether the name is now being mentioned or not. it's a question of the neighboring country that caused the un not to use that name. you just have to say it once. and the fact of the name has prevented it from joining nato, it has prevented it from starting negotiations with the eu. all these are obstacles that we should not accept, but we can do nothing about. there is only one thing that can change this: the neighbouring country. i would also like to appeal to the macedonian government to renounce all nationalistic tendencies and not to give rise to reactions from the two neighbouring countries. but all three must disarm! you can't always just look back on history, you have to go into the future. i therefore very much hope that the greek government will find the means to finally accept the name now or to find an acceptable name. a small, peaceful neighbour cannot harm either bulgaria or greece. we can all succeed. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have to ask you, mr. president. you are greek! greece must ask itself why this is happening now. the other countries that joined did not have a neighbouring country, greece. (the speaker agrees to answer a further question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you completely. it is much easier for the two prime ministers of macedonia and greece to find a way of working together than it was for pristina and belgrade. so if they have succeeded, i would say that the member state greece must be able to avoid putting obstacles in the way of the non-member state macedonia and help this small country to join the european union.
blue-card question. – are you saying that the greek communist party is opposing the entry of macedonia into the eu because you want to protect macedonians from imperialist exploitation?
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, at a time when the european economy faces very difficult challenges, it is essential that our efforts are focused on measures which will concretely help to boost economic growth, restore confidence and create new and much-needed jobs. this will continue to be the top priority of the irish presidency. an ambitious trade agenda, covering trade in goods and services and investment, is a key element in delivering growth and employment. it is estimated that the completion of the various free trade negotiations currently under way would lead in the medium term to an overall increase of 2% in growth and to the creation of over 2 million jobs. and job creation is not simply a measure of economic success, although that is, of course, important; it is also about restoring purpose and dignity to those in our society who want to work but cannot find a job. this is why the conclusion reached earlier this year with the us on the mutual benefits of a comprehensive trade agreement, and the subsequent presentation by the commission to the council of a draft negotiating mandate, is very welcome. a free trade agreement with the us will boost trade, open up markets for european exporters, help create jobs and stimulate competitiveness. the transatlantic trade relationship is vital to europe’s prosperity. some eur 2 billion is traded in goods and services every day, and this trade is responsible for approximately 15 million jobs. the impact assessment report prepared by the commission on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) estimates that the agreement, once fully implemented, would boost the eu economy by about 0.5% of gdp. the overall objective of the eu’s common trade policy is to promote open, honest trade based on effective international regulations which are beneficial to the eu and to the entire international community. we achieve this through discussions within the framework of the world trade organization (wto), as well as through bilateral and regional trade negotiations. negotiations on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership would complement multilateral negotiations, in particular on those issues falling outside the remit of the doha development agenda (dda). the presidency is absolutely committed to reaching a rapid outcome within the council on a decision authorising the opening of negotiations and on a mandate to the commission. on 17 april 2013, minister richard bruton organised an informal meeting of trade ministers which focused on the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership. we were very pleased that the ministers were joined on that occasion by both mr vital moreira, chair of your international trade committee, and mike froman, former us deputy national security advisor for international economic affairs. that meeting was extremely useful in helping us to focus on how we take the process forward and in encouraging a strong shared sense of commitment to reaching a rapid outcome. i think it was also a sign of the very high priority which the irish presidency attaches to this issue. i am grateful to parliament for your continuing support for the development of eu-us trade relations, and very thankful to professor vital moreira in particular for his personal commitment to this very important project for our citizens. we pay close attention to your views on this issue and share the emphasis which you have put on the need to strengthen and deepen the eu-us economic relationship. we take the view that we must capitalise on what we have already achieved and further exploit the existing potential of the transatlantic economic and business relationship. this would send a strong signal that, even at a time of serious economic difficulty, both our economies are prepared to extend and open markets rather than protect them. this would also send a clear message to our other global trading partners. the commission’s proposal for a mandate for a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is being discussed in the council. obviously some detailed work is required, not least given the extensive range of interests and issues which this touches on. our aim is to reach agreement on the mandate on 14 june at the foreign affairs council, which will be dedicated to trade issues. as soon as the negotiating directives are adopted, the council will inform the european parliament, in line with our obligations under the treaty. i very much look forward to our discussion this evening and particularly to hearing your views on this very important topic.
member of the commission. − madam president, from the outset, let me underline the importance of this parliament’s interest, commitment and contribution to preparations for negotiations of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. i thank professor moreira, as rapporteur for the inta committee, for the work done so far. since our last debate in october 2012, you will have been pleased with the final report of the high level working group. the elements that were important to you are in it. the commission broadly welcomes the draft resolution that you have prepared in the context of the mandate discussions. it is constructive, and i see it as firm support towards launching negotiations along the lines of the high level working group report. our objective for the negotiating directives is to have a broad text that gives us the necessary negotiating flexibility. otherwise, we will never be able to obtain concessions from the americans as well. this means we should at all costs avoid taking issues off the table before negotiations even start. but let me be clear: this does not mean that there will be no red lines during negotiations. no fundamental eu policy is to be traded away. cultural diversity, as enshrined in article 167(4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, is a guiding principle of the commission’s actions, including in the context of trade. the commission is fully committed to defending this policy in the ttip negotiations. let me be crystal clear with respect to audiovisual services and, in agreement with commissioner vassiliou, signal what our red lines will be. firstly, the eu and the member state measures in support of their audiovisual sector can be maintained and will not be subject to negotiations. the eu and the member states will retain the policy space to promote cultural diversity, for example through subsidies, tax incentives, etc. this will of course also include the development of new instruments to finance cultural works. this applies, in particular, to cinema and public broadcasting. secondly, no one will touch the existing quotas or the necessary policy space to adjust our policy in view of the technological change; but, on the other hand, we do not believe there could be a serious argument in favour of increasing such space, for example by reserving the right to forbid foreign movies and tv programmes, for example, on video-on-demand services. thirdly, we acknowledge that the main challenge in the future to support europe’s audiovisual sector is to address the evolution of digital technology. the eu and the member states will need policy space to do this. we will reserve the necessary policy space to regulate at the eu level in order to adapt our policies to technological evolutions in the audiovisual sector. we believe that a full-scale exclusion of audiovisual services from eu commitments in the ttip negotiations is neither necessary nor justified. having red lines does not mean taking entire areas off the table before negotiations have even started. we are deeply convinced that there are more workable solutions than fully excluding the audiovisual sector while still preserving those red lines. the european parliament cannot credibly push for certain important sectors of eu interest, as mentioned in the resolution, and at the same time plead for an exclusion of audiovisual services. let me insist that we need to see the broader picture. i think we all agree that these negotiations will be a unique opportunity to make a difference. this deal could create a tremendous impact on jobs and growth on both sides of the atlantic without costing a cent of taxpayers’ money – which is something to highlight in more critical constituencies. if we add to this the fact that safety, health and environmental standards will under no circumstances be lowered, we should have what it takes to convince those who may still have doubts. now that the process towards launching negotiations is under way both in the us and on our side, what we need above all is strong and continued political will from us all. continued political focus on delivering results across all areas is the single most useful recipe for success. this negotiation is too big to fail, and we all have enough things on the table to benefit from it. let us build on this. i count on your continued constructive support in that direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. after more than 20 years and after a lot of preparatory work at all possible levels, we finally see, i would say, a concrete opportunity to start negotiations on a comprehensive free trade agreement between the european union and the united states. we all here in parliament welcome the negotiations and the start of negotiations. we are all basically on the same page here. the basic idea is there, but there's a lot of details to be worked out. i have observed from many years of experience here in parliament that all the institutions now play a new role. today i spoke by telephone with a high-ranking government official in berlin, who said: 'yes, we are going to do something about it now. we must know what they are going to do in brussels. the council is playing a new role by giving something back. the commission must play a new role, effectively facing a sometimes boisterous european parliament. and the european parliament is playing a new role. i've talked about this several times. i look forward to months and years of cooperation and open cooperation with the commission. we are currently enjoying a great deal of attention in the public media everywhere. i hope that will continue to be the case for the next few months and years. there's nothing worse than when we start somewhere and then suddenly we're back in the quiet corner somewhere. i will now quote an american voice: "in the end it's about the big picture, not about the small print". i think we can all emphasize that in this house. let's work on making the big picture a beautiful picture!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the social democrats want the trade agreement with the united states, particularly in view of the fact that we are serious about taking the approach of reindustrialisation forward in the european union. it is therefore sensible to look at where we have markets for our industrial products and where we can also create employment. so yes, we want an agreement that will strengthen reindustrialisation in europe! but we are also very aware that when we negotiate with the united states, we are of course negotiating with a partner who is shaped in many areas by different traditions and ideas which are quite contrary to our traditions and ideas. i would just like to mention the precautionary principle in the area of consumer protection and food, where we have developed quite different approaches, or the area of data protection, where in europe we naturally say that this is an individual fundamental right that must be safeguarded, where the partners across the atlantic have different ideas. the commission has also been very active in the field of cultural diversity, and we have developed a very specific strategy to support cultural diversity in europe. and last but not least - and i am a social democrat - the question of workers' rights is of course a very important one, since we in europe have developed a specific culture of social dialogue and have also developed a canon of industrial relations, based on the conventions of the international labour organisation, which is very different in the united states. there are also certain red lines which we would like to have secured in such a negotiation process. it is also clear that the commission must have sufficient flexibility to negotiate. and in such a negotiation process, it is also important not to lose sight of the goal. i am more inclined to say: let us seek the low-hanging fruit - the question of tariffs and standards - and not so much want to solve everything, especially in the face of different traditions and ideas. i would remind you that the negotiations with south korea have lasted four years, and with canada have also lasted four years and are still not concluded. let us try to put our best interests first and then finally succeed in creating jobs in europe.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to ask mr jadot two questions: are you accusing the council representative of lying here in this parliament? and do you not think that the adoption of the resolution by a majority of this parliament tomorrow is a democratic choice that we are making together, with a probably fairly solid majority?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they are demanding a mandate for negotiations with the united states which de facto does not impose any limits. the negotiations will take place at a time when the impact of the eu's wide-ranging crisis on tens of millions of people is at its worst. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the concerns of the population are well known: genetic manipulation in agriculture, threats to cultural diversity, the selling out of data protection, the reduction of consumer and worker protection, ecological production criteria and energy costs, a new acta experiment, wage policy and collective agreements and other issues. yes, it is about standards and regulatory structures. the council, the commission and the majority of parliament today, by ignoring these concerns and failing to give a strong mandate, are only showing that they have learned nothing from acta. i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter. we measure every agreement by whether it serves the interests of the people and leads to social and environmental progress and the democratic integration of the societies concerned. the commission, on the other hand, is announcing that it will use these negotiations to adapt the rules and laws in europe and the usa, thus establishing global rules. if the commission continues to take this approach, further deregulation will destroy the european achievements. i say this clearly and unambiguously: a bilateral eu-us deal, bypassing the multilateral trading system, will not solve the problems of today and tomorrow. i would like to ask you to support our group's amendments.
i have to say, madam president, for many years the european parliament has been calling for us to finally put our trade relations with the united states on an even better footing. i think that it is a great success for the european parliament, but also for you, commissioner, that we are on the right track to launch these negotiations this summer. i hope we can be transparent in these negotiations. i do think we should learn from the way we have negotiated in the past. i believe that in the last two years you have given us, in the committee on external trade, sufficient information on many subjects. and i hope that at last our colleagues, mr jadot, who have repeatedly denied this, will stop making up stories. the european commission has given us a lot of information. we have, of course, received the negotiating mandate. you could have read it if you were interested, because we received it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i feel well informed. i believe that the european commission has also informed us very well on many subjects in recent years. the contents: if we have a trade volume of 700 billion euros a year, if we still have an average tariff of 3%, then you can see that we can relieve our economy and therefore our consumers and our citizens of over 20 billion euros in a single day, not to mention the administrative burden, which is at least twice as high, if i think of common standards that can move us forward. i am thinking in particular of future legislation: how will the european commission manage to coordinate better with the us administration in future when it comes to new legislation? i hope that future legislative proposals will be voted on in advance. i hope that we can learn from this in the european parliament. how can we make better use of the transatlantic dialogue of members of parliament so that legislators on both sides of the atlantic can come together and we can prevent new barriers to trade? in this sense, i am pleased that we should be able to start negotiations in june. i wish you every success and i hope above all that these negotiations will be brought to a successful conclusion not on st nimmerlein day but, if possible, during your term of office! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear yannick, you can't be for or against. there are friends of ours who have already published this negotiating mandate. it was already published in various journals on the american side. but that is precisely the point i am criticizing. what does it do to the citizen to read such a negotiating mandate? we have a representative democracy for good reasons. we have a responsibility as members of parliament. the aim is to inform the public about the content of the negotiations. i would like the commission to inform before each round of negotiations, as it has done in the past, and to inform after each round of negotiations. that's what's always happened in the past. perhaps the media should do a better job of getting this information out to the public. we should stop accusing the commission of lack of transparency where there is none. (the speaker agrees to answer a further question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! the citizen of the european union is a very wise citizen. i am very sure that a large majority of the citizens in my home country and a large majority of my voters trust that we in politics do our homework. i know that a large number of citizens in europe do not want to deal with such issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is that how a trial works? and, mr bütikofer, does it help that you are now making several interim appeals here, when you cannot even make your case within your group, which is actually in favour of such an agreement?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i see the opening of negotiations on ttip with mixed feelings. as a green transatlantic, i welcome the opportunity that this venture presents. as a green transatlanticist, however, i must also point out the risks of allowing one-sided lobby interests to take over this political initiative. that is why we greens will join with consumer and environmentalists and trade unions here and in the united states to defend the necessary red lines, such as against genetic engineering or against investor-state dispute resolution regimes. our main demand today is for much greater transparency! why do u.s. congressmen have more information rights than members of this house? why should ttip be less transparent than nafta was years ago? commissioner, you must reach out to civil society or you will fail!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this agreement is of great political and economic importance to us. in a world of dramatic change, to have the benefits of a combination of american and european interests means growth with growth jobs. and it means, above all, that together, because of the changes in this world and the demographic evolution, we have the opportunity to set global industrial standards and to assert ourselves, not to be the victims of others. that is to say, it will strengthen us in this global political and economic order. and that is why what has been described is achievable, and we must ensure that the political momentum is maintained. the previous attempts have failed in the small and the fearful. i think we need to look at the big political picture now, that we're pushing our interests. this small-mindedness i hear here, if we negotiate something, we lose it. the european union is the greatest economic and commercial power on earth! and i trust that our commissioner will negotiate this and in these negotiations will take account of our interests in order to enforce our position and not take out everything else that is possible. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. and the european powers in the field of culture are extremely limited. it can only negotiate what is european competence in the social field, and that is extremely limited. he can't negotiate this and give it away. i believe that the opportunities and advantages are of great importance to us and that for this reason, madam president, we should make it clear: this must be europe's success. and if there is no result that is a success for europe, then we will not ratify it. we have the right to ratify now! the commission will know that, the negotiators will know that, the americans will know that. that's why i'm confident enough that these negotiations will lead to our mutual success. and i wish you, mr de gucht, every success in these negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not suggest that you have lied here. i do not think that commissioner de gucht is lacking in transparency either. the opposite is true. we have a very lively debate before these negotiations even begin. it has been discussed in committee on several occasions, it has been discussed in all the groups. in fact, the mandate is already publicly available. i believe that legends are being made here which will then be the ramps on which those who are actually arguing for a rejection of the whole agreement and who just today do not want to say so want to march. we should not be petty either! we are dealing with the two largest economies in the world. this agreement is of geostrategic importance. if the united states and the european union, which produce 50% of the world's gdp, can agree together on a free trade agreement, on a truly deep trade and investment partnership, then that is a signal to the rest of the world. the fact is that nothing is going on in the wto, unfortunately, because the rest of the world is not playing along. and now for the exceptions: let us take the audiovisual sector as an example. do we really think the americans are buying the bbc? or rai? or tf1? that's not going to happen! and of course it will continue to be possible to finance european films by european filmmakers with european funds. we can be confident here. europe has much to offer. we'll be able to hold our own in the market.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. myanmar is a country that is opening up. this was clearly demonstrated when nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi's house arrest was lifted in 2010. and the opening up was reinforced when the citizens' rights party won 43 of the 45 seats in parliament last year. i agree with you, commissioner de gucht, when you say that the eu must encourage and support these developments. the trade preference system 'everything but arms' is the right instrument. in addition, closer trade links allow us to work with local partners to ensure that working and living conditions in myanmar continue to improve. at the same time, however, it is important and right that the european parliament's motion for a resolution should refer to the still very difficult human rights situation in some countries. although it is now illegal in myanmar, forced labor still exists, mainly by the military. this has to be stopped. the eu must also not forget the plight of the rohingya muslims, as mentioned, who are still considered the most oppressed minority in the world. at least one million live as refugees in neighbouring countries. in myanmar itself, they are not recognized as an ethnic group, which ultimately results in them not being eligible for citizenship. i very much hope that the opening up of this country, commissioner, and closer relations with the eu will help to give the rohingya their rightful place in society, to put an end to the brutal persecution and, above all, to put an end to the last cases of forced labour.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the reform process initiated by the burmese leadership two years ago is astonishing by many accounts. the political sphere and society at large are suddenly enjoying a degree of openness never experienced before. this is clearly a historic opportunity for the eu to assist burma in stepping out of the cold, and it should not be missed. but the hundreds of political prisoners still in burmese jails and the 130 000 heavily repressed rohingyas are unlikely to consider that the eu has shown diplomatic shrewdness in giving up whatever leverage it had to improve their fate. the reform process in burma is too fragile, too recent and too incomplete, and the human rights situation is still too worrisome, for a risky policy u-turn. there can be no trade rewards without strong assurances and real safeguards that the human rights reform process will continue. launching a human rights dialogue is simply not good enough. we have tabled amendments asking the commission to submit to parliament and the council an assessment of the situation with regard to the human rights situation in burma by the end of the year in order to confirm, or otherwise, that the situation is sufficiently acceptable for us to continue granting gsp. human rights watch is supporting these amendments, and i hope you will be too in tomorrow’s vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as rapporteur for the eu-asean report, i would also like to contribute to the debate on myanmar's membership of asean. i was in myanmar a few weeks ago with the subcommittee on human rights and i strongly supported the reintroduction of the general tariff preferences for goods from myanmar. it is of the utmost importance that the eu stands by myanmar as a committed partner in its democratic transition. we must therefore strengthen our relations, both in the political and in the economic and social spheres, and support the reform process. democracy and economic development go hand in hand in myanmar too. the ultimate aim must be to achieve the greatest possible benefit for the population. europe's politicians and businessmen have a duty to make it possible to develop relations in a sustainable and social way. similarly, the government of myanmar, as well as the opposition, must develop forward-looking strategies for its people. considerable progress has already been made in respecting fundamental freedoms and human rights. however, there is still much to be done, particularly in the areas of the decaying economic structures and the protection of religious and minority groups. for example, the resolution of the conflict between the predominantly christian kachin and the army, as well as the religious-ethnic conflicts between the muslim rohingya and the buddhist rakhine. it is important to note that the long-standing social, political and economic failures of the old military regime cannot be made up overnight by the current government. only long-term and continuous reform processes will produce tangible results. we must follow this path wherever we have a good opportunity to do so.
member of the commission. − mr president, dear colleagues, i will be brief. i believe it is the right moment to reinstate everything but arms for myanmar, because it will help them to grow and to have more jobs. but, on the other hand, we should be aware that this is a very fragile country, and we should look very closely at the balance between what it can bring them and the risks. the reason i am saying this is that we have learned, in bangladesh for instance, that this kind of scheme, which of course attracts a lot of investment, can also result in socially unacceptable working conditions. this is presently the case in bangladesh, and we are going to discuss that tomorrow. i believe that this parliament, once everything but arms is reinstated, should keep a very close eye – as the rapporteur said – on corporate social responsibility. we also have a responsibility for making sure that those who benefit from everything but arms are the local people – those who are living in poverty – and that reinstating this kind of preference will perhaps enable them to have a better life.
author. − mr president, even though it is late, this is a matter on which we are doubtless all agreed: investments are important. the rule of law is a central prerequisite for the flow of investments. ensuring compliance with the law, however, is a task for the courts. commissioner, you want to ensure, in binding national agreements between the eu and third countries, the right for investors to take action against governments, leaving judgment to trade specialists to whom environmental or other social interests do not matter. with this law you deprive the governments of the member states of the right to defend their own political majority decisions, such as the withdrawal from nuclear energy. you even want to be able to force them to relinquish their position and take over the position of the commission. what is the point then in having elections? internationally the number of such lawsuits has increased more than tenfold to nearly 500 at this moment in time. it is a mighty billion-dollar arbitration industry in its own right. on average we are talking about usd 8 million in legal costs and over usd 100 million in compensation claims per case. this law creates the foundations for the plundering of the european union and its member states by specialised law firms and corporations. from which budget line do you want to pay for lost lawsuits? that is not clear, and we have to discuss the whole issue at length. i also want to thank the rapporteur; while we were discussing the report, we established that this question is still open and on the table. i would also like to expand on the third question we raised. companies in the european union have to go via the ordinary courts, but you wish to enable investors from the outside to make use of the state method, which provides for far greater sums and compensation for damages. do you intend to encourage companies to establish a branch abroad and then sue the eu or its member states as an external plaintiff? a recent study concludes that in the text foreseen on the agreement with canada, the ceta agreement, the wording on the table enables exactly this procedure, and legal action could soon be started against us, for example regarding the legislation prohibiting or regulating fracking. i therefore cannot agree to the proposed bill and we will probably reject it, but i would like to receive certain answers to the questions we raised.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. last year saw a record number of investor lawsuits against governments. in 2012, 52 cases were filed, the highest number of lawsuits per year since the investment agreements were introduced. in 70% of the cases, the investor was right. also in 2012, the highest compensation ever was imposed against ecuador. ecuador was forced to pay $1.77 billion to occidental for cancelling an oil contract. the verdict was considered highly doubtful by numerous experts. developing countries are more often the target of such lawsuits, and for them the fines were an existential burden. vattenfall is currently suing germany over the decision to phase out nuclear power, which was supported by a large parliamentary majority, and is seeking multi-billion euro compensation. we are currently discussing in europe moratoriums and bans on fracking. many member states have already implemented these. there are legitimate concerns that the inclusion of the investor complaint mechanism in the free trade agreement with canada could lead to investors being able to sue european governments for fracking. an investor has just sued the government of quebec over such a moratorium. there's something fundamentally wrong with this system. how is it that we can give investors such extensive rights and override these even democratically made decisions? how can the commission be justified in wanting to include this mechanism in the agreements with canada, the usa and india? and how can the commission guarantee that unjustified claims will be excluded? such lawsuits undermine democratic processes. cosmetic changes and more transparency are not enough. the whole mechanism belongs on the test bench.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. we have supported your proposal and have strengthened the commission's powers, but on the other hand, of course, member states have also tried to show their own competence in this area. we were therefore fully on your side in order to strengthen the competence of the european level. now that we have the mechanism, we must of course also think carefully about when and where we are going to use it. and that is why we must, in the negotiations with third countries, define very precisely the areas in which the mechanism is to be applied. the possibilities of shaping legislation in the field of social standards, environmental standards and social design must be left to a third country, and this instrument must not be used in this respect. now the question is: do we need such a tool in highly developed industrialized countries? the american congress has just now made it clear in connection with the forthcoming trade agreement with the european union that there should be no discrimination between domestic and foreign investors, because both legal systems are fully developed. in the field of fully developed legal systems, we should not use this instrument. but when we negotiate something, it is also necessary to include the issue of the social responsibility of investors, i.e. to integrate csr. the belgian government has done exactly that, commissioner, in a bilateral investment agreement, and it has done it in a model way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the alps are one of the most beautiful and fragile cultural and natural spaces in europe. everyone loves the alps, it's their luck, and it's a bit of a problem too. if we want to preserve the unique landscape of the alps, we must change the political landscape, develop energy, transport and tourism in a gentle, environmentally friendly and sustainable way, and not, as so often happens, destroy them for short-term profit. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community. and above all, he must not make political decisions far away without adequate knowledge of the concrete problems on the ground - in munich, milan, vienna, berlin, paris or rome or even in brussels - but on the ground with the people. we have a great instrument of cooperation in the alps, a foundation on which we can build: the alpine convention. if you want to develop an alpine strategy - and i believe the alps are a predestined area - you have to build on this alpine convention. but if you want to put the alpine convention off, you are tearing out the heart of what you claim to be protecting. i want us to develop the alpine region together, not from above, but from below, with people, in the best sense, with responsibility for our fellow citizens, the environment and the future, building on what the people of the alpine region have developed together and not ignoring it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this shows how wonderful, both human and political, is the instrument of the intermediate question, in this case, demand. because you heard something i didn't say. on the contrary, if you listened carefully, i was just saying that the alpine region - unlike parts of the danube region, by the way - is a region where people have already learned to cooperate wonderfully across borders in the most important areas. the alpine convention has provided an instrument for this and a framework within which they want to develop this alpine region together. i was concerned that what we had experienced in the alps in the past, particularly in the case of the arge alps, could be repeated if the alpine strategy did not focus on developing these tools and ideas gently, specifically and together with people, but instead focused on overcoming them. (the speaker agrees to answer a further question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! i think you suffer, as i and all my colleagues do, from the terrible structure of our one-minute debates, which force us to cut short things that we would like to do more specifically. i would therefore like to thank you very much for your interim question. the background to the danube strategy was as follows: it seems to me that in some countries we have little of this living civil society structure in the danube strategy - we are looking for it there, we want to build it first - that we have here in the alpine region, which has developed very well in the alpine countries and which has learned to cooperate with each other through the alpine association, through nature conservation associations, but also through the local political bodies, through the local economic actors. of course, you have to include the capitals. but the music must be played locally, not in the capitals. that's what it's all about. i am therefore calling for the development of these instruments, which involve associations, civil society and local institutions in all these issues, and for us not to return to a strategy which seeks to set development objectives for the alps from the outside and from above, which has little to do with what is actually happening in the alpine region.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the collapse of the rana plaza building in savar, near dhaka, bangladesh on 24 april has deeply shocked us all. it claimed the lives of at least 1 127 and injured many more, most of them young women working in garment factories which were located in the building. on behalf of lászló andor, cathy ashton and andris piebalgs, who are also involved in the follow-up, i wish to express again our sincere condolences to the families of the victims. the scale of this accident and others before has led to deep concerns all over the world about the safety and working conditions in the textile industry in bangladesh and other developing countries, and nowhere are the concerns voiced more loudly than in europe, which is bangladesh’s biggest trading partner. let me underline, however, that while today’s discussion – for obvious reasons – focuses on bangladesh, the purpose is not to name and shame that country. similar concerns prevail in other countries and also need to be addressed. the eu has reacted swiftly, in bangladesh and in europe. we have immediately expressed concern and sympathy and we have taken a series of initiatives. we have put this new tragedy in the context of a wider problem of labour standards in the garment industry in south asia. we have stressed the eu’s serious concern, as bangladesh’s largest trading partner, about working conditions, including occupational safety and health, and we have made an urgent call on the government of bangladesh to act immediately. we have referred specifically to the need for bangladesh to comply with the international labour standards of the ilo and have offered our assistance for this. we have been able to build on projects that we are already funding in this field, and we have also welcomed and encouraged the efforts of the ilo to bring together the various relevant stakeholders to work together to tackle the problems of factory safety in bangladesh. we have said that we are considering appropriate action, including through the generalised system of preferences (gsp), through which bangladesh currently receives duty-free and quota-free access to eu markets under the ‘everything but arms’ scheme in order to incentivise responsible management of supply chains involving developing countries. more generally, we have raised with the government of bangladesh the importance of addressing working conditions and social inequalities. we have expressed encouragement for responsible management of supply chains involving developing countries. european and international companies should respect labour standards throughout their supply chain in line with internationally-recognised corporate social responsibility standards and in dialogue with workers’ representatives. we very much welcome the fact that 24 – mostly european – major fashion and retail brands sourcing garments from bangladesh did so last week by signing an accord on fire and building safety to try to ensure safety in the bangladeshi factories which supply them. we would like to see more companies join this initiative. in dhaka, the eu delegation held meetings with the government, eu retailers and officials of the garments manufacturers and exporters association to discuss factory safety in the ready-made garment sector. similar consultations have taken place with representatives of major european garment companies and retailers concerning factory safety as well as with experts from the ilo and development agencies. this is a period of intense engagement, as shown by the initiatives taken so far to help bangladesh bring about change. we have given a clear signal that the problem is serious and should be addressed urgently. sustained and progressive improvement of working conditions should be ensured, with all sides taking their responsibilities and working together. i will discuss these issues with foreign minister moni on tuesday in brussels. what is needed now? we were very much encouraged to see the high-level ilo mission visit bangladesh two weeks ago, which resulted in a tripartite joint statement involving workers’ representatives, employers and the government of bangladesh. it aims at preventing further tragedies, notably through the assessment of structural and fire safety of all export-oriented garment factories and associated remedial actions; the implementation and extension of the national tripartite plan of action on fire safety adopted in march; a change in legislation on occupational health and safety and freedom of association; as well as training, rehabilitation and redeployment of injured and unemployed workers. this is a step in the right direction. the ilo has a key role to play as a tripartite organisation and the guarantor of internationally-accepted standards. this joint statement now needs to be implemented through a clear and time-bound action plan. of course, not all the problems can be solved overnight, but commitment and concrete action is needed, and we are ready to support. we will also continue encouraging bangladesh and our other partners to ratify and effectively implement international labour standards and to cooperate with the ilo to that end. we will encourage and support bilateral cooperation between the eu and bangladesh to promote the development of a better preventive culture of occupational safety and health. we expect europe-based companies to exercise corporate social responsibility in their activities and openly adhere to the international corporate social responsibility guidelines, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises if applicable, the ilo tripartite declaration on multinational enterprises and social policy, or the un global compact. europe-based companies should also exercise due diligence to ensure respect for human rights within their supply chains, as outlined in the un guiding principles on business and human rights. we will work further with our social partners and companies for that purpose. to achieve these objectives, we plan to continue holding constructive dialogue with the bangladeshi authorities and further strengthen our cooperation with the ilo. we will continue working with european stakeholders and consider supporting initiatives of our social partners in the textile and retail sectors. they have already started to look at the next steps they can take to promote responsible supply chains in their companies, in bangladesh and elsewhere. we will consider expanding our funding for projects to provide the necessary support. some examples of the projects which we already fund include supporting the government and employers’ associations in order to provide compliance audits in factories and training for labour inspectors and factory compliance officers, and working closely with the bangladesh fire service and civil defence directorate, as well as with unido and the ilo on trade, working conditions, training, assessment and occupational health and safety in bangladesh and in a global perspective. as i mentioned earlier, we must not underestimate the scale of the problem and the fact that it is not restricted to bangladesh or to the textile sector. this underlines how much more work is needed. the european parliament also has an important role to play, not least by following up on its january resolution and through its contacts with counterparts in national parliaments. we hope that members will pursue the matter with members of the bangladeshi parliament, many of whom have close links with the garment industry and can thus provide leverage and make a difference. to summarise: we have to work with the government of bangladesh, our partner, but work also needs to have a goal, and the goal should be that the working conditions improve in bangladesh – that is what it is about, and i will be very strict in this. if things do not improve, i will ask for an investigation to be launched. i want to be very clear on that. it is a process, it cannot change from one day to another, but the process should also be productive. secondly, i believe very strongly that european companies – the retail and the big clients of the garment and textile industry in bangladesh – have a responsibility too. they need to take responsibility for their supply chain. we will call together a high-level meeting with them very soon, hopefully as early as june, and i want concrete undertakings from those companies. they have already signed a kind of charter, but we have to be very concrete in this, and they can take responsibility for their supply chains. lastly, this is not about trade, because trade should respect a number of elementary rules. of course, trade is important for bangladesh. it has meant that millions of people, mostly women, have found a job and an occupation. but this is about respect for fundamental human rights and respect for human dignity and, if you look at the pecking order, human dignity comes before trade.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that your last words have been very heartfelt, because in view of the more than a thousand deaths in the recent incident in this large factory, the concern is not only very great here in the european parliament. the question of standards and their enforcement is also raised. with all the concern, it's important that we don't just lash out at the clothing chains. this cannot be the answer, because unfortunately we have had to realise that even companies that sell high-priced items often produce them under questionable conditions and the question of the final price of a product often has nothing to do with the conditions of manufacture and production. on the other hand, i also believe that a boycott, as some have called for in the first wave, is not the right solution. the fact is that in the textile sector in bangladesh we are talking about several million people who depend on it for their livelihood, who earn their money and their livelihood in this sector and who, especially in the local context, earn above average despite the extremely low wages in our view. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal situation in bangladesh is not affected by the criminal proceedings. if you look at the building that housed this factory, it was obvious that a lot of things were not done right and that the law was not respected. on the other hand, the authorities in bangladesh will surely have to ask themselves: have they done enough to ensure that the people there are law abiding? but i would like, for that very reason, not to see us building a new imperialism or colonialism against these countries, but, as commissioner de gucht has said, to see us offering genuine help, to see us bringing in our experience, which we have gained over decades and centuries in the field of building law, fire protection, firefighting, disaster prevention and working conditions. we have referred to the ilo on several occasions and i am very pleased that the government of bangladesh has indicated that it is now finally willing to work more closely with the ilo. but i would be very grateful if we could think about how we can - through our common foreign and security policy, our common trade policy, our exchanges - really offer our experience in these areas, not in a more knowledgeable and authoritarian way, but as a genuine offer. i would be delighted, commissioner de gucht, if not only you were to talk about standards and supply chains in the dialogue with the trading companies, but our chains have a big job to do in introducing sustainably produced products into their shops. it is the smaller movements that are bringing fairly manufactured products to the man. if we can finally get the big chains to set up their shops in the corner, as they do now for coffee and tea, where they sell fairly traded products, then we can really make the broad purchasing power of our european middle class and our european population work for the poor in these countries. we need not the solidarity of the rich with the rich, but the solidarity of the european consumer community with the people of these countries!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is rare for the groups in our house to adopt a resolution with such unanimity. the series of disasters in the textile industry in bangladesh has shocked us all and we all express our condolences. but what about the six dead in the shoe factory in cambodia that collapsed a week ago, where the coveted asics running shoes are made for only 25 euros? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we europeans are complicit in these deaths. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, supply chain structures and conditions must be regulated in a binding way! the majority of this house has always voted against proposals from my group which would make the conduct of european companies in the world binding rather than being voluntary. the majority of this house has never wanted to accept respect for human rights and workers' rights and environmental criteria as a legally fixed precondition for the importation of goods. "greed is cool" and "more and more and more" as advertising slogans are just two sides and inhuman. i hope very much that you will finally start to change your mind, ladies and gentlemen. i appeal to the commission - and i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner - to draw up the appropriate legislative proposals without delay. let us not let the unscrupulous entrepreneurs get away with it any longer!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the average import price for a pair of bangladeshi jeans is about eur 6.50 when it arrives here in europe. if you look at it, you know that these prices can only be achieved by extreme social and environmental dumping. and the only difference is that when the jeans are sold in europe, they are not sold for 7 euros, but for 50, 60 and more, sometimes over 100 euros. so there is clearly a responsibility in the value chain of the manufacturers. i am of course in favour of the commission using the aps instrument to put pressure on bangladesh to comply with the safety conditions. it is of course particularly important that trade union rights be strengthened, because we have to ensure that our colleagues in bangladesh have the opportunity to collectively fight for fair, just wages, but also have the opportunity to refuse to work in unsafe factories without being subject to penalties. so: strengthening trade union rights is very basic in the context of what we have to achieve in bangladesh. but then again, what are our companies doing? could it be that it takes two accidents to happen for companies to volunteer to achieve improved safety standards in bangladesh factories? by the way, corporations like walmart, metro and nkd did not sign this statement. that's not enough! we must make it clear that european companies throughout the value chain are responsible for this and implement it accordingly! so, commissioner, when you meet with the companies in june, insist that they voluntarily agree to comply with the oecd guidelines in their foreign activities, not only in bangladesh but in all third countries!
i have to say, madam president, we are again dealing in a very short time with the working conditions in bangladesh, with accidents and deaths in factories which have also worked for european companies. the tragedies in bangladesh are devastating, but they are happening elsewhere and show that something is seriously wrong with the global system of division of labour and unsustainable production. this is nothing new. but so far, there has been much talk and little action. of course, the government in bangladesh is called upon to improve the situation of the workers. raising the minimum wage is not enough, it must also be paid. trade unions must finally be able to work without repression. the government must provide access to justice for those affected. but more important to me is what we can do here. european companies must finally act and take responsibility. the agreement signed by ngos, trade unions and 31 companies is a step in the right direction. but it is annoying that some european companies are missing. but the agreement must also be implemented. companies must compensate victims and survivors and provide access to free medical care for injured persons. they must rehabilitate factories and ensure that international labor and safety standards are met. some companies that are in the fair wear foundation already do audits of their suppliers and have them audited by third parties. so it is possible. the eu is also called upon to force european companies to disclose their supply chains. this can be done, for example, by labelling or annual reports. the commission must finally include corporate social responsibility and human rights clauses as binding in its negotiations on trade agreements, and not relegate them to the non-binding chapters on sustainable development. as a last resort, parliament can still reject trade agreements if they cannot be negotiated transparently and if greater control over european trade policy cannot be achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the devastating consequences of the collapse of a textile factory in dhaka, which left more than 1 100 dead and 2 500 injured, have led to a debate that is long overdue and is no longer confined to exclusive circles. the first necessary measures have been taken - some colleagues have pointed this out - and last week an agreement was signed by 40 international textile traders, trade unions and ngos. this involves at least 1 000 subcontractors and intermediaries. on the other hand, those who feel no obligation to anyone must be known. the more than 4 million workers in the textile industry of bangladesh have to get out of low-paid jobs, get out of lack of safety at work, get out of lax safety regulations. european companies have a responsibility to ensure that minimum standards are adopted in south asia too: fire safety, ventilation, more space for workers and, of course, more stable buildings. but the local authorities - i know the country a little as vice-chairman of the south asia delegation, led by jean lambert - must also do their part, grant building permits only after thorough checks, carry out regular checks to ensure compliance with the rules and finally take action against this corruption. the ilo convention - as my colleagues have pointed out - must be implemented word for word. we can make our contribution by putting the right pressure. of course, higher social standards and safety standards and environmental regulations come at a price. we should all be aware of this when we shop. our buying habits can affect our life. it is about fairness, it is also about humanizing the world of work, and it is always about concrete and visible solidarity!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the cypriot presidency, the irish presidency and the commission and my shadow rapporteurs very warmly for the constructive work they have done in recent months. despite the controversial starting point, we have succeeded in concluding these two reports at first reading and have reached a conclusion on both reports, namely that the transport of pets for commercial and non-commercial purposes, and thus for travel within the european union, which is becoming increasingly popular, has been genuinely de-bureaucratized. this is a result that can be seen. because we have a different development, we have an increase in pets in the european union. i should like to mention a few figures. one in four households in the eu now owns at least one dog, cat or ferret. there are 64 million cats, 60 million dogs, 72 million pets in total -- so we're talking about a population that can already be seen. in future, pet owners will be able to move their animals even more easily and with less red tape within the european union and in third countries. the rules to be voted on today contain substantial relaxations and clarifications which are of direct concern to the citizens. the revision of the existing rules was prompted by the expiry of several transitional provisions, but also by the need to align them with the treaty of lisbon. but what is much more important is that the animal disease situation, especially rabies, has improved considerably in the european union and we have achieved something that was initiated by the european union at that time, that we have carried out a nationwide vaccination campaign against rabies in foxes, so that this disease has been pushed back far and we can now of course offer the citizen something that really helps him when he travels and so on. what have we achieved in detail? the exceptional rules which have always caused great difficulties - that you had to do other things in the uk, in sweden, in norway - ladies and gentlemen, they are now a thing of the past, so there is no need to talk about them. we have always advocated, of course, a limit of five animals. that is also stated in the new regulation, but over the years i have received letters from citizens who have said: if we want to take part in sled dog races, for example, if we want to take part in exhibitions, then we have a problem here. it is therefore right that we have been able to make improvements here and have made arrangements so that, if proven, this can be regulated much better. the introduction of a single format of identity card - the blue card - which must be the same throughout the european union is also a major step forward. i also think that the information contained in a document is very important. also the possibility of traveling with an authorized person, so you can simply assign another person in the family circle - you can take the dog because you love it, or something else - these are things that contribute significantly to the relief. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have achieved a great deal here, and i am sure that the citizens will thank us for it. there is of course one question which i shall raise again at the vote later on, because we have to put an oral motion to put a stop to publication and entry into force. we talked about that in the trilogy. we did that at the time. now, of course, we must also put it in the legal text. the legal department found that missing. so i shall put an oral request before the vote, with the agreement of the commission, the council and also the shadow rapporteur. i don't think there's any problem with that. i look forward to the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mr schnellhardt for his excellent work which has been aimed at facilitating the cross-border transport of animals and at the same time improving animal health regulations so that we can also improve the animal disease standard in europe. i think it is positive that now for the many holidaymakers who would like to take their dog as a family member, there should be an easy online access to get the necessary information for the respective holiday country. it was difficult to find out in each member state what to do if i wanted to take my pet with me. it is also good that we continue to ensure that not too many animals are transported at once. but i think my schleswig-holstein sled dog friends who like to do the sport are also happy that they can follow the winter and now also get exemptions for more than just five dogs, because for such a team you need eight dogs and a few replacement animals, and then it gets quite tight. and if we are thinking of creating a pan-european database, we must take into account the costs, the bureaucracy that we are creating, and that is why i think it is good that the european commission should look at this first and thank mr schnellhardt again for the good work he has done.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen of the house! the decisions taken today will lead to satisfactory european regulation on two important issues. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals, and the introduction of a european standard for the transport of animals. the second concerns veterinary questions, primarily in the commercial sector. i would like to say that the commission is convinced that satisfactory european rules have been drawn up for both complexes at first reading and have been deservedly supported by parliament. some of the speeches concerned matters which, however, concern animal welfare beyond what is currently regulated. i would like to remind you here, also because of the commitment of mrs striffler, that animal welfare is primarily a matter for the member states, because of our rules of competence, and that we have relatively limited legal options at european level in the area of animal welfare. that is to say, when examples are referred to, we need to ensure that this is dealt with with sensitivity in the respective parliament in the member state and in the government and the authorities, because our powers as the commission are very limited in this area. i am grateful to the commission for its willingness to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. thank you to all those responsible!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. there's not much to add to that. one observation: free movement for our citizens, free movement for our pets too, which - as we have seen today - are slowly becoming members of our family, and that means that you can pursue your hobby here too - we have ensured that. but this was also clearly expressed today, always in compliance with the animal health regulations. and we have not for nothing tightened up the rules on third countries where the animal health rules are not yet the same. we have set clear rules there: for example, if a third country asks to adopt the european union's rules, it must first prove that it can actually implement all these rules for two years. we have therefore already complied with the animal health regulations, and that is a good compromise: free movement, on the other hand, by means of action by the european commission in the european union, a reduction in rabies, and this gives us the opportunity to relax here. we have a good compromise. i would like to thank once again the many who took part and the commission. perhaps a few brief remarks on the treaty of lisbon: we've had a little trouble with that, of course. but we have finally found a way which can also serve as an example for further implementation of the treaty of lisbon, by putting a little more emphasis on these basic principles - delegated acts, the right of parliament to intervene - but also by taking account of the wishes of the commission, which must of course act quickly in this area. that's a good result, and one to build on. thank you to everyone who worked with us, and now free ride for dog and cat! that's a good sign.
before entering the agenda, i should like to express - and i hope i speak on your behalf - the house's deep concern at the brutality with which a soldier was murdered yesterday in the streets of london. i'll ask the president to extend our condolences to the family.
mr president, dear mr joseph daul, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is important that joseph daul has raised this issue here. but i think that we in the european union have to worry about the democratic development not just because of bulgaria, but because we have a number of member states where we are finding it increasingly difficult to defend european values and european democracy internally. we discussed hungary last month. we have discussed romania a long time ago, and i was a little surprised by the liberal group. we discussed italy too late. we may have to discuss greece in the near future because of the developments in greece around golden dawn. i should like to take this opportunity to say that i believe that the tavares report, in the context of the debate in hungary, opens up a very good catalogue of instruments which we europeans can give ourselves to defend our values internally. (applause from the centre and the right) and we must actually get out of this situation that in the party families of europe blood is always thicker than water and that the black sheep in their own ranks are always defended! the tavares report offers such possibilities! (applause from the centre)
reply to a statement without a microphone. mr cohn-bendit, i reproach you for using a term which should not become common in this house.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the oral amendment is before you in the form of a text. i want to give you a very brief explanation of why i did it. in order to allow for the timely publication of the regulation on the non-commercial movement of pet animals and the implementing acts provided for therein, in particular on the format of the pet passport, it is necessary to bring the date of entry into force of the regulation forward to the date of publication. other that is the short remark, it does not concern the other agreements at first reading and it concerns amendment no 150 by six groups. i think you can agree with that. it's not a major change. but what we agreed in the trilogue must also be in the text. that's what the legal service has brought to our attention.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the resolution because in the first paragraph we call on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without delay. accession negotiations or accession by macedonia at this stage would be a very unfavourable story for the eu. because we have to stop overstretching the european union itself by always taking in new countries that have a lot of problems. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is ranked 69th in the transparency index, and i am not comforted by the fact that italy, bulgaria and greece are second only to it. i believe that the country still has big problems, that the heterogeneity of the european union must play at least as big a role in our accession strategy as the desire to take in more countries. we have paid far too little attention to the fact that we should be bringing and forcing the neighbouring countries to cooperate with each other, the countries in the balkans, which were formerly united in yugoslavia. it is therefore important to create more opportunities and instruments here.
in writing. - i voted for the exclusion of the audiovisual and cultural sectors from the resolution. i am convinced that the diversity of cultures and opinions in europe must not be restricted, because they are an expression of our national identity.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i also wanted to comment on the guantanamo debate. we are in favour of this debate, partly because president obama himself will be speaking later this evening on what can be done, particularly with regard to the yemeni prisoners in guantánamo.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not india is bothering us on this point in three ways: firstly, we are opposed to the death penalty on principle, even with a good partner like the usa or india. secondly, we must be clear: this method of carrying out the death penalty is not worthy of a democracy, it is absolutely in keeping with the dictatorship. the third point i would like to make is the most important: we call on india and pakistan to finally resolve the kashmir question with courage and a spirit of reconciliation - a festering wound between two nuclear powers which directly threatens the security and peace of the world and thus also the security and peace of europe. we must therefore, as europeans, do much more to find a satisfactory solution to the kashmir problem and thus contribute to peace in this strategically difficult region.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in this resolution we also call for the death sentence of professor devinder pal singh bhullar to be commuted to imprisonment. we adopted a resolution on it in july 2011. professor singh, a political dissident, went to germany to seek political asylum after his father was abducted by the punjab police and his family was repeatedly tortured and beaten. after an unsuccessful asylum application in germany, he was deported to india on the grounds that he had nothing to fear. on his arrival in india, he was arrested and has been in prison ever since. ten years in solitary confinement, 22 hours a day in a 30 by 30 foot cell. the professor's mental state has deteriorated over the years. later, the german courts ruled that he should not have been deported, that his life in india was in danger. i urge the indian government not to execute professor singh and all the other people still on death row, and to convert their death sentences into prison sentences. the forthcoming world congress against the death penalty in madrid in june of this year would be a good opportunity, a good occasion for india, but also for the other countries which still use the death penalty, to stop and end this policy of state killing.
question for the 'blue card' procedure: mr president, i am also against terrorism, but i am equally against the death penalty. do you know that the greatest european of the 20th and 21st centuries, the polish pope john paul ii, was fundamentally against any death penalty?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to expressly endorse the content of the resolution which has been tabled, but i would like to take the opportunity at the end of this debate to ask commissioner günther oettinger, responsible for energy, whether there is any consideration at european commission level of using the water resources which are certainly dormant in rwanda to make a contribution to development aid policy in rwanda in accordance with the situation we have just discussed. rwanda has great hydropower potential, which we have not discussed. that is why i ask the commissioner if he could perhaps say something briefly in his closing statement.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 24 may 2013.
i am not going to go into detail. i welcome you and the ladies and gentlemen to the audience for the opening of the june plenary session here in strasbourg. ladies and gentlemen, for several days now we have been receiving alarming news from flood areas in various countries of the european union. there have been casualties. tens of thousands of people were evacuated and forced to leave their homes. the damage is in the billions. it will take weeks for many people to be able to move into their homes. the situation remains very tense in some parts. i would therefore like to express our solidarity with the victims of the flood disaster. we are moved by the plight and misery of those affected. we must also do everything in our power to provide rapid aid to those affected and to help with reconstruction. but i would also like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the countless volunteers who are helping with the evacuations, helping to bring people to safety, to reinforce dams and to pump out basements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (applause from the centre) the flood disaster also shows us once again how important prevention is. i hope that when this flood is over, we can all learn the necessary lessons together. i would like to draw your attention to the following: on monday of next plenary week, 1 july 2013, croatia will become the 28th member of the european union. on the same day, 12 newly elected croatian members of parliament will take their seats as our colleagues in the european parliament. i will be co-chairing with my colleague josip leko, president of the croatian parliament, the sabor, a ceremony to welcome our new colleagues and to welcome croatia as a member of the eu here in the forecourt of the parliament. after the flags are raised, the croatian national anthem and the european anthem are played. i would be grateful if you would accept my invitation to this ceremony and be present in as large a number as possible on that day. before we come to the minutes and the texts adopted at the meeting on 23 may, i have one thing i would like to say to the house. on 23 may, during the voting period, mr wieland, the vice-president in office, informed me of this. mr cohn-bendit insulted mr reul in a way which i do not wish to repeat here. i am the president of this parliament and i must ensure that the rules are observed and that the dignity of this house is respected. mr cohn-bendit, i have spoken to you about this. i would be grateful if you could apologize to my colleague reul. then the matter would be settled.
mr cohn-bendit, i know mr reul, and he will accept the apology.
the minutes of the previous meeting are approved. the commission
parliament approved the appointment of mr roberta metsola as the following: the commission
mr. borghezio, you are right. i would inform the house that you have objected to this decision of the efd group in that you have asked me to check whether the rules of the efd group are compatible with those of parliament. this test is ongoing. i have informed the conference of presidents about this.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 6 june 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday:the s&d group has asked for the report by mr pargneaux on serious crossborder health threats to be postponed until the july part-session.
i would like to speak in favour of this proposal, particularly because i think it is important, given the developments we have in all this passenger data, that we come to a conclusion here. that is why referral back to committee is the only sensible thing to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike the coelho report, this referral back is not a technical decision but a decision on the substance which we have to make here. the question is whether we accept the majority decision in the competent committee on home affairs, the committee on civil liberties, which voted in favour of referring the commission's proposal back. if we now refer this back to committee from the plenary, we are in fact ignoring this decision, which was taken after about a year and a half of debate, in which three or four groups expressed their strong criticism and refused to accept this mass analysis of passenger data. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
if the council takes a decision on this by thursday, we can still vote on thursday. we shall therefore keep this item on the agenda until thursday. if we have a decision by the council by thursday, we can vote on thursday. if not, we'll let it go.
mr claeys, i was just asking if there were any further reports for wednesday. now, you come back with that motion. but i'll pass it along.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to ask a question: as the epp shadow rapporteur for croatia, i would just like to know whether the entry into force of accession is in any way jeopardised by this scandalous decision of the council. it is truly outrageous what the council is doing. i would just like to ask you whether accession is still guaranteed to come into force on 1 july?
i'm not going to tell you. the answer is obvious. the necessary ratification in the parliaments has been completed. the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the accession agreement to the period from 1 july 1997. the question of the financing of the resulting commitments is one which the budgetary authority must clarify in its two parts. i'm sure that's still to be worked out after july 1st. the funding must be secured. the accession is guaranteed, the financing must be guaranteed. i would like to take up again what mr la via said, which i think was correct. we have a budget. we have a new member. and the member states that are already in the eu believe that we don't need extra money for this, that it can be financed by cuts elsewhere. this is a blatant breach of everything that has been agreed in the negotiations. you will remember that i signed a statement here in front of this house on the 2013 ordinary budget, in which the commission and the council undertook to make the necessary additional sums available for croatia's accession. parliament and the commission are keeping to this commitment, the council - and i must say not all 27, but some of the member states - are refusing to live up to their commitments. but this is not the first time, but the second time. the accession of croatia will not be jeopardised by this.
mr audy, please! i know what you want. we're inviting as many prime ministers as we can. we also have a long list of wishes from heads of government to speak to us. we will also meet all. the two visitors this week, mr president pahor and mr president cavaco silva, are not members of the european council but heads of state on a diplomatic visit to the european parliament, whose speeches are not normally discussed here. it was different with president hollande. you are a citizen of a country, mr audy, where the president is not only the representative but also the political head of state. that is why he spoke from the podium here and then debated with us from the council chamber. it's only in france.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr salvatore iacolino, on behalf of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, on organised crime, corruption and money laundering: recommended actions and initiatives (interim report) (2012/2117 ((ini) - a7-0175/2013).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against organised crime, money laundering and corruption is important and must be extended! we need better measures, above all better crossborder cooperation in the european union. we have to move on. we need common ground. all this is contained in this interim report, and i think that is good. i think we're making progress here. but i think there is one very important part missing from this report, and that is why we cannot accept it in its present form, that is to say as an interim report. we'd like to agree with him in the end. we must of course cooperate and improve the police and judicial measures, but there are no uniform procedural standards. we need a foundation, we need cooperation on the basic conditions of the rule of law, which must be met, and on the fundamental rights which must be protected. and that is not enough in this report. if we really want to fight crime better, we have to create uniform standards!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to recommend to mr stoyanov that he look at the treaty of lisbon. the european public prosecutor's office is already established there. it is possible. we just have to want to. it is no secret that money laundering, tax evasion and corruption have long been ignored, or even trivialised, in the countries of the european union. many have even seen the lax practice as an economic location factor. i would like to quote briefly commissioner šemeta who recently said: 'the existing protection of eu funds can at best be described as flawed. fraudsters must not be able to escape prosecution and punishment simply because they are in another member state.' that is exactly our opinion. but it is not just the lack of revenue for the state that is the problem. it is equally important to me that citizens' trust in their democratic structures or the legal certainty for necessary investments is lacking. or the catastrophic development of human trafficking. this report shows structures that are changeable and need to be changed. crossborder crime is only possible through european instruments and better coordination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. it is a very good compromise, and what lasts long will finally be good! as a doctor and as the leader of our group in the committee on the environment and health, i have been particularly concerned with the subject of mri, medical diagnostics. it was necessary to adopt the exceptions now contained in the package. the existing limit values of the current directive may have been manageable under certain conditions in normal operation, but this is not always the case in medicine. i used to work in a children's hospital myself. and sometimes a doctor, a nurse, or a nurse has to go into the tube to calm the child. it would have been difficult. recent research on mri surgery, for example, would also have been difficult. that is why it is good that the exception has been adopted. i'm sorry it took a little longer. but this was not the responsibility of parliament or the commission, but of the council and my own german government. this example shows that bureaucracy and difficulties with european legislation often come from the member states and from the capitals and not from parliament or the european commission. we should tell that to the people who were upset about it. it's all right. the member states were responsible for not having done so earlier.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's about 20 million people. they must be lifted out of poverty and social exclusion! it is sorely needed. the crisis is driving the regions far apart. the risk of poverty is increasing. more and more feel abandoned. it is right that the commission has said that the member states should do everything possible to ensure that these social investment packages for growth and cohesion are urgently implemented. we all know the red pencilists who are there to say, but we also have to reduce debt. you have to. and the member states must not be allowed to go around making reforms. it would be fatal if we had multi-billion dollar programmes with no demonstrable added value. we must therefore ensure that the longterm unemployed, the young unemployed and the elderly have a chance of being reached in a differentiated way. so, concrete timetables, ensuring that social institutions are included and not excluded, clear objectives and, above all, checking efficiency. the high rate of school dropouts must be reduced. the second priority is dual training. i am glad that spain is doing this in collaboration with companies and schools. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would ask you, commissioner, to give your consent in the negotiations to the fact that the six billion euros for young people in the eu budget are advanced in time and not treated as secondary. and the european youth guarantee must be brought to life. we can't afford to lose a generation. social cohesion must have a tangible effect. it is only then that it contributes to the identification of the citizens with our common european idea.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the protection of intellectual property rights is of vital importance to business and consumers. unfortunately, the trade in counterfeit products has increased in recent years. the focus has shifted from luxury brands to everyday products such as personal care products, medicines, toys and electrical household appliances. consumers are increasingly ordering these counterfeit goods on the internet. in addition, counterfeiters are constantly finding new ways to circumvent customs controls and exploit existing loopholes. this development is a serious threat to our companies and their jobs. in addition, consumers are being misled and their safety and health are being seriously harmed. the developments described have necessitated a further revision of the 2004 regulation governing the procedures for the seizure and destruction of counterfeit goods by customs authorities. customs are particularly suited to this task because they can stop consignments of goods before they reach the internal market and are broken up into smaller consignments which are then more difficult to trace. after the first reading just over a year ago, we reached a common text with the council in the trilogue in december 2012. the internal market committee adopted the outcome of the negotiations in january by a clear majority of 32 votes to 3. the council of ministers adopted the regulation on 11 march, and parliament will have to give its consent tomorrow. this allows the regulation to enter into force on 1 january 2014 in due time. the report i submitted had two main aims: firstly, i wanted to improve the protection of intellectual property in the european union. secondly, the customs authorities had to be relieved of bureaucracy. the provisions of this regulation should therefore not only be effective but also efficient. i'm pleased to report that we both achieved our goals. we have insisted that a simplified procedure for the destruction of counterfeit goods be made compulsory in all member states and that its scope be extended to all intellectual property rights. in order to meet the rapid increase in online purchases, we are also introducing a special procedure for commercial small consignments. the european parliament has maintained its position on this point. with regard to medicinal products which are in transit between third countries through the customs territory of the eu, we have made it clear that customs may only intervene if there is a real risk of diversion into the internal market. the application of this regulation should not jeopardise the supply of safe medicinal products to developing countries which may infringe eu patents. in principle, however, goods in transit must also be controlled and identified by customs on the basis of risk analysis in order to prevent infringements of rights protected in the eu, and third countries must be involved in enforcement. parliament has been successful here too. you can see that we can be very satisfied with this result. the adoption of this regulation is in the interest of undertakings, consumers and customs authorities. i therefore hope that we can count on the broad support of parliament in the vote tomorrow. i would like to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have worked very well, and the commission and the council, which have always been open to our proposals. we can therefore say that this is a good regulation for the benefit of consumers, businesses and europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is not just a matter for companies, but also for consumers, because it is also a matter of their safety and health. we should not forget that in this context. let me highlight one point in particular, namely medical devices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the products are not used in the same way as those which are used in the other member states. on the other hand, we also had to ensure that the transit of authorized generics was not suddenly included in the problem areas because of the incorrect formulation, as was intended. under no circumstances could we as social democrats have been responsible for preventing this transit trade.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to make it clear again that tourism was never included in the regulation and that the transport of generic medicines - we had the problem with india - was also explicitly excluded. so if this helps you to get even more support in parliament now, we are delighted. the protection of intellectual property is of enormous importance for europe because it preserves jobs, and this is particularly important for the european economy, but also for the consumer - i agree with mrs gebhardt - extremely important, because the consumer suffers the most. we had done a hearing and had seen horrible pictures of people who had lost their teeth because they had taken medication that was counterfeit. that is why the attempt was made, and we have managed to introduce three elements. we wanted to reduce the bureaucracy in customs so that customs could work more efficiently. this has been achieved by various things, by the simplified procedure. in such cases, the customs authorities may proceed to destruction without the need for any judicial proceedings, with the agreement of the user or holder of the goods, provided that he does not object within a specified period. that's one example. a second example: we wanted to strengthen the rights of owners. this too has been achieved. this means that in future the legitimate owner can still claim the costs of destruction from the counterfeiter. we have also accepted that the transport companies can also be held to a certain degree of responsibility if the states so wish. the third was privacy. i would like to emphasize once again that data protection is also very important in this matter. we have also strengthened it, so that we as a parliament can say that we have certainly improved the excellent proposal of the commission. we have got the council on our side, and that is why i hope we will get a large majority. we have the compromise. we wanted the regulation to come into force sooner, commissioner. the council did not agree. but i think that by january 1st, 2014, the regulation can come into force. it is also important that the national customs authorities provide sufficient staff. for example, in my own country, germany, there are 8,000 customs officers missing. i can only encourage the commission to talk to the national customs authorities, because it is very important that we also have enough people to deal with the problems. i therefore believe that this is another step forward for the consumer, for the preservation of jobs, but also for the strengthening of the european site.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry to say, but i am not surprised to learn that the new bulgarian foreign minister seems to have no other concern than to worry about the profiteers of the former communist regime, that is, those in his country's foreign service who were particularly committed to the intelligence service. i do not believe that such people can represent democratic bulgaria today. they should have been removed from office after the revolution, but the former state party has long held its protective hand over them. if the borisov government has put an end to this, then the bulgarian socialists should also finally break with their unfortunate past. otherwise the european socialists will also be embarrassed, because mr stanishev is their chairman. how does he justify, for example, that former communist intelligence cadres can now be promoted to even leading positions in the bulgarian parliament? the law on the closure of the central directorate for combating organized crime, which was suddenly presented by socialist and dps deputies, also seems to be an attempt at the last minute to help some of those who finally have to fear being targeted by independent investigators. let's see what's going on over there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many european countries are currently sinking in flood waters. my home region of bavaria in germany, as well as austria, the czech republic and hungary, are particularly affected. thousands of people struggle for their existence every day. they have lost all that they have built up over many years at home through no fault of their own. in these cases, solidarity in europe is called for. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission whether there is any chance of making funds available from the european solidarity fund for the victims. i would like to know how quickly aid can be organized here, and what specific things can be expected. press statements by commissioner lewandowski in our region have raised doubts as to whether the european union will even help the victims. i therefore ask that we in europe show solidarity with those affected who are helpless to deal with the great suffering they are suffering every day.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very concerned about the european commission, because i believe that a member state of the european union is violating the treaty on european union and its fundamental rights. the new bulgarian parliament, with a socialist-nationalist majority, wants to merge the directorate-general for combating organized crime with the intelligence service, the so-called state agency for national security. independent international experts working in bulgaria express their greatest concern that this will not allow both parliamentary and public control to take place in the future. the votes are taken virtually in a night and fog action and without any public participation. in recent years bulgaria has made painstaking progress in the fight against organised crime, human trafficking and many things in the field of internal security. the eu is committed to an area of security, freedom and justice. i therefore ask the european commission to take action in this respect.
in writing. the availability of affordable housing is an important element in making europe more social. in particular in large cities and urban areas, overpriced housing is a major problem for people in all member states. the situation is often hopeless, especially for young people who have not yet had the opportunity to build up reserves. the lack of affordable housing often limits their job search enormously. in times of peak youth unemployment, this is a problem that cries out for a response. if we invest now in building homes that are not only affordable, but also energy efficient, we create a sustainable balance in the housing market. the local economy benefits from the construction job boom and sustainable construction saves energy costs for the environment and households. i ask my colleagues to support our appeal to the commission. we need a uniform european framework for measures in the fields of state aid, the use of structural funds, the fight against poverty, but also energy and health policy. if we want to promote social inclusion, housing for people is a crucial starting point to combat stigma and exclusion. we must now do something to prevent the emergence of a class society.
member of the commission. − madam president, i thank not only the rapporteur but also all those who have intervened in this debate and those who have expressed support for this proposal. i take note of the reasons given by the meps, and have instructed the commission to monitor the different situations. i shall return briefly to this subject as well. of course, it is essential that we protect the most vulnerable groups in the population – the word ‘vulnerable’ was repeated by practically everyone in this debate – because they are sometimes not in a position to protect themselves. it is our responsibility to make sure that our legislation evolves at the same speed as our food market. sometimes we react to developments which have already taken place. the ideal state of affairs would be to have legislation parallel to developments in the food market. our aim is to have clear, consistent and appropriate legislation which means, in short, better protection for consumers, but also a better environment for operators and better enforcement by national authorities. today’s discussion and the agreement on this file confirms that we are working together to reach these shared objectives. still, even once this regulation is passed, the work will just have started. let us not run away with the idea that just because we have passed this regulation everything is in order. this, and adoption of the delegated and implementing acts, is merely a starting point. as you know, the regulation imposes on the commission the obligation to draft reports, one on growing-up milks and the other on sports. i will deal with sports first. the regulation on sports requires the commission to consult the european food safety agency in parma and to draft a report on the need for specific rules for these products. as a first step, the commission intends to monitor the market in foods for sportspeople and implementation of the regulation on claims regarding such foods. this will in turn help us to understand how horizontal rules apply to these foods. we will consult efsa at a later stage once the commission’s reflection on the matter has advanced. on gluten-free food, i take note of what madam gardini has said. i would refer you to the latin maxim pacta sunt servanda; the commitments which the commission has made will be fulfilled. i would like to inform this chamber that the commission has already started to draft the first delegated act on gluten-free foods, so we are not wasting any time on this matter. i know that the issue has been raised by other members, and we should ensure that the transfer from one regulation to the next on gluten-free food is done in the interests of consumers. in the case of coeliacs, the food information regulation which will cover these foods will be maintained because it will provide better consumer protection, as the rules will also apply to non-pre-bagged foods. we at the commission are committed to this, otherwise the entire exercise would have been futile. in conclusion, i trust that the plenary vote today will confirm the agreement on this file, so that we can start this work and thus respect the deadlines which have been set by the co-legislators. finally, may i thank ms ries once again, and all the honourable members for their valuable contributions?
member of the commission. − madam president, i am reading this statement on behalf of the commission. i am here today instead of vice-president reding, who is unavoidably absent. the european commission is concerned about recent media reports that the united states authorities are accessing and processing on a large scale the data of european union citizens using major us online service providers. programmes such as ‘prism’ and the laws under which such programmes are authorised jeopardise eu citizens’ fundamental right to privacy and data protection. the prism case, as reported in the media, is also likely to reinforce eu citizens’ concerns regarding the use of their personal data online and in the cloud. already in 2012, 70% of eu citizens were concerned that their personal data held by companies could be used for a purpose other than the one for which it was collected. the prism case as reported in the media also highlights the difference between the european union’s and the united states’ approaches to data protection. whereas in the us legal system only us citizens and residents benefit from constitutional safeguards, in the european union everyone’s personal data and the confidentiality of their communications are recognised and protected as fundamental rights, irrespective of their nationality. while the reports are particularly worrisome, the legal issue at hand is not a new one. it has been tackled by the commission in the past. to give a single example, the commission has already raised the matter of law enforcement access to personal data of european citizens in the framework of the ongoing negotiations with the united states for a general data protection agreement in the field of police and judicial cooperation. as you know very well, vice-president reding has received a mandate to negotiate this agreement with the united states, and she is keeping this house, and in particular the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee (libe), informed about the progress of these negotiations. the commission is asking for clear commitments from the united states on respect for the fundamental right of eu citizens to data protection and on access to the same judicial redress as is afforded to united states residents. as far as the prism programme is concerned, the commission will raise this matter with the united states authorities at the earliest possible opportunity. it will request clarification as to whether access to personal data within the framework of the prism programme is limited to individual cases and based on concrete suspicions, or whether it allows bulk transfers of data. vice-president reding will raise this issue with force and determination at the upcoming eu-us ministerial meeting on friday in dublin. beyond the context of relations with the united states, the european union can also act by making sure that it equips itself with robust legislation able to confront such situations, and i refer in particular to data protection. under current eu legislation, the 1995 data protection directive, when the rights of an eu citizen in a member state are concerned, it is for national judges to determine whether the data can be transmitted in accordance with legal requirements, be they national, european or international. the commission believes that these concerns need to be further addressed. this is the aim of the proposed general data protection regulation. the reform proposed by vice-president reding maintains the current high level of data protection in the eu by updating citizens’ rights, guaranteeing they know when their privacy has been violated and making sure that, when their consent is required, the consent is real. more specifically, the eu data protection reform should ensure that the european union is able to tackle situations such as the prism programme by laying down data protection rules with a clear provision on territorial scope. non-european companies, when offering goods and services to european consumers, will have to apply eu data protection law in full: a broad definition of personal data, clear responsibilities for data processors and strong rules for international transfers. recital 90 of the proposed general data protection regulation reflects our view that in order to avoid conflicts of jurisdiction, access by third-country law enforcement authorities to the personal data of eu citizens held on the servers of us companies should be done via established legal channels such as the eu-us mutual legal assistance agreements. the european parliament has submitted amendments to further clarify in the provisions of the regulation the conditions under which the judgment of a court or a tribunal of a third country is enforceable under eu law. the commission will look at these proposals. the commission believes that the quick adoption of this proposal would resolve any legal loopholes created when companies collect and handle the personal data of european citizens and face two different sovereigns. the commission therefore counts on this parliament to support the objectives and principles of the eu data protection reform and work on the swift adoption of the package.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. my data is my data. this is the basic principle of the european approach to data protection. the state also has to respect this principle that my data belongs to me and i decide what happens to it. the state must also take these limits seriously. that is why the reports from the united states are disturbing. it's good that we have a debate, it's good that in the united states, too, there's a debate now about sensitivity in terms of the proper handling of personal data. it is unacceptable - and i would like to express this on behalf of the epp group - that in the united states of america there are different standards of data protection between foreigners and us citizens. we in europe cannot accept that. our american friends must know that too. we have the facts now and we must now define our objectives. first, we need transparency. we need to know what's going on. the commission, and in particular vice-president reding, has the full backing of the european parliament in dublin to provide clarity, to respond to the practice, to the legal situation and to the implementation of the existing measures. secondly, we want transparency from the companies. if google, facebook and others make a lot of money in the european union, then the citizens and therefore the customers of these companies have a right to clarity. is there an automatic access to the data? - yes or no? thirdly, we want to clarify the role of the united kingdom. there are reports that british intelligence services are accessing european citizens' data via us databases. we need clarity from the british government. four: the internet is global. that is why we need common standards. the commission is currently working on a framework agreement in the police and judicial field. that's good and right. perhaps we should also consider not only a framework agreement in the police field, but also to pursue private data and to agree global standards with the americans. perhaps we should consider such a framework agreement. fifthly, we need the european cloud. if european data is stored in the cloud, it is good if it is stored in europe. because then we can guarantee to our citizens and our companies that this data is protected with more care and also in accordance with european standards. sixthly, we need a modern eu data protection law. we can only give a credible warning to our american friends if we ourselves in europe implement high modern data protection standards. i would like to say that i am concerned about some of the developments in this area, given the amount of data that is being built up. on the other hand, if we see the progress of data-processing technology, we must have the courage today to set clear limits to this development with standards which the commission has proposed. i would urge us as a parliament to stick to 9 july and vote in committee. we cannot allow ourselves to be blamed for delaying. i would urge the council to stop dwelling on the details, the small details, and to look at the big challenges of our time and to come to a conclusion. finally, it is also important for us as the epp to express that the united states is our partner. in the case of pnr, in the case of swift, we europeans have not been able to establish standards to keep up with the fight against organised crime and, above all, against international terrorism. but european authorities have benefited from this analysis. in germany, a terrorist bombing was prevented because we were warned by the americans. it also prevented an attack on madrid. that is why i would like to express that the united states is our partner. in particular, at swift we are eagerly awaiting the proposal of the european commission to establish a separate evaluation system for financial transactions in europe using our standards. the us way is not ours, but we work together in partnership to accomplish our tasks together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i completely share the concerns which have been raised by all the political groups here. i would like to say that it is not only a matter of data protection or of a small technical issue; this is about the rule of law and democracy, both of which are incompatible with mass surveillance. they cannot be compatible with the mass surveillance of people all around the world we need to stand up here to say clearly: mass surveillance is not what we want, and we need strong data protection rules. we need them as a precondition for democracy, for the rule of law, and also for security and trust in the digital market, or in the market as a whole. therefore, it is a very good opportunity for us to react as europeans by creating our own standards on data protection, safeguarding the rights of our citizens, and deciding as quickly as possible on the proposed regulation on data protection containing firm rules on third state transfers. this is about companies processing personal data – masses of our personal data – and then giving third state authorities the opportunity to access them. if we really want to have a safe european cloud, we need to make sure that we have strict and strong eu data protection rules which are enforceable and which create clear rules on third state transfers. only that will help. as a rapporteur for the framework agreement on data protection with the usa, i would like to work on this issue and reach an agreement on standards with the united states. however, we also need movement on the other side of the atlantic. we need some legislation. we need some legislative changes, because without legislative changes we will not reach any common ground.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all europeans cannot and must not be indifferent to the plight of their european neighbours. the unresolved crises and anti-social austerity policies, which are also at the expense of social budgets in europe, are putting pressure on many people and increasing poverty. this is a vicious circle which europe cannot allow to continue. we have to do everything we can to stop this. we need a fund that will also deal with the problem appropriately. that means in terms of funding and also in terms of the money actually getting to those who need it and the money not being able to be diverted to other projects. i fully agree with our rapporteur, emer costello. it is a matter of solidarity on the part of all of us, and no one should be selfish about his own budget or about what he gets out of the overall package. this is not the kind of solidarity that the founding fathers of our european union envisioned. i would ask the honourable members not to speak only of solidarity. decide in the interests of the people to whom the aid must actually arrive!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken a lot about a solidarity fund. this will certainly help the 19 member states which have also been dependent on the european union's food aid programme. but there are other member states which have other systems for the food boards, for the food aid, and which have local and regional donations to support them. that is why the german ngos working with the poor and the homeless have voted very clearly in favour of the voluntary system in a statement. because in germany, a commitment would be counterproductive. the money would be deducted from the basic insurance of the persons concerned, because that is the way it is in our tax system. this is therefore counterproductive and would cut important esf funds for those affected. that is why i am very much in favour of a voluntary system. this would also help the member states which are dependent on food aid. they would get these shares from germany for their boards.
ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to welcome a friend to this house: the president of the republic of slovenia, our friend borut pahor, former member of the european parliament. mr president, welcome to the house. (applause from the centre) my dear colleagues! in the preliminary debate which i have just had the opportunity to hold with borut pahor, we asked ourselves: what do toomas ilves, helle thorning-schmidt, joseph muscat, borut pahor, giorgio napolitano, elio di rupo, françois hollande, enrico letta, all these heads of state or government have in common? they are all former members of the european parliament! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to give the floor to our long-standing colleague, mr borut pahor. mr president, the floor is yours!
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it was also a speech which will be the subject of controversy in this parliament because the statements you made on the constitutional assembly in europe will certainly not please all colleagues, as you yourself have said. you know where i stand on this. but i can't say that out loud right now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this is the first time that a head of state has expressed his thanks for the work of the european parliament in such clarity. but that makes sense, too. as someone who has worked for so many years as a dedicated member of this house, you know that a legislative chamber of 754 members and soon some more from croatia, which creates binding law for 500 million people on our continent, is a unique place in the world, as it exists only in europe. we are grateful to you for encouraging us to continue this work. thank you very much, mr. pahor. (applause from the centre) (the formal sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
in writing. the fdp delegation in the european parliament agrees in principle with the report on a new european agenda for consumer protection policy. the commission is opposed to the introduction of a mechanism for collective actions, which is foreign to european legal systems and carries a high risk of abuse.
in writing. - i support the report on a new agenda for european consumer protection policy. the agenda focuses on food safety, health and energy supply. the highest priority is given to consumer protection in online commerce. the aim is to eliminate the inequality of consumers in europe. the main objective is to inform consumers about their rights and about responsible and sustainable consumption. i believe that the promotion of dispute resolution systems and legal aid, such as alternative dispute resolution procedures, will further increase consumer protection throughout the european union.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the european parliament agrees in principle with the report on a new european agenda for consumer protection policy. the commission is opposed to the introduction of a mechanism for collective actions, which is foreign to european legal systems and carries a high risk of abuse.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the european parliament agrees in principle with the report on a new european agenda for consumer protection policy. the commission is opposed to the introduction of a mechanism for collective actions, which is foreign to european legal systems and carries a high risk of abuse.
in writing. the fdp delegation in the european parliament agrees in principle with the report on a new european agenda for consumer protection policy. the commission is opposed to the introduction of a mechanism for collective actions, which is foreign to european legal systems and carries a high risk of abuse.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it is very important that intellectual property be protected more effectively and intensively than before, especially in a globalised world. intellectual property is a high value which the union must protect within an appropriate framework both inside and outside the union.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it improves a very important aspect of food law, namely the advertising and declaration of food for children and infants. here, third parties, namely parents and other adults, must make decisions on behalf of infants and young children. it is well known that there is no substitute for breast milk or breast-feeding. advertising must be as strict as this statement in the long run.
in writing. − heart attacks, cancers, complicated fractures ct scans are now a must in hospitals. more than 6 million people benefited from modern technology last year in germany alone. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to electromagnetic radiation. that's off the table, thank god! the plenary accepted our proposals today! this means a workable solution for patients and staff, providing workplace safety without banning modern life-saving technologies like ct scans from our hospitals.
in writing. - i rejected the report because it again preaches a 'saving the world' philosophy which has nothing to do with the reality of the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the report, and in particular for paragraph 23 of the report on the proposal by commissioner reding, because i am firmly convinced that women in management positions bring about improvements for women in business. youth unemployment in europe is currently at 23%. in my region, a german government project is being implemented to integrate young spaniards into the german labour market. the young men and women live in our village, and i firmly believe that all - spaniards and germans - will benefit from this project. language courses are offered and recruitment is based on professional qualifications in spain. women who are temporarily out of work for family reasons must be able to be seamlessly reintegrated into the labour market. a reduction in working hours for family reasons must not constitute a disadvantage. all citizens must have a right to education and the opportunity to expand their knowledge in order to acquire new skills. europe must break new ground in the field of continuing training.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i regard the asylum package now being adopted as a very positive development. firstly, after much discussion we have managed to agree on common minimum standards without trying to define every little detail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been guided by the need to give refugees protection as quickly as possible in accordance with the geneva convention, on the one hand, and on the other hand to make the difficult border crossing, to prevent the abuse that occurs through illegal and criminal trafficking in human beings or through illegal immigration within the eu. we want to give refugees the most solid and reasonable standards possible, which means that we guarantee them housing, shelter, food, drink, health care, education for children, and if asylum seekers are allowed to stay with us longer, or if they are refugees with us, they should be allowed to work in our labour markets and integrate as quickly as possible. we have tried to work together to ensure that procedures can be compact and rigorous, but at the same time that asylum seekers have the right to present their requests in a proper way. that is to say, we have really tried to go on a journey of self-reflection, to give refugees shelter, and at the same time not to succumb to the temptation to build up excessive visions that, under certain circumstances, the right of asylum can actually make good any injustice that has happened or is happening on this earth. we do what we can, but we don't try to give the impression that we can do more than we can do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this week could be an important week for people seeking protection in europe. this reform could put an end to the lottery of asylum, where the same refugees have very different chances of being granted asylum. it could put an end to the inadequate living conditions of refugees, the endless length of the procedures, the transit station of europe and the ideology of deterrence. but unfortunately, it's all about the conjunction. the asylum system remains a patchwork of europe. the rights of refugees are not being strengthened. there are dozens of exceptions to any good rule, so that even the incarceration of minors is not excluded. the commission's original proposals had given hope for the rights of refugees. parliament has also supported these proposals. unfortunately, the council has been too cautious and has opted for deterrence and defence rather than protection and integration. this is a testament to the poverty of the european union. the question of implementation remains unresolved. because a paper-based asylum system isn't helping anyone. as we have seen in the past, the minimum standards already in place are not even being implemented in many member states. the biggest flaw in the common asylum system is eurodac. people who come to us seeking protection from persecution are put in a corner with high-level criminals and criminals. those who seek protection from us, we push them into a corner and discriminate against them. it can't be. this is not a policy of asylum worthy of a nobel peace prize winner! we believe that the rights of refugees must be the focus, not a so-called security policy that links refugees to the concept of security, because people who seek protection with us are not a security threat, they are not terrorists, they are people like us. they need protection. we should put their rights at the centre and take their needs into account and finally create a common european asylum policy with common standards everywhere and for everyone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i think that no one would have thought that we could discuss asylum issues in this house in such a consensual way. that is why today is a good day, because today we can decide by consensus what we have worked on in recent years. it was important to us as the epp group as a whole that this was a further development of the right to asylum - not a revolution, but an evolution. we wanted to establish minimum standards for the displaced, for the people who need help. we wanted to combat abuse and we have made good progress. the citizens expect us to fight abuse because that is the only way to maintain acceptance of the asylum system. and we wanted to improve security in europe, so eurodac, the access to data to improve security in europe. what we have here today is a good compromise. as europeans, we can say that with this decision, we have one of the most modern refugee rights in the world. we should be proud of that. now is the time to implement. we'll ask the commissioner to look into it. she can be sure we're behind her. if it insists with the council, with the ministers, that the decisions be implemented, the european parliament will also support the commission. we must make progress on the readmission agreements, which are of enormous importance for the implementation of the right of asylum. i 'm telling you now: of course, we must also look to the future. the question of solidarity, of fair distribution, remains a subject in europe which we will have to discuss in the coming years. that is why we shall be able to keep this, as well as the whole question of asylum. congratulations to all of us! the debate will nevertheless remain exciting in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we talk about asylum, we must always be aware that we are talking about people. people who are on the run and who have left behind a terrible fate. asylum is a right that we have in the eu - and in many member states it is also enshrined in the constitution - and it is not a grace. that's why i want to throw some water on the wine today. i don't think this asylum package has worked out so well. it's very porous. we have certainly taken only a small step towards a common european asylum system with this package. i would just like to make a few points. the dublin system, for example. we are all more or less agreed that it is not working as it should. families are torn apart and live in different countries. they cannot be merged because that is the first-country principle. that is not compatible with human rights. we in the fdp reject the dublin system in general and want a distribution system. eurodac: again, we put people under general suspicion that these are criminals in general. i think that is unacceptable. and if we cannot agree on a procedural directive on what a safe third country is - that is, sweden defines 'safe third country' differently from germany or italy - what does that have to do with a common european asylum procedure? these are the points where i have to say we find it very difficult, and we see only a small progress. one point i would like to mention, because it is a very positive example, is the early entry into the labour market after nine months. it is precisely this access to the labour market that can give these people the opportunity to find their way back into life and also to integrate and design a new life. this is a really big step. i would like to ask the commission to implement not only the old but also the new directives in a really consistent manner and to make the member states responsible for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to confine myself to two aspects of the debate. the vote tomorrow is not the end of the matter. we must be careful in the implementation and enforcement to ensure that all the provisions are respected, and we should urge member states, particularly in the directives, to further improve these provisions in the interests of refugees wherever possible. secondly, in addition to asylum for those who are persecuted politically, there is protection for people fleeing war and civil strife. and there are people who are simply and passionately looking for a future and want to work with us. these issues must be formally settled separately. but in the political debate we must link them more closely together, because only then can we tackle what some of our colleagues have called abuse. an example. i do not understand why germany, for example, is looking for nurses in china, while at the same time people who are already here and want to work here are being sent back to an often uncertain future. let me say one last thing: mr weber, if you combine asylum and security in a half-assed way, you achieve exactly what mrs keller criticized, namely that refugees are put in a criminal corner. i'm sure that's not appropriate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i too would like to begin with the crucial sentence that asylum is a human right and not a right to pardon. i would like to stress that. in recent years, in the polemic and negative political debate, we have almost lost sight of the fact that this is an important achievement of the european union. when people flee from crisis areas, from unjust regimes or even from dictatorships, they are looking for protection, and that protection is a human right. we must also grant this right as the european union! the political rhetoric of recent years also feigns that we are dealing with masses of asylum seekers. my colleague flašíková beňová also mentioned this: in 2011, we had just 330,000 applications. this is just 0.6 ‰ compared to the eu population. the problem is dublin ii. in conclusion, i would like to say that all member states must, please, accept refugees in proportion to their size, because that is their duty and responsibility. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. of course, there are measurable and valid figures here. if we look at belgium, for example, with a population of 11 million people, it has 31 000 asylum applications. if i compare, belgium is in fourth place, compared to italy, which is six times larger. or if we look at the applications in estonia, they all get rejected. cyprus has received 1 770 applications. in terms of size, cyprus is very far ahead. in austria, 1 435 applications were submitted, and in sweden, 1 250. these are positive examples of how to move forward. another is that in finland there is an 80% chance of being accepted, while in spain or ireland, for example, there is a 90% chance of being rejected. i mean these inequalities. they will definitely need to be corrected in the future.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on behalf of the irish presidency, i would like to say how pleased i am that we have been able to reach agreement on the schengen governance legislative package. the agreement responds fully to the request from the european council in june 2011 for the existing evaluation mechanism to be improved and deepened, and for the introduction of a mechanism to respond to exceptional circumstances which could put the overall functioning of schengen cooperation at risk. the european council was equally clear that this should not jeopardise the principle of free movement of persons. we have therefore been guided in our work on these two legislative proposals by the need to protect and strengthen free movement. this is one of the most obvious and practical achievements of european integration over recent decades. free movement is highly valued, and is a daily reality for the 500 million citizens within the european union, as well as the nationals of third countries who are legally present in the schengen area as residents or visitors. those citizens and visitors make more than a billon journeys within the eu every year and consider freedom to travel as amongst the most concrete and important benefits of the union. that is why it is important that we have been able to strengthen arrangements for ensuring the proper functioning of the schengen area. the new reinforced schengen evaluation mechanism, combined with an eu-based mechanism for responding to exceptional threats, will contribute significantly to that goal, as well as improve the transparency of its operation. i am of course fully aware that the negotiations on these measures have not been easy. we started out with a fundamental difference of view on the issue of the legal base of the schengen evaluation proposal. but this has now been successfully addressed. i welcome the fact that we have been able to build on the work of earlier presidencies and find a way forward together. the difficulties have been overcome, and your views have been taken into account to the fullest extent possible on both measures. the overall agreement also comprises a joint declaration by parliament, the council and the commission which makes it clear that any future proposals from the commission for amending the schengen evaluation system will be submitted to parliament for consultative purposes, so that your opinion can be taken into account to the fullest extent possible before the adoption of a final text, as was the case with the current proposal. i would like to thank this parliament sincerely for the way in which it has cooperated and worked with us to reach agreement. i understand that your opinion on the schengen evaluation proposal was adopted yesterday in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and that this opens the way for parliament to vote on the full schengen governance package during tomorrow’s plenary session. i would like to close by expressing my particular thanks to the rapporteurs for the two legislative proposals – mrs renate weber and mr carlos coelho – whose commitment and hard work on these legislative proposals has been absolutely crucial to ensuring that an agreement was possible, so your contribution is very much appreciated by our presidency and by the council, as i know it is by all members in this chamber. i am very much looking forward to the debate and listening to the contributions from a range of members of the european parliament. i do have to beg your forgiveness, however, because i will have to depart early, unfortunately, on this occasion because we have a trialogue on the multiannual financial framework (mff) this evening, which i have to participate in. so thank you in advance for your indulgence and thank you again for the cooperation of parliament, the council and the commission, throughout this process.
member of the commission. − mr president, exactly a year ago, in this very chamber, we found ourselves in a very difficult situation. there were strong, very emotional tensions between the three institutions. today, a lot of time has passed. thanks to intensive negotiations between parliament – where you played a very strong and constructive role – the cyprus presidency and the irish presidency, we have reached a satisfactory agreement on the schengen governance. we now have instruments at hand which will allow us to strengthen schengen, and therefore the commission can fully support the compromise reached. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, carlos coelho and renate weber. i know how hard you worked with your different shadow rapporteurs and collaborators. you have been fantastic on this long road. the compromise reached will – as you have both said – bring a major improvement compared to the current system. as you know, there is already a mechanism in place to evaluate member states’ implementation of the schengen acquis. it has, however, been clear that this is not the mechanism that we need. we need a new one that ensures that the area without internal border controls is better protected, a system that is better equipped to identify deficiencies at an early stage and that ensures that there are appropriate measures and follow-ups. the revised mechanism will serve this purpose, while at the same time allowing more transparency and openness. in the new system, the commission is given a central and coordinating role. evaluation will be carried out by the commission, together with experts from the member states. if serious deficiencies emerge, the proposed new mechanism provides for specific measures that could be taken, for instance, the deployment of frontex european border guard teams. although it is very unlikely that these will occur, the new system also provides for a system to respond to situations where recommendations for remedial action are not sufficient. to ensure that persistent, serious deficiencies in a member state’s control of its external borders are adequately remedied, a new system allows for a coordinated decision to be taken on the temporary reintroduction of controls at internal borders. it is, however, clearly stated that this can only be an exceptional measure as a last resort in a truly critical situation. this would only be used to ensure that the problems can be resolved, while minimising the impact on free movement. the new system brings many advantages for parliament. parliament will have increased possibilities to influence the functioning of the schengen area. it will receive all relevant information, and both the commission and the council have expressed their political will to consult parliament on the schengen evaluation mechanism. the joint statement that will accompany the decision clearly states that any future proposal from the commission to amend the evaluation system will be submitted to parliament and that its opinion will be taken into consideration to the fullest extent possible before adopting the final text. i think that, with this clarification and this strengthening of both tools, we can be proud of the compromise that we have achieved. once again, as in the previous debate – i know many of you were there as well – it shows that, when we really sit together, the three institutions can cooperate for the benefit of the european citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the irish presidency has concluded two major internal affairs dossiers this week. we are entitled to discuss them today: asylum and schengen. the irish presidency has been a very successful presidency in our field of work. congratulations again on that! we are very happy that the mff is now succeeding in this, that great successes are to be achieved there, so that we can also make progress with the financial allocation, madam minister. the european people's party has always defended the schengen area as one of europe's greatest achievements, and we wanted to strengthen it. our rapporteurs, renate weber and carlos coelho, have done an excellent job in this area. thank you very much. we must speak clearly because the demagogues who are on the move in europe - le pen in france, wilders in the netherlands, jobbik in hungary and the ataka party in bulgaria - are right-wing populists who want to make people understand that we do not really need this schengen area, that security is in danger. we must oppose them with determination! we cannot leave the political arena to these partisan populists. schengen does not bring less security, but more. that is the key message, and by changing the law today, we will strengthen that development. these populists would take europe back to a dark past. the evaluation is progressing. this was described by our reporters. i am looking forward to the first reports from a neutral source. i hope that it will be critically examined so that we can have neutral reports on the table, where perhaps some of the home affairs ministers are not so happy that they have now handed the evaluation over to frontex and the commission. but that will strengthen the whole system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i still don't understand why the council is still blocking this. the principle of defending the council's powers in this way gives the impression that the council's backroom is still the place where decisions are taken alone and where there is no need for transparency. i cannot understand that, and that is why the european parliament will continue to fight for the rights of parliamentarians. we hope to have more success with this in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the abolition of internal borders and border controls is one of the eu's highest values. they are common goods of the union and cannot be left to the arbitrariness of governments. they are linked to a fundamental right within the eu, namely freedom of movement. if there are now so-called serious deficits, and we should make this clear, if the so-called new emergency clause is now effective in the implementation of schengen, because the member states of course include migration flows among the deficits, if such a system is now introduced, then this means that migrants are very much a reason to re-introduce border controls. this is a justification for reintroducing it. in this way, migrants become scapegoats for european politics. and we find that unacceptable. if you look at the structure, border controls can now continue for up to two years on the recommendation of the council. the commission is merely a sort of cleaner, a controller in the process. the european parliament has not even been able to take its seat at the catering table, so it is completely exempt from the community's task. we said goodbye, if you will. i say this even though i would like to express my deepest thanks and respect to both rapporteurs. you fought hard for two years. that's right, you're right. i am glad that at least an evaluation mechanism has been established which creates fairness between candidate countries and member states and more transparency. but still, we lost! i just hope this doesn't set a precedent for voluntarily booting out of parliament and giving up our own rights. schengen must not become a political pawn of governments or political forces! in that respect, unfortunately, we cannot accept a compromise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry to say that i do not see that this schengen reform is bringing benefits to the people of europe. the reform establishes another reason why internal borders can be closed. deficits at the external borders can mean anything or nothing. also, the fact that a country is admitting many migrants: is that a reason to close the internal borders? i think that this is further undermining the freedom of movement in europe. the decision to do so ultimately remains in national hands, although freedom of internal borders affects all europeans. the european parliament is not given the role it should have in the schengen evaluation either. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts. but in the end i have to say that a european and democratic reform of schengen has not succeeded. this is a great pity, because schengen is, after all, one of the pillars of the european union.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the matter we are now discussing is an extremely important one. the european commission has long been preparing to revise the fourth and seventh company law directives on balance sheet law, which form the basis of european balance sheet law, in the form of the accounting directive presented here. the key objective of this project has been to ensure that on the one hand there is greater harmonisation, because we still have a large number of member states' options under the existing accounting law in the european union, which of course inevitably leads to member states having made use of different possibilities and as a result there is not really a uniform accounting law in the european union. so the purpose is to make sure that we achieve a greater degree of commonality here, a greater degree of harmonization. this is a very important aspect. the second aspect is that there are a whole series of accounting obligations contained in old directives which have led to unnecessary bureaucratic burdens, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. there have been various minor amendments in the past - such as the amendment to the fourth directive on micro-enterprises - which were aimed precisely at reducing this bureaucracy and creating, so to speak, facilities for smes in the internal market. the commission has therefore clearly focused on the objective of a so-called small regime, i.e. a specific scheme for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. i think that is also a very crucial point that we are talking about here and that is of great importance. however, in addition to these two central concerns of the right draft, another issue has played a significant role in the political debate. that was the call for more transparency. in particular, the call for greater transparency in payments made to states and government agencies, in the context of the objective of fighting corruption and abuse in many states on the planet. we have had an intensive debate on this in parliament and also in the legal affairs committee. i do not want to hide the fact that in my personal view these questions of reporting project by project or country by country do not really belong in the law of balance sheets. i think it would be more appropriate to settle these matters elsewhere. that they belong regularly is correct. but they would rather be regulated in a kind of compliance policy, because they have nothing to do with balance sheet law. but that was not the majority view in the committee. the majority opinion in the committee was that the opportunity of the accounting directive should be used to solve this aspect as well. it is the rapporteur's job to bring majorities together. i therefore endorsed this majority view in the outcome, despite my reservations as to the principle. we have developed a position which i believe is appropriate, which meets the objective of greater transparency, but which does not lead to excessive burdens and which, by the way, is perhaps contrary to the system we are talking about here, but which is still within an acceptable framework. we've had difficult negotiations with the council. there was a lot of resistance from the governments in the council, particularly on this subject of project by project and country by country. in the end, a viable compromise was found here, and at the same time a review clause, which clearly states what the next steps should be, namely that the question of the application and extension of these transparency rules should be re-examined by the commission at a later date and then be the subject of further legislation if necessary. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the shadow committee and i think that this is a good result of the negotiations that we can present today. i shall ask the house to approve it later.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already made a number of proposals. bribery, corruption, and tax evasion have reached such levels that it is imperative that politicians act. we find these offences mainly in the extraction of raw materials and the extraction of wood. the amendment of the accounting and transparency directives is intended to facilitate and enable the prosecution of these offences by introducing country-by-country reporting. but we are moving on a very narrow line. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the transparency of the internal market. and i see this particularly in the way we have defined the scope of these new rules. of course, listed companies are. but what we call big companies are small in my opinion. 20 million in assets, 40 million in sales, 250 employees, that's not a big company. i hope that in three years' time the revision will perhaps lead to a correction of the definition which i believe was wrongly chosen. i'm glad to see the administrative easing. no quarterly reporting: good. i am pleased about the possibilities for smes: good. and i'm also pleased that my proposal for electronic reporting from 2020 has been accepted.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is now at last taking the lead in introducing a transparency obligation for payments to governments, particularly for the raw materials and wood industries. my group clearly welcomes this historic step, because corruption always involves two people. one to take, one to pay. with this new regulation, after years of struggle, we are finally shedding more light on the dark side of business. we would have liked to have gone further with an inta opinion. but some groups were not yet ready to really create a global standard of transparency. we wanted to see more data published, particularly on tax avoidance practices. it is not clear why the obligation to make payments transparent should not apply to all sectors. think of the pressing problem of land grabbing or the role of banks in these dubious transactions. france has just taken a step further and i call on other member states to follow suit. to the commission and to the many supporters of the publish what you pay campaign, i promise that we will also fight in the inta committee in the next legislature to introduce a comprehensive transparency obligation for all economic sectors.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i have negotiated many trilogues for our liberal group and i can say that these were the most difficult but also the most politically successful for our parliament. the first good news is that the eu will be the world leader in transparency in what is called country reporting. we've gone further than the united states. in future, our mineral industry, for example, when it mines ore on the african continent, will have to disclose payments in detail to any government agency. this is europe's contribution to the fight against corruption. the third world countries, which are richest in raw materials, are often among the poorest countries in the world, because the high incomes do not go to the citizens or to the construction of schools or roads, but go somewhere else. we were able to assert the following liberal demands: in the accounts of enterprises, calculations must be made on a project basis and not generally at national level. this will help to identify payments more easily. the commission has also proposed that the amounts to be reported should be from eur 100 000 onwards, rather than from eur 500 000 as originally requested by the member states. and there will be no exemption clause for countries where such reporting would allegedly be punishable by law. on several inquiries, neither the commission nor the member states were able to identify any states where such a criminal law exists. there was one point we couldn't get through. the scope of country reporting shall not be extended to industries other than the raw materials and wood industries. however, the commission will examine in three years' time whether expansion is appropriate, particularly in the banking, construction and telecommunications sectors. the second good news is that we have made the accounting and financial reporting requirements for small and micro enterprises much simpler, less bureaucratic and therefore cheaper. this was intended to help businesses in the crisis states of southern europe. it is all the more regrettable that they do not want to make use of the optional measures envisaged. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by smes.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, mr commissioner, thank you. i want to thank all participating colleagues, in particular the rapporteurs and the team involved in negotiating the result. i also want specially to thank the ngos and civil society which have ensured that pressure from outside parliament encouraged us to take up the responsibility in this directive, in particular the ngo publish what you pay, because of their struggle for the items included in our directive. but they have achieved only the first step. ecological and employment criteria form part of the responsibility we have to take into account. we also want to recognise that the requirement of country-by-country reporting of taxes and other financial data by companies in all sectors has to be included, and i guess that the discussion is just now under way among member states and the commission about extending financial transparency to all sectors, as i have already said earlier, especially to tackle the widespread tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance that costs governments billions of euros each year and which belongs to the theme we have been discussing here.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank those who have spoken on this text for giving it the widest possible support tomorrow, and as many of you have said, i will not mention all of them, i think that this is a very important signal to public opinion, which asks that we learn the lessons of all that has happened, of all these crises. one of the first lessons is that we know who is doing what, that we sometimes shine a light on people who don't like the light very much, that we move towards this duty of transparency. and at the same time, as president lehne said a moment ago, in the texts we are drawing up - and i hope you will believe that this is a concern i have day and night - without presenting many financial regulation texts, special attention is paid to small and mediumsized enterprises, so that they have the feeling - as i said to this house at the very beginning of my mandate - that this internal market is not only for the big and the big, but also for small businesses and for consumers. that is why i think the two texts which i hope you will adopt tomorrow are extremely important. wolf klinz and mr zwiefka have discussed this balance between the need for transparency and the requirements for companies. i think that we must find the right balance and i am trying to find it again, with the support of parliament, in many texts. i was discussing with othmar karas, your rapporteur, this major basel iii text on the recapitalisation of the 8 300 banks in the euro zone and the european union as a whole. we have found special provisions for small and mediumsized enterprises and i am trying to look for them in all our texts. i think the commission has shown that it is aware of this. we have shown this, mr president, in our proposal for a text - which will be discussed and which is also very important for transparency - on non-financial reporting, since we have proposed that these environmental and social transparency requirements be applied to companies with more than 500 employees. mr kamall and mr stolojan have just raised a particular point concerning accounting standards. there are developments - we'll talk about them again, if you like - within the iasb, the global institution that is located in london and that deals with this convergence. i've worked a lot and i'm very regularly involved in all the iasb meetings, and we've evolved this institution, to put more focus on impact studies, on consulting all the stakeholders, of which we are a part, and we had a fairly open discussion on this accounting standards issue at the ecofin council in november 2012. i have in fact entrusted mr stolojan with a mission to philippe maystadt - who is a wise and competent man - to work with me on a more global evolution of ifrs standards, on real convergence and on a better defence of european concerns, and i am very pleased that mr maystadt has accepted this mission. finally, many of you, sirpa pietikäinen, fiona hall, alexandra thein, helmut scholz, eva lichtenberger, mr ludvigsson and others - whom i apologize for not mentioning - have mentioned the need to go further. this was stated in the council conclusions. i immediately spoke in support of the very strong position of the european council, which wants all large european companies, whatever they are, to be forced to say how much they pay in taxes, where they pay them and to whom they pay them. i have just said in my first speech that i prefer to use the proposal i presented to you in april on non-financial reporting, so as not to compromise other texts which are coming to the vote. it is also a text on transparency, social and environmental responsibility of companies, and i am very grateful to your rapporteur, mr baldassarre, who was here earlier and spoke, for opening up this text to introduce an amendment which will take up the conclusions of the european council. i can officially confirm that the commission will support this amendment if your rapporteur and your parliament agree. i would also like to conclude by mentioning that this additional requirement for transparency, which aims to combat tax evasion and tax havens and to have good information, will complement all the work that my colleague algirdas šemeta, the commissioner responsible for taxation, is carrying out with great courage and determination on automatic exchange of information, on the fight against tax havens and on agreements with countries such as switzerland. this is a very determined work being carried out by the european commission under its auspices and we will complete and strengthen it, if you will, together, as soon as possible in our text on non-financial reporting with this obligation for all large european companies to be transparent in tax matters. in any case, i thank you in advance for the support you will give tomorrow to these two very important texts, both for smes and for transparency, which are proof that we can, when we want to, achieve administrative simplifications to encourage competitiveness and the european economy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to thank the members for this valuable and interesting debate. i would just like to summarize once again the main objectives that we are achieving with these proposals. firstly, we are achieving a significant reduction in red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises. that's good! secondly, we are increasing the degree of harmonization within the european union. that's good too! thirdly, we decide, and this is very important to me, that ifrs will not become a standard in europe for companies that are not listed on the stock exchange. i thought it would be a disaster if that happened, because ifrs are standards that promote volatility in markets and have significant additional costs and burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we are abolishing the mandatory quarterly reporting. i think that is also very important because this quarterly reporting has been a contributing factor to the volatility of the markets in europe. we are improving transparency and fighting corruption. it's an honorable thing to do. we are moving in this area on the standard of the sec in america, that is the american regulatory authority. that's good too! but i don't want to hide that i'm relatively skeptical that these regulations that we've decided on are really going to solve the problem of corruption in the world. we are making regulations for the good and not for the bad. the bad guys will continue to corrupt and bribe through third parties and black boxes. but we're adding to the effort for the good guys. this may be a bit more transparency, but it's not going to get rid of crime. those who want to bribe will be able to continue to do so without any problems, despite this directive.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on 12 june at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr antolín sánchez presedo, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on eu competition policy (com (2012) 0253 2012/2306 (ini)) (a7-0143/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 12 june at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (com (2012) 0332 - c7-0158/2012 - 2012/0162 (cod)) (a7-0144/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has made this proposal on the application of financial discipline because the calculation we made for the budget allocated for 2014 showed that we were under the ceiling for market measures, which were not sufficiently financed. why has the commission taken into account the amounts of the budgetary allocation provided for in the budgetary perspective proposed by the council actually adopted and decided by the european council and not those originally proposed by the commission? it is simply a matter of pragmatism. the commission's proposals could of course be used as a basis until the budgetary perspective was finally adopted by a vote in parliament. but it turned out that the heads of state and government decided to propose to parliament, for adoption - there are currently negotiations on this subject - lower figures than those proposed by the commission. for reasons of realism and pragmatism, and to send a signal to farmers that is closer to reality, we have taken into account the figures provided by one of the co-decision-makers, the council, but of course subject to the adoption of the budgetary perspectives. i say 'subject to', since this proposal for the application of financial discipline should be tabled by the commission. it should make this proposal so that farmers know what to expect next year. of course, we still have the possibility of adjusting the level of budgetary allocation proposed by the commission for financial discipline in the event of a decision, an agreement, on these figures - which we hope will be reached between parliament and the council. as you know, we usually draw up the letter of amendment to the draft budget in the second half of the year - in the autumn. on this occasion, if the council reaches agreement with parliament on the budgetary perspective by the autumn, we can take the final figures into account and incorporate them into the proposals for the implementation of this budgetary discipline. but to be realistic, we have preferred to take into account the figures which are closest to a possible decision. but again, "subject to". the commission has proposed this eur 5 000 rebate, i.e. to exempt from the application of this budgetary discipline - or a reduction - farmers who receive less than eur 5 000. why would you do that? to ensure a more balanced distribution of direct aid and to facilitate calculations, since we already apply a modulation for payments above eur 5 000, i.e. a reduction. it therefore seemed logical to us, since this modulation is not applied to farmers who have less than eur 5 000 a year, not to apply this eur 5 000 deduction either. this is consistent with what the commission has proposed for the reform of the common agricultural policy, which is currently being negotiated, in which we have proposed to maintain this franchise and thus protect small farmers. i would like to make this point in order to explain why we have proposed this budgetary discipline and why we have taken into account certain figures which we thought were closer to reality. it is better to give farmers a signal that is closer to reality. but, once again - i stress this - this proposal is subject to the adoption of the budgetary perspective by the council and parliament. of course, if this decision is not taken in time, we will have to apply other mechanisms under the regulation. but for the time being, this proposal is in the hands of parliament and the council.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on budgets, i shall focus on the financial aspects of the report. - as the commissioner has already pointed out, and as the rapporteur has also said - we are awaiting the adoption of the new mff, so we are not able to know today what resources are available under heading 2 of the budget and the level of the ceiling applicable to the budget in 2014 remains uncertain. until clarity is reached on the level of the ceiling, it will not be possible to determine whether an adjustment to the direct payments for 2013 is necessary. we therefore considered it appropriate to propose that the amount of the financial discipline be revised in the opinion given to the committee on budgets during the procedure for adopting the 2014 budget, taking into account, as the commissioner has also pointed out, the letter of amendment. i would add that in the event of no agreement on the mff, which is not excluded at this stage, no financial discipline will apply, since the amount will be calculated on the basis of the 2013 ceilings with a 2% increase to take account of inflation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner. the commission is planning to cut direct payments to european farmers next year and i think it is realistic that the commission is dealing with a declining agricultural budget. we are still fighting for budgetary stability, of course, but whatever the outcome, we must establish a mechanism. what happens if the budget is overdrawn? we have, after all, also provided for a similar system in the common organization of the market. that is why i find it increasingly exciting and important to discuss this here today. and as comprehensible and understandable as the so-called financial discipline is, the more incomprehensible to me is the mechanism by which the money is collected. i still define myself as a specialist politician, i.e. i want to analyse and evaluate my political decisions in a professional way. the commissioner's recommendation is that no reduction should be made for all farms up to 5 000 euros. what sounds logical and understandable in itself, naturally has the effect of creating a huge imbalance in the repayments in the member states. i cannot understand why we should allow some countries to contribute little or nothing to the financing of the additional expenditure on agriculture because of the structure of their farms. for example, france has to pay four times as much as poland. how are we going to explain this to the farmers? is that fair? i repeat: it is a question of relations between brussels and the member states. in other words, what incentive do these countries have to save money if they do not have to pay for the additional expenditure or are under-compensated? it's just not fair. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fairest system for me is that if the brussels budget needs money, we should cut linearly. i would remind colleagues that in the negotiating mandate for the reform we already advocated a linear application of financial discipline for the new funding period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore strongly support the idea that next year direct payments should be reduced in the same way in all the member states, i.e. in a linear fashion. this would also mean that the cuts would be smaller in all countries, and thus create a clear incentive to use the available resources as effectively and efficiently as possible. the financial discipline mechanism will be of considerable importance, given that the new period of assistance will involve substantial additional expenditure from the european order of markets and the crisis reserve. it is therefore only right that all farmers in europe should share equally in the financing of these costs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the multiannual financial framework is still not completed. we are still failing to achieve the respect for the european citizens that this parliament deserves, because we speak for them, are elected by them and represent them. we must now decide on the future budget on the basis of estimates, and this requires financial discipline in the agricultural budget, that is to say, a reduction in the agricultural budget. if we're talking about this, it's obvious to me that everyone here is treated equally before the law. this means that all farmers have the same right and the same duty. and accordingly it only makes sense to cut here linearly, i.e. to charge each member state with the same percentage. for discipline also means that all should be equally concerned about handling their money properly. and we will not achieve this by treating individual countries with less severe discipline than others. it cannot be that in europe it is becoming more and more fashionable to think in black and white, to decide whether large structures or smaller structures are good or bad. this is the wrong signal for europe, it is dangerous, and it is also dangerous for the european idea. because we should all work together to make sure that we all get to the same place. and that means we're also equally burdened. and that also includes a linear reduction, that is to say that we do not exclude in principle those companies whose turnover is less than 5 000 euros. we must be quite frank, even small farms need to learn that there are fewer payments to farmers in the long term. and if we look at the long term and plan for the long term, then we know that it's going to be less. and then there is no point in playing the small companies, everything stays the same and only the big companies are left to bear the burden. this is causing a rift among farmers. it is a real dispute among farmers and it is promoting this constant black and white thinking which is being discussed in public and which is not good for the european idea as a whole.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i want to be very clear here. we can list all the files which again have not been dealt with yet by the council and i would appreciate a direct exchange. the list is very clear and nobody can deny that there is a problem. the commission has swiftly drafted a long list of proposals needed and many of them are not being dealt with in the council. to be very clear: i do not think that is the responsibility of the irish presidency. the irish presidency is doing a good job – and therefore please do not misunderstand our criticism – but, just because you are doing a good job, do not move to denial. the reality is you do not achieve consensus and a common position on enough files. what should you do from our perspective? i think that in order not to put the good image of europe at risk, you should change your working method. stop listening to the industry in the respective countries and find consensus in an intergovernmental mode which is not the basis of the european treaties. start voting as we do, not shadow voting until you have achieved some sort of a balance. move to real votes if you cannot move fast. move to a truly european method; that is what we citizens expect. it is not acceptable that the lithuanian presidency now coming in is demanding help from parliament in prioritising, which means that important issues of consumer protection – such as ucits v, prips, ics – will fall off the legislative agenda. therefore, the real question is: how will the council change its working methods so that you are able to achieve consensus or a position at least on all the different issues which are on the table and needed by citizens. that is the question you have to answer. the list is here in the resolution. please bring us a solution, do not move to denial, accept that there is a problem and, as the presidency, on the basis of your experience and with the good work you have done in the structures you have, propose a solution to these problems. we cannot accept that financial services files will not be finished during this mandate.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if you talk to citizens, to voters, on the ground, they ask you, in the fifth year of the crisis, what have we done as politicians to finally get out of the crisis in the fifth year? it is also worth noting that we have dealt with several dozen dossiers in the european parliament. i believe that in many cases parliament has put forward solutions which are quite workable and also in the interests of the citizens, even if we differ in detail. the citizens will not understand why this has not reached them yet. i would say to them: 'well, most of what we worked out in parliament is stuck in the council. they do not understand why this is being fixed in the council. this is a problem we must solve urgently. perhaps this delay we are dealing with here and which we are discussing this morning has something to do with the lack of transparency in the council's work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i hope that we can find a good and quick solution, and we would also like to see the remaining dossiers completed by the end of the legislative period and finally put into effect.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 27 and 28 june 2013 (2012/2807 ((rsp)).
mr president, i understand that you want to address this. but it has nothing to do with our debate. i'm sorry about that. you cannot abuse the rules of procedure to make political statements. i understand that you want to protest against a measure of your government, but you can not just take the floor here. i can't do that. you must also adhere to minimum standards in this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it seems that the group chairmen have agreed to put an end to the 'emperor's new clothes' in the european parliament. the phrase 'the crisis is over' is one we have heard many times. i think since 2008, since the lehman crash, dozens of times, and no one here can sign that sentence. the question is whether the council really needs to be asked in principle what these false messages mean. i do not want to repeat what mr verhofstadt has just said. i want to speak about the political crisis in the european union, but i also want to venture a little bit outside, because the inability to agree internally on the path of integration on a more common economic policy leads to complete irresponsibility towards the outside world. we europeans have not been able to agree on a majority position and joint action in libya. we have failed again in syria. we are not capable of promoting a common european policy abroad. there are all these bigoted complaints about mr. erdogan since he's been acting really authoritarian against protesters. what is the record of the europeans who have been sneaking out of their responsibility to turkey for years? what does this criticism of erdogan that i am hearing from many capitals mean when we are relying on mr erdogan for humanitarian aid to refugees from syria? what does it mean when i hear your messages from moscow about the summit with russia that everything went fine, and at the same time the most important neighbor, the larger neighbor on this continent is turning more and more into an authoritarian regime and in order to then eliminate this whole line internally in europe that the police have closed down all the frequencies of public broadcasting in greece last night after a surprising decision? my god, i think with images like this that i've seen from greece, i don't think that the crisis is over, but i think that we are steering deeper and deeper into the crisis and from the inability to take the steps towards economic integration, the deepest european political crisis in a long time has emerged. (applause from the centre) what am i supposed to say at this point? the commission this is the magic formula for deeper economic and political integration of the european union, which no one outside europe can understand. what's the matter? the point is still that we agree beyond the austerity policy that we must make our economic decisions in a shared responsibility, and that we have been discussing the banking union for months and actually get a very clear stop signal from paris from hollande and merkel. what's that supposed to mean? what does it mean for the council when it is again bravely discussing this fully fledged european monetary union, but the most important leaders of the european union have already agreed once again that they actually want more intergovernmentalism and less europe. i have thought a lot about mrs merkel and her strategy in recent years. sometimes i thought i understood her. today, i think i no longer understand that there is no one in germany - neither at the top of the government nor in the government - who makes it clear to the germans that if they withdraw from the common responsibility in the european union, they will not only divide the european union and question the great achievements of the european union, but that they will also consistently question german successes, including political successes, the current state of german society, what we have achieved in europe in terms of democracy as germans, as well as the economic success of the european union. the german government, but also others, are sawing the branch on which we all sit in preparation for this summit. i will be in greece tomorrow. i'll work with the journalists in greece to counter what samaras has decided.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to ask, without going into excessive polemics, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, whether you can still sleep soundly at night. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it went wrong, it was run into the wall, it failed. the imf report on the failure of the troika in greece, for example, shows that this is the case, because of false assumptions, false data, false forecasts and completely wrong policies, which have led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion. the closure of the greek state broadcasters is a further example of this, and this is to be understood symbolically. this is more than just a process where something is closed. i think that solidarity with journalists, with the staff of the broadcasters and also with the people of greece who are facing this disaster is good for our parliament, and i would like to express it here on behalf of my group. but the lawsuit against the ecb in karlsruhe is also to be taken very seriously! we have always demanded, we want the ecb to act as a lender of last resort. but if it does not have the appropriate legal basis in the treaty, then this is also a failure of the political institutions in the first place. this will have far-reaching consequences; it is not a lawsuit that can be just sitting out. i wonder whether the council will also be asking these very questions, whether it will be looking at them very carefully, in order to eventually correct policy. in addition, there is a tension between the european parliament and the council. it is no longer conceivable that we should have a constant expansion of the union method. mrs merkel can explain what she wants. it can speak as it wishes about the role of the european parliament. the fact is that the hollande-merkel paper also talks about the extension of intergovernmental cooperation, and this is bypassing the european parliament! we can see this in the multiannual financial framework, for example. it is being done as if the february resolution were a legal basis! but this is nothing more than a council decision which we must now negotiate with each other. instead, we are constantly faced with new blackmail schemes and blockages in negotiations. this is no longer cooperation, but a power vesting, a power of the council which escapes all political and democratic control. that is a fact, and we must deal with it! i 'll also make it clear: they also talk about creating new mechanisms for incentive funds. yeah, where's the money coming from? are they excluded from the current mfr? where did they come from? what is it you keep bringing up? they are forcing us as a parliament to agree to a deficit union! you're forcing us to do something that's not even contractually warranted. this can't be happening! and this form of cooperation is no longer tenable. so what will you do in concrete terms, including with regard to the social dimension of emu? it is a question of maintaining the freedom of contract of the social partners, it is a question of - and i regret to say that i have not read or heard anything about this - the inclusion of the social progress clause in the treaties. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council and parliament. this cannot and must not happen again! we need a clear break with austerity! interventions in wage and social policy must be reduced! the recommendations in the hollande-merkel paper to create a common labour market at a low level are an outrage! instead, the federal republic of germany must finally do something to ensure that the minimum wage is finally raised and that wage dumping in the federal republic of germany is stopped! there is a beautiful german proverb which says: "it is good to ride through fire on the ass of a stranger", so that the federal republic of germany is coming through the crisis at the expense of others!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. if we want to get out of crises, it is not helpful to debate turkey or campaign in germany or talk about greek radio, but to think about what the president of the commission has just said, namely, what measures have done something and where do we need to look? people don't want rhetoric, new programs and more and more demands for more money. this is all stupid stuff. they want concrete action. the truth is that what has been decided so far has proved successful! it is not as fast as we would like, but that is not surprising, because if you want to be frugal, if you want to make structural policies, if you want to make structural reforms, it takes a little while. it's only natural. the fact that we are now dealing with concrete issues, namely how to get low-interest loans to medium-sized enterprises, means that we must do this in practice and not talk about turkey or greek radio, such a quark! this is really absurd, what is being done here. we confuse people more than we give them hope. concrete aid: how do companies obtain credit? the following measures are to be taken: what are such youth unemployment programmes like? how do we get education to improve? what can we do about the erasmus programme? what are we doing, for example, with transnational networks in the field of the internet and energy policy? are we doing anything? let us ensure that the funds are released as soon as possible, that we finally get our heads together on medium-term financial planning so that something can be done. but this eternal talk, how evil the world! to talk about any problems that exist anywhere in the world, i'm sorry, that's irresponsible. i'm afraid we'll have to go one piece at a time, project by project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr reul. since you have been so specific, i would like to ask you specifically: in order to make it easier for smes to access finance, are you in favour of raising the limit for crowdfunding projects in europe to one million? do you support the eib and other infrastructure banks participating in structured covered bonds and linking this to the banks' commitment to increase their sme financing?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr bütikofer, i am very much in favour of using all the instruments we have to help smes to obtain funds quickly and as easily as possible. i'm with you 100 percent. the european central bank has an important role to play in this. i think there are things that can be improved. intergovernmental possibilities can also be developed. i have no problem with that at all if, in connection with what we are doing at european level, very specific agreements are also being made between the states, for example on how to ensure that such refinancing possibilities are opened up. i'm totally open.
mr president, madam minister, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is not the first time we've spoken to each other in this way. we shall be sitting here for two or three hours, but you have never heard so clearly from all the groups that colleagues are dissatisfied. this discontent is very clearly directed at this summit. it will not advance with anything, not with the fight against youth unemployment, not with more investment, not with a deepening of economic policy. i am afraid that if you reply later, your answers will have nothing to do with what we have discussed here, but will be based on what your services have written for you. they'll refuse to answer again. i'm asking you to be a little more courageous today. just tell us why it's not going ahead. who's blocking the way? who is responsible for the fact that we talk about a policy to combat youth unemployment month after month and then perhaps after a year and a half we come to the point of implementing it, of putting it into practice? tell us the truth, because otherwise it has nothing to do with democracy and the control of those in power. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and we are all aware of the need for a new approach to the problem of the internal market. we want to be involved in the decision-making on economic policy in southern europe, which is being dictated by the troika. we want to be involved in deciding what we are going to do with the planning of the semester and what we are going to ask the member states to do. only then will the policy really take effect. tell us about it. do you agree with this parliament taking on a new role, or do you not agree with it? we have one more opponent in the debate before the next european elections, because we know that the majority in the council is fighting against democracy in europe.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome to the podium the newly elected president of the european economic and social committee, mr henri malosse. welcome to the club, mr malosse. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
mrs lulling, i have listened to your statement very carefully. we have of course long wondered whether this amendment was admissible. i also declared it to be permissible. the 12 hearings you mentioned were not the subject of the 2012 proceedings before the european court of justice in election years. the court of justice ruled in 1997 in article 33 of its judgment on the meetings held in election years. the court of justice has clearly stated that eleven sittings are permissible because the five days which are considered as election days are considered to be advantageous to parliament in that it only has to hold eleven sittings in strasbourg in those years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that settles it.
it is a great honour, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome the president of the portuguese republic, mr aníbal cavaco silva. mr president, welcome to the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, we have the extraordinary situation of having two of the personalities who played a decisive role in bringing portugal into the european union, and who had an enormous influence on the integration of the country into our union during the first decade of portugal's membership of the european union, with us today in different roles than they had then. aníbal cavaco silva was then prime minister of portugal, and josé manuel durão barroso was first secretary of state, then foreign minister and then prime minister of portugal. both men were responsible for your country at a particularly important stage of european integration. it is therefore a pleasure for both of them to meet again in various capacities here in the european parliament. i would like to welcome you, mr president cavaco silva. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the delegation of the president of the republic, mr cavaco silva. (applause from the centre)
i thank you very much, mr president, for your words. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr cavaco silva once again on behalf of all of you. mr president, you have expressed your understanding for the impasse in the budgetary negotiations with the council. i would like to thank you on behalf of many colleagues. we are also encouraged by the fact that a head of state here explicitly recognizes the rights of a parliament as a budgetary institution. we would like to see more of your colleagues in the european council who share the same view. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i do not agree with the proposed calendar of meetings. what is being presented to us here is not a schedule of sittings as required by the work of a modern parliament. it does not answer the question of how we can work in the most efficient, transparent, citizen-friendly and democratic way possible, nor why we should continue to shuttle thousands of people between two fully equipped parliamentary seats. it perpetuates the senseless commuting between strasbourg and brussels. this is a disproportionate cost, has a significant environmental impact and is rejected by a majority of citizens and meps. he's also putting an unbearable strain on our work. instead of travelling back and forth between different places of sitting, meps should have more time for meetings with citizens and for good legislative work. and instead of rigid group and committee weeks in brussels and plenary weeks in strasbourg, parliament should be able to adjust its agenda to the needs of the case and, if necessary, hold committee, group and plenary meetings within a week. the voting procedure does not meet democratic standards either. the president declared the agenda adopted without a vote after the rejection of mr lulling's amendment. why would you do that? afraid of rejection? we can't work like this. we are the european parliament! the freely elected representatives of the people! we should start taking ourselves, our task and the mandate of our citizens seriously.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. parliament has taken very good decisions on sustainable fishing, including in international waters. but if the system is to work, then everyone must feel treated equally. this also means that, of course, we must take a firm stance against illegal fishing. otherwise, the old saying applies: the honest man is the fool in the system. i can't do that. that means the system has to be traceable. it has to be fair. controls are possible. i understood yesterday that it is particularly difficult to enforce sanctions against third countries. i would like to ask the commission once again to hold bilateral negotiations and, if all this does not help, to use means such as public mobilisation so that these things are no longer done in secret. illegal fishing harms honest fishermen and also nature and fish stocks.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report because it is finally starting to establish a minimum standard for asylum seekers. the aim is not to reject asylum seekers, but to develop a similar or identical reception culture in all countries and to standardize the living conditions of asylum seekers so that there are no preferred countries in the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 20 million people in europe below the poverty line - that is a really bad sign. it would have been sensible to have started with the food fund and the question of how we deal with food waste, instead of suddenly creating a new fund where there is a lot of money involved, where dreams are involved and where we are investing in the wrong place. i think it is wrong to oblige the member states to do what they could decide for themselves. that is why i supported the amendments which dealt with voluntary work in the member states. it is good that we have postponed the final vote, so that perhaps we can pass on something useful in the discussions with the european commission and the council. i would like to say again that i believe the fund can help, but we must leave the decisionmaking to the member states. only they know how best to use the funds, not the eu.
in writing. - like many of my colleagues from the cdu/csu group, i voted against the amended proposal for an eu aid fund for the needy. there is no question that those most affected by poverty need support. but my colleagues and i do not believe that the eu should be the one to provide financial support for this. that is why we voted against a compulsory participation of all member states in the new aid fund. the fund is to be financed from the european social fund of all eu member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not prepared to accept any such commitment. in countries where there are functioning social networks and effective poverty reduction is carried out at local, regional and national level, these social fund funds can be better used for social inclusion through employment promotion. that is the original purpose of the european social fund. that is why i, like many of my cdu/csu colleagues, voted in favour of the amendments calling for voluntary participation by the member states.
in writing. - i rejected this report because it does not explicitly take account of the voluntary nature of the benefits. if these benefits are granted, they must come from the esf, and there must be no new pot to be opened. social benefits of any kind are to be regulated on a subsidiary basis.
in writing. - i voted against the draft report by mr capoulas santos because the text now contains a passage in article 1 (1) which i cannot agree with. the application of budgetary discipline should provide for a linear reduction of all direct payments, and not only for those recipients receiving more than eur 5000, with a view to ensuring equal treatment of all beneficiaries, especially as this would result in a unilateral burden on a group of member states.
in writing. - i rejected the report. the 500 euro limit is a favour for hobby farmers who do not have to live off farm money. a cap should be linear. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide aid to the poorest farmers in the community. finally, their social security depends on the agricultural payments. here the others voted at the expense of germany and its specific agricultural structure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the csu-europe group, i should like to explain our vote on the resolution on the social investment pact tabled by the french socialist, mrs berès. i think it is also urgently in need of an explanation. we are disappointed with this package and cannot and could not agree to it. it is always surprising how uncreatively some people in the european parliament say: everything that is organised centrally in brussels is great, better than at home. this is the wrong approach. our local authorities, regions, communities, national governments and above all our social partners, i.e. employers and trade unions, can do much better in looking at how we invest and get back to more jobs and growth and thus offer prospects to our young people in particular. the package of measures we have adopted today against the csu votes is an attempt to infiltrate the member states, our regions and local authorities. i therefore ask myself, first of all, why should 50% of the esf's structural funds be tied to this package? we voted in a completely different way here, and as you know, trilogue negotiations are currently under way. so the negotiations are under way and we are disrupting them with this decision today. that is why we could not agree to this today.
in writing. - i rejected the report. here again marxist theories of well-being are described, which have nothing to do with the real life in our states. concrete solutions to problems on the ground in small, manageable units are one of the solutions for the future, not large-scale programmes where three quarters of the programmes fail.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament's economic affairs committee working group, i very much welcome the clear statement in the report by mr sánchez presedo that effective action by the european commission against dominant positions or cartels is in the interests of consumers. this is often not the case in public debate. at the same time, the reform proposals of the european commission on european state aid law are also to be welcomed. in our view, they help to concentrate the european commission's controls on those cases which are essential for distortions in the internal market. this is in line with the principle of solidarity and helps to use existing resources effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. on the one hand, state aid is inadmissible, and on the other hand, under the proposal for the resolution of banks, which we expect, financing of banks by the esm will only be allowed in an absolute exceptional case. this could, in extreme cases, lead to the case that banks in difficulty actually end up having to be wound up completely.
in writing. - i voted today for the resolution on youth unemployment, because youth unemployment is the evil of our time. we must be alarmed by the fact that more than five million young people are unable to find work. some regions in southern europe have shocking numbers of young unemployed. it is therefore right that we also tackle the problem at european level. i am even more pleased that our german chancellor, angela merkel, has made youth unemployment a top priority in europe. it is not about acting like she knows better - her role is that of a presenter. i think it is crucial that we do not pretend that we can solve the problem of youth unemployment in brussels. let 's face it . even 6 billion euros is just a drop in the bucket. concepts such as the german dual training system can certainly make a contribution - not simply 'copy & paste', but implemented in building blocks throughout europe. my home country of bavaria is now in the fortunate position of having full employment. however, we have never promised this to the people in a grandiose 'youth guarantee'. we worked hard for this. i wish every young person in europe a job - and i hope that europe will contribute to this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, as you said, it is in many ways a sad situation. can i say to the distinguished members of the european parliament that i am very grateful for the discussions i have had with some of you in the course of the last two days here? as you will have seen, last night turkish police launched a major offensive to remove protestors from taksim square in istanbul. there was intensive use of water cannon and tear gas, and violent scenes in ankara and izmir too. there are reports of widespread injuries. once again, police tactics are a major cause of concern. i have followed events closely from the start and have issued two statements, one through my spokesperson and then one directly myself on 9 june. last night i spoke to foreign minister davutoğlu. throughout, i have coordinated closely with my colleague and dear friend commissioner füle, who was on the ground in turkey last week. he was meeting with the prime minister as well as with civil society representatives, and many of you will have seen what he said and the speeches that he gave. i pay tribute to his work, not just then but always. it is fair to say that we have seen too many examples of excessive police force over these last two weeks: the close-range use of tear gas, water cannons, pepper spray and plastic bullets against protestors who have been overwhelmingly peaceful. several thousand have been injured, dozens of them severely. some have lost their sight due to excessive use of tear gas and pepper spray. and at least three have died. for their families, a serious situation has become a tragedy. i express again, on behalf of myself, of štefan füle and of you, deep sympathies to the bereaved and injured. we have been very clear in our statements, and i repeat again that excessive use of force by members of the police against peaceful demonstrators must be swiftly and thoroughly investigated, and those responsible held accountable. the environmental concerns of the initial demonstrators have developed into the wider concerns of a significant portion of society who feel that their voice is not heard in turkish politics today. there is a real polarisation of opinion. major akp rallies in istanbul and ankara this weekend could risk adding to the tension when we need to see a de-escalation. the answer, as we have said, is engagement, not antagonism. president gül’s call for peace and dialogue has been an important voice of moderation. deputy prime minister arinc has met union leaders and representatives of the protestors, and has promised that lessons will be learned about the need for greater public dialogue in future. prime minister erdoğan is due to meet representatives of the protestors today. this is an important opportunity to find a way forward based on dialogue, tolerance and mutual respect. we know that turkey, as a candidate country, needs to aspire to the highest possible democratic standards and practices. these include the freedom to express opinion and assemble peacefully, freedom for the media and freedom of religion, belief and thought. democratically elected governments – even the most successful of them, which have enjoyed three election victories and have half the population’s support – still need to take account of the needs and expectations of those who do not feel represented. and peaceful demonstrations are a legitimate way for such groups to express their views. i have also been surprised by the initially sparse domestic media coverage given to the demonstrations in turkey, and by attempts to condemn and restrict the use of social media, which has been the prime form of communication throughout. freedom of the media is a concern in turkey. it is right that the european union should champion it as a channel to exercise freedom of speech. social media, too, should not be seen primarily as a source of problems, but as a valuable conduit for communication, legitimate protest and dialogue. this is an important moment for turkey and a chance for it to renew its commitment to european values and to embrace a culture which values diverse opinion, different lifestyles, and open debate. turkey’s reforms over these past years have already been truly impressive. and let us remember that it is this turkish government that has shown statesmanship, vision and bravery in embarking on a peace process to resolve the kurdish question. i am convinced it can meet this challenge too, and use this moment to take further steps forward in expanding fundamental rights and freedoms. this is not the moment to disengage from turkey but to engage more closely. and for turkey to engage more closely with the eu too. my own foreign policy dialogue with turkey is increasingly close and fruitful. i visited ankara in april. president van rompuy visited in may. our dialogue at the highest level must be kept up, all the more so when times are more challenging. last december’s council stressed the importance of active and credible accession negotiations, and the need for those negotiations to regain momentum. we are on course to open a new negotiating chapter this month, and are within reach of a new visa dialogue and the signature of readmission agreements. in light of current events, we should engage with turkey more on these negotiating chapters, most fundamental to its reform efforts. our relationship with turkey gives us a real opportunity to influence it, if we use it. we need to make the most of all the tools we have. and turkey needs to work with us. it is clear to me that the case for engagement is doubly compelling now.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr verhofstadt. the csu meps are calling for the immediate halt of the accession negotiations because turkey is not a european country and, as you yourself have said, is falling further and further short of the criteria. that is why i put this question. as a pan-european, i am a european federalist like you. i would like to ask you: when will you give up the lie that you could simultaneously create a european federation and take in a non-european country such as turkey?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the events of the past few days in turkey have been a serious setback for the rule of law in the country. it is also a setback for turkey on its way to europe. but on the other hand, they are a great step forward for turkish civil society, which is much more plural and heterogeneous than prime minister erdoğan is willing to admit. there were protests: old and young, believers and non-believers, liberals, environmentalists, trade unionists, yes remarkable for istanbul even supporters of fenerbahçe, beşiktaş and galatasaray together. these protesters are the winners, the government is the losers. we want the government to know how many have been arrested. how many journalists, how many lawyers, how many protesters, how many students are in prison? we demand the release of those wrongfully detained. we demand the rule of law. it is the only way this country can continue its journey to europe. mr swoboda said here that mr erdoğan must change. ladies and gentlemen, we are not having a psychological debate here. it's not a question of whether a man changes or not. we have political debates. it is turkey that must change. the political system in turkey must make it possible for civil society actors to see their will represented. there is a 10% barrier to entry to the parliament, otherwise you cannot get in. we need a different political culture in turkey, a political culture in which the dictatorship of the majority does not prevail, but in which minorities are respected and included in the formulation of policy. i therefore say quite clearly: yes, we must continue to have a dialogue with turkey. i agree with catherine ashton. the dialogue must continue. but i also want to say this: today is not the day to talk about chapters. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. that's not the issue today. now these people must be released, now turkey must bring about a change in its political culture and its political system!
mr president, the violence against the people in gezi park, taksim square and elsewhere in turkey is simply not acceptable. peaceful protesters have been beaten up, tear-gassed, injured in their thousands and have been massively arrested; some have even died. the police are arresting people simply because they spread news and use social media. all promises of dialogue have been empty promises so far. i urge the high representative as well as the commissioner to step up their efforts to use all tools to pressurise the turkish government to stop their authoritarian rule and the violence. the turkish government needs to realise that there is a great chance for them in the protests if they embrace pluralism, if they encourage civil society and if they involve the population but going against the human and citizens’ rights of environmentalists, students, lawyers, workers, artists and everybody is going in completely the wrong direction. the people in turkey need our support and we have to give them a very strong signal of our support and a very strong signal that the european union will not accept such violence.
mr president, madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the actions in turkey against human rights, against demonstrators are intolerable and must be rejected! enough has been said about that. but what has led to this number of protesters? it has been mentioned that there are more journalists in prison than ever before. we were supposed to help establish the rule of law and push back the military, and we are coming to a result that is no longer like the old atatürk regime. this has been said rather little. i sometimes get the impression that europe has been used to remove the old barriers and then to achieve its own goals, which large sections of society, who want a secular society, then no longer want. this is a revolt of secular, non-islamic turkey, which together with the internet generation, together with environmental movements, wants to have a modern turkey, and therefore it seems to me that unilateral betting on erdogan was not the right way for our policy. that is also a question i am asking here. can we expand on this at this moment? i think we need to continue negotiating with turkey, we need to find new ways, alternatives to full membership, the norway solution. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the peace process. turkey is a strategically important country, but clearly not suited to full membership. we must find ways of doing this, and we cannot say that we are going to continue as before. if we start a new chapter now, it's an insult to the people who went to prison. you'll have to postpone that a bit. we must find new ways to have a modern turkey that does not look to the east, but a turkey that is more connected to the west, but that is connected to human rights. we must not overburden them with membership negotiations, but should seek a norwegian solution, a european economic area plus. that seems to me to be the alternative.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dealing with a government in turkey which, unfortunately, is very far removed from reality and has a one-sided view of the situation. we have a government that lacks self-reflection. this is indeed a moment when one has to ask whether the government of turkey can be so blind. i would like to make a point, madam high representative, and ask you for something. it is well known that prime minister erdogan is surrounded by hardliners, advisers who in some ways always move him in that direction. at this point, it's important that you both also go through your contacts to foreign minister davutoglu and offer a european mediation. i think that former chancellor gerhard schröder, who has good contacts with mr erdogan, could be useful here. we should at least open up the channels of perception, because the way things are in turkey, one is actually acting against the other. we must also think about the fact that the minorities in turkey are also afraid. let me just put one more sentence in that right corner up there. they are the last to be heard by the turkish government.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is indeed at a crossroads. the next few days and weeks will decide which direction mr erdoğan and his akp will take. but now to call again, in a prayer-mill fashion, for the negotiations to be stopped, that is precisely what he may want, what the islamists want, what those who want to destroy democratic structures want. those who are putting this forward again in a prayer-mill way are part of this campaign. let's not kid ourselves. they will be the first to undermine the democratic movements if they are in power. that is the way they interpret democracy! the crucial thing is that we now strengthen the democratic forces there. it is not a question of - and mr lambsdorff is absolutely right - opening a new chapter tomorrow, but we must now be clear that we are empowering the people who want a secular system, who want a democratic system, who want participation, and not putting them in the other corner and saying: we are playing the game of others. we're called upon. we expect the commissioner ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. in the heated debate on turkey's accession, i take a reserved position: i think we must first solve our current problems in the eu before we open the doors to new member states. the european union should therefore wait for further enlargement after the accession of croatia on 1 july 2013. democracy and the rule of law are paramount in european countries. in my opinion, the current events in turkey are not in line with our idea of freedom of expression in a democracy. the european union should nevertheless continue to support the reform process in turkey.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we reached an agreement in madrid at that time whereby the european parliament, the commission, the council and the high commissioner agreed to set up an external service. an external service to support this newly created position of 'high representative/vice-president of the commission'. the commission's powers and those of the council should be combined without changing the powers of the commission or the council, in order to arrive at a common european policy, a one-voice policy. the aim was to achieve the necessary synergy effects which were not possible with the three-position system. today we can say: the glass is half empty or it is half full. i think it's half full. we must see that in these two and a half years of construction, an incredible amount has been achieved. baroness ashton, i think you have made important contributions in a number of areas - examples of which are serbia and kosovo. but i still see the engine rattling in the close cooperation between the foreign service and the commission. the commission's role as vice-president is perhaps not even known to the commission itself. also because there are fears of losing something. it is therefore clear that the neighbourhood policy, which is a community policy, is not being transferred exclusively to the foreign service and subjected to intergovernmental arrangements. but we also see that things are not going well in the council's field. in mali, the decision to send a training mission was taken in october, and nothing had happened by the end of january because the decisions were not taken seriously by both sides. the question of structural cooperation has not yet been raised, nor has the question of the battle groups. i therefore think we must think about how these things can be improved, which will also bring about the political situation where the vice-president of the commission heads the cluster of foreign commissioners. or how we can get a deputy on the political side, including the council side. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. this must be done in such a way that we make it clear that this service is a service of all the institutions of the european union and cannot be taken over by the member states. when i see that some countries, including the country i know best, would also like to influence the appointment of the deputy ambassadors, i have to say that the end of the flagpole has been reached. on july 1st, 2013, you can quit by the normal process, and the interim solutions are over! it is not possible for the member states, which are supposed to provide 30% of the staff, to provide the generals and then the community services to provide the soldiers. this must be done at all levels equally to have the appropriate controls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must also consider the capacity to act. we still have difficulties in reporting and passing on instructions. whether the intergovernmental part is now responsible or whether it is the community part, it must be clear that this can only be done through the ambassador, so that it is uniform and not different measures are taken here and things run side by side. all this has been invented in order to have a common action and coherence, and not to play the old games of the different interests of the institutions. our report is intended to assist baroness ashton where we see opportunities to do so in cooperation. you yourself want to report after these two and a half years. we hope that our paper, which i have had the pleasure of working on with mr gualtieri, will give you the help and the inspiration to come up with these proposals, as the member states do. we hope that in the autumn we will be able to see what conclusions you have drawn from this, so that together we can make improvements during the last year of our joint term of office, so that the successor will then have a real foreign service, and so that the great achievement of five years will have been achieved.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i welcome ms ashton who, as my colleague has said, has achieved much over the past three years and deserves credit for that. but i also agree that we can always do better. we should use this review as a serious exercise, and not as mere box-ticking. for the substance, let me highlight just a few issues. i think that one of the main objectives of the service, as you have stressed, is for the eu to become one of the best actors in terms of conflict prevention, crisis management response and conflict resolution. you have excelled at that when it comes to serbia and kosovo, but let me also mention burma/myanmar and yemen. these are conflicts which we do not hear about so often, but where the service has done a great part of what we see on the ground. i believe, though, that to be even better at this, you should take your role as vice-president of the commission even more seriously. the second point: i believe we need to integrate the different structures better. we had a debate with mr popowski on it and he said ‘i am the appropriate structure which was negotiated three years ago’. i admire him greatly for his work but as my colleague said, you cannot do everything. i do not believe he is a structure, he is a person and he lacks the structure behind him. it is high time that we created the appropriate structure we discussed three years ago. i am still very much convinced that this would advance the eu in its response to crises and for long term peace. the second point – i am glad that you have mentioned it – i still believe that there is unnecessary duplication: too much on top, too few people who really work on the ground and sometimes unclear lines of command. i am happy that you have said you will address this for the 2014 budget. another point you mentioned is the gender balance, and you had promised an action plan addressing the structural obstacles to women, because there are many structural obstacles to women when it comes to diplomacy. it would be good if you could follow up on this in the framework of the review. finally, you are one person, but you have, de facto, three hats. please nominate deputies for yourself so that we do not have to blame you for not being where you cannot be because you have to be at two or three other meetings at the same time.
mr president, i would like to recall that about three years ago franziska brantner and i set up what we called ‘friends of the european external action service’, a temporary platform where academics, ngos and future diplomats of the eeas could come together and discuss how this should be structured. some of the things that we came up with are on the agenda today. one is political deputies. we recommended this, but at the time it did not find favour with those who initiated the service. it became clear very quickly that ubiquity is not something that one can expect of the high representative in what we always called an impossible job – three hats at the same time is simply impossible to fulfil without serious political deputising. today this is the first point in the recommendation that we are writing as a parliament. the second issue that we discussed – and which was indeed realised – was to have a broader leadership structure rather than one all-powerful general secretary. if it was pierre vimont we would not have a problem with that of course, but we did not want to have an éminence grise behind the scenes who would not appear in parliament etc. we wanted to have the opportunity to give you as much information from as many sources as possible in your leadership functions. we believe that, even if this is modified, the principle is still valid. a last point – and my colleague here the earl of dartmouth just mentioned this – is that our member states are indeed closing down embassies and consulates and that this is where the external action service can provide added value because our member states will continue to be represented by a service that is their own.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the fact that we are taking stock and reviewing which structures have worked well in the ead and where there is potential for improvement. one thing has become clear in the many foreign policy crises of recent years, such as the recent syrian crisis: we need clear political leadership from the high representative in order to shape a successful common foreign and security policy. dear catherine ashton, you have a better chance of fulfilling your potential. she also serves as vice-president of the european commission and chair of the commissioners responsible for external relations. we will support you here with all our strength. in addition to stronger political leadership, simpler structures and improved coordination are needed to increase the efficiency of the edf. the commission's approach to the european neighbourhood policy is also crucial for our foreign policy, as it remains subject to the community method. the neighbourhood policy must not be subordinated to intergovernmental structures. i would also like to congratulate you once again on the work you have done so far. you have a great staff! i would like to mention in particular your colleague on your left, mr vimont, who is doing an excellent job here in parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to point out that the european external action service still has a long way to go. i just want to ask you a few questions: why do you keep holding up that organogram? the service is functioning in spite of this organization chart and not because of it. there are no other eu institutions with so many highly endowed posts as the foreign service. i'm glad you announced a demolition, and i'm excited to see what it's really going to look like. i'd like to ask about the special envoy. what about the special agents? what's your concept? was there anything else in here besides groceries? what are the results, and why are there still these special envoys? it might be wiser to strengthen the delegations. i believe that we must fight with you for an efficient european external action service. europe's taxpayers are paying for 55,000 diplomats. that's more than twice the number the united states has. it would be appropriate and sensible to strengthen the european external action service. everyone would have a piece of it, and the taxpayers would have saved a lot of money.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, may i first say in response to ms sinclaire that i was at the uefa champions final at the invitation of uefa. can i thank you for all of the contributions. i said i thought it would be lively discussion and it has been that. i am very grateful for all of the comments, whether you agree with what we are doing or disagree. it is important that this parliament and all its voices are heard. i want to just try and pick up a few of the core issues which have been raised and try and address them. we will of course return to this and to these issues as we publish the review. i want to take a few subjects one by one. the first is about how we work with member states. as i said in my opening remarks, lisbon left a lot of what we do as intergovernmental and subject to unanimity. i find that the members of the foreign affairs council, whether as foreign ministers, defence ministers or development ministers, are keen and determined to reach a common view; not a lowest common denominator but a highest common factor, even where this is difficult and even where we do not have agreement. i can assure you that the way in which all 27 interact with each other is an extremely valuable discussion and debate, seeking solutions. that is also true of the twelve hours we spent in debate on the issues of syria and the embargo. honourable members asked whether member state parliaments should have a role. every presidency, i meet with representatives from each of the 27 member state parliaments. they come together for the presidency and the opening session of their conference is always with me; a chance for a long debate and discussion. it may not be enough but it is certainly an important part of the work that i do. in terms of how we work with member states, specifically the example was given of what happened in the case of the kidnap victims in yemen. i can tell you that austria and finland both thanked us for the work we did in our démarches with the government. i spoke with the president and with those involved in coordinating and that is true for any kidnap victims of any member state anywhere in the world. if we are asked to help we do. i would also perhaps mention one other thing, which is that foreign ministers work together extremely well. they collaborate in trips; as i said, they do things on behalf of the union, as well as their own member states. william hague, carl bildt and radosław sikorski very recently made a very important journey together which they found of enormous value. i want to turn to the issue of deputies, because many of you have rightly pointed out that it is impossible to be in two or three places at the same time. i can remember a very sad day when i had been to five countries in a day and was criticised for not being in the sixth. it is impossible to achieve everything without using the incredibly valuable support of the rotating presidency. when all of this was put together, all of the statutory meetings which existed before continued to exist, all of the association councils. we built up different ways over time and these meetings continued even though there was one person not three. i had to chair three councils not one, and so on. therefore the rotating presidency has been fantastic in taking on a huge amount of work, as has štefan füle who i work closest with; so have other commissioners who have been willing to represent me and the union in different ways and so too have other foreign ministers. it is not unusual to find that a foreign minister in making a statement at a conference on behalf of their own country will also make a statement on behalf of the eu. it is a very good use of the resources that we have and one i commend to you. it does not take away from the broader debate – which you do need to have – about how in the future this role is going to be performed if it is one person and if you are going to keep the number of demands that you have on the individual concerned. i also believe that the whole question of how we work in conflict prevention and crisis management needs to be under this umbrella of the comprehensive approach; how we use our mediation skills and rule-of-law skills and so on. it is extremely important that we do that effectively and it does need looking at to make sure that it fits together. there are different structures; again, inherited structures which i do not necessarily have the power to change, but that i can with the support of you and with the member states. in a similar vein, when we think about the work we do on defence, on csdp missions, i could not agree more, we need to speed up the process. the process is far too long-winded, takes too many different committees to make decisions and so on. these are important decisions. i am not trying to take them away from member states but i think we do not have to go through all of these procedures. one of the things i introduced, as you will recall, was exit strategies for our missions. there were none, and there are now. it is really important. we depend on the commission as well for this type of work; we have to look at some of the regulations that we have, and i need your help because some of it requires quite a lot of change. it cannot be done except by the institutions agreeing to do it and, if necessary, by changing the rules or sometimes the legislation to do it. but we have to get quicker and it is not going to happen just by wishing it to happen. it is going to happen because we make it happen. on embassies/delegations, all i will say is that the uk is actually opening embassies at the present time. william hague is extremely proud of that so i should tell you on his behalf that they are opening not closing. a question was put specifically about barbados versus panama. barbados gets a lot of bad publicity for all the wrong reasons. let me explain what barbados is: it is a regional aid hub. there are 44 staff, of whom three are from the external action service, six are from the commission and 35 are local staff. they are responsible for delivering aid for 10 countries and territories: antigua, barbados, dominica, grenada, st kitts and nevis, st lucia and so on. they are responsible for eur 250 million of aid to all those countries. rather than having 10 different places with 10 bureaucracies, we have put it all into one, but there are only three eeas staff there, the rest are delivering development aid. i agree that we should open in panama, i agree we should open in turkmenistan, i agree that we should open in the rest of the gulf and i agree we should do that in good time, but we need the resources to do it. that is also important. we have opened in libya; we have opened in myanmar; we have tried to respond to dramatic changes by putting people on the ground who can be there and stay there, but that of itself is a challenge. on staffing of course there is more to do. remember, most of the staff came in from the other institutions, so their gender and their background were inherited and changing and developing; in any organisation that takes time – and i have quite a bit of experience of this. we have to work on the processes that enable people to come in. i have tried to get more women into the service, i have been very pleased at the number of women who have come in – bearing in mind that in national diplomatic systems as well there are not so many women involved in foreign policy. but we have to solve some of the obstacles that, as i have said, are in place. we are looking at that; we are sending people out to capitals where you are under-represented to talk about how to do that. but i do not want to do quotas; i want to appoint on merit. every single person who is a head of delegation knows they got the job because we think that they were the best person to represent the union in the work that we need to do. i also agree, by the way, on holidays and all the other regulations, but i cannot do it unless we can change those regulations. it does not make any sense to me the way the holiday structure is. of course people in hardship posts and very difficult places need more time off. i do not think anybody disputes that, but i do not see why we have different regulations. they have just grown up like that. but to change it i need to change the regulation – so i need you, and that is true of other things as well. i am not against making these changes but you know, and i know, it requires others to put forward proposals, and for it to be agreed that this should move forward. that requires some careful and sensitive handling, too. so all of our proposals on how we change things like that have been brought forward from the delegations themselves. i asked them through their representative bureau to give us their ideas on what we should do and to act upon them. i have also been looking at what we can do in terms of reducing the senior level posts. the creation of the service at the very beginning was a structure that we needed to get the thing off the ground. now we have to look again. therefore, i have proposed to reduce five ad 16 and nine ad 15 posts in the establishment plan for next year. i have proposed to member states most recently a suggestion of what we should do on special representatives; looking at their mandates, looking at the numbers, and looking eventually at how they can be more integrated into the service. it is an important element that we have available to tackle sometimes very difficult crisis situations where you need somebody who is not based in one place, but can span across, and sometimes it is about moving forward on issues where you need the combination of a head of delegation and that broader special representation, places like afghanistan. but they also bring staff with them that we need so, it is about how we integrate this further and more fully. nobody is more committed to trying to do that than i am, believe me. but it needs to be done in a way that is going to ensure that we can continue to develop. finally, the vice-president issue: i agree. i have been talking with president barroso about this over these months. we agree that we need to do more to develop that. i have pointed out in my opening remarks some really good examples of how we work together with different commissioners on different issues. just as we met last week to talk with commissioners about syria and we met with commissioners to talk about defence, so too there are many more occasions when we should try and do that. we are both, the president and i, committed to trying to make that work more effectively. thank you again for this debate. i have often said that setting up the service was like trying fly a plane or get it off the ground while you are still putting the wings on: bringing staff in from different places who arrived from different institutions, seven different locations across brussels; asking them to create something new; and then asking delegations on the ground to take on completely new responsibilities without the resources that would give them that additional help. remember, in places like new york when the rotating presidency came in, they put more than 20 additional staff on the ground. we could not do that, and so we have tried to make it as efficient as we possibly can. my ambition was to build the foundations. i said there were three priorities: to be more relevant in our neighbourhood. we are. to develop our strategic partnership links. we have. and to build the beginnings of a service that you can all own and, i hope, you can all be proud of. there is an awful lot more to do and with your support i will finish my mandate and hand over to someone the beginnings of something that can be incredibly important for europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that this parliament has shown that it is prepared to help improve the service and to cooperate constructively in the building phase. this debate has clearly shown that. i did not expect a full answer in your statement either, because i think we will have to talk about some things in the coming weeks and months where we can move things forward. you just added something to the end about the regulations. i think the financial regulation is one of them. there are some things that the legislator needs to change to make it more effective. i think we also need the commission and the council to do that. we must also see that the member states have some benefits. it is not possible that a country you know best prevents other countries from also wanting to prevent the possibility of a settlement of consular services - this is something that also concerns the citizen. these are important questions that we need to look at because they have cost-saving effects for our member countries. if someone wants to do this, they should be able to do it. we must talk again about the question of political representatives - i agree with what they said - and also about how this can be better understood. i am therefore looking forward to the further debates in the coming weeks and months and to your report in response to that, so that we can use the last year of this parliament to take it forward.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank high representative cathy ashton and her staff for presenting to us a very good and comprehensive eu annual report on human rights. thank you also for delivering it in time, so we at parliament can start with our own report soon. the annual report rightly notes in its foreword that the universality of human rights starts at home with the vigilant monitoring of europe’s own human rights challenges and its willingness to tackle them through a wealth of mechanisms, with no room for complacency. my question is: to what extent have you been able to take action on this external and internal coherence? our human rights policy will also gain from greater coherence between our external policies, notably with regard to trade. myanmar/burma is a prime example of inconsistency between our trade and human rights policies. the commission has just proposed granting burma preferential trade access, while the un special rapporteur on burma has denounced ‘widespread and systematic human rights violations’. could you please tell us what safeguards are taken to ensure that trade and investment agreements do not undermine our human rights objectives and values? parliament’s human rights subcommittee commissioned a study on the human rights implications of the use of drones and unmanned robots in warfare. the study makes a series of recommendations and raises a lot of important legal questions to which the eu has to find and give answers. there is a general sense of uncertainty as to the applicable legal standards. the lack of transparency and accountability of current policies has the potential to polarise the international community and to undermine the rule of law. this trend opens possibilities for eu foreign policy initiatives, and i would like you to tell me in which way the eu is addressing this issue, which has relevance for human rights. a coherent human rights policy also means being consistent when raising human rights with third countries, big or small. this would mean, for example, raising the case of liu xiaobo in your discussions with chinese officials, supporting the adoption of an eu magnitsky list in relation to russia or speaking up against caste discrimination in new delhi. could you please reassure us that human rights are indeed high on your agenda in your discussions with strategic partners?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am glad to be able to speak for the greens. the transatlantic relationship with the united states has its ups and downs, but it is a fundamental determinant of europe's position in the world. in this partnership, we are mature enough to find the right words where they are needed. all of us who have been shocked in recent days by the revelations about prism, in this parliament, and in the commission, should find the clarity needed to tell the americans: this is not partnership, this is not how we want to deal with each other! ttip is often cited as a great promise. i am of the opinion of my predecessor that this will only work if we do it with persistence. there are enough difficulties: data protection made clear again in the context of prism , genetic engineering, problems with investor state dispute resolution i could name many others. but i would also be interested if we could use these negotiations to develop a policy ambition that, for example, asks: how can we use the transatlantic negotiations to further develop our two economies towards more low-carbon production, towards a transformation of our economies towards energy efficiency and resource efficiency? for example, by reducing subsidies for fossil fuels together in these negotiations. there are also great uncertainties in the transatlantic relationship. the fact that the report by mr millán mon mentions nato only briefly is a sign of this. we have an alliance here seeking its meaning. i would like to congratulate mr millán mon on two things in this report: on his adherence to the visionary proposal for a transatlantic political council and on his strategy of extending the transatlantic relationship to other partners, particularly in the south atlantic. both proposals have a lot of future!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group cannot agree with the report. it is far behind the requirements and common positions. the commission's own-initiative report could have given the european parliament the opportunity to reflect on new realities and responsibilities, particularly in the transatlantic relations. the report does not contain a more binding word of equal and respectful cooperation in international relations on an equal footing in an age of multipolarity and global challenges. nothing about the primacy of balancing interests without preconditions. you have also clearly disliked proposals for new forms of cooperation with the us congress in times of common regulatory needs, such as ttip. but it is unacceptable that the report falls behind parliament's common positions on issues such as the fight against poverty, energy security, the active fight against impunity for the most serious crimes under international law and the implementation of a global zero-nuclear-weapons policy. prism is a programme which is designed to help the european union to develop its own policies and to promote the development of its own policies. we need a stronger joint constructive design of bilateral relations. the report does not show that enough.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the transatlantic community has been the most successful community i have known for over a hundred years. it brought democracy to europe in two world wars and it ensured, mr scholz, that western europe and the united states, together in their understanding, brought freedom to all of europe. that is a crucial point. this has enabled us europeans to be so strong today, with 27 or 28 countries, that we can negotiate on equal terms - we need not stress this - with a higher gdp than the united states. we are a greater trading power than the united states, a stronger one. that's not why you should stress it. but together, we are capable of making a difference in this world. it is clear that we dislike some things about the united states, and the united states dislikes some things about us. we must do this by means of sensible negotiations. but together we are better able to organise a world of peace in which our interests also play a role, in which human rights, democracy and the rule of law also play a role. those in other positions and our competitors like china , for all the weaknesses we have, are not exactly representatives of democracy. are democracies with a market economy, with a social market economy system, able to play a decisive role in this world or not? that is the crucial question. the ttip is therefore an important instrument for bringing together the interests of our economies, but it is not the ultimate goal. it's a tool for that. that is why it is important, as my colleague, mr millan mon, says, that we integrate this into an overall strategic concept, that this is a partnership not just with the united states, but with all the americas, in order to contribute in this way, on the basis of common values, to a world order while we still have the strength to do so. if the us and europe are going to work together to tackle this development, despite all the weaknesses and despite prism, i still prefer that to china ruling this world. i therefore believe it is important that we follow the ideas of mr millán mon and make ttip a success, not only because of the trade and non-tariff issues, but also because it is a political concept which we support.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. looking back, i am very grateful to the americans for having succeeded with their allies in the 1940s in eliminating the terrible dictatorship in europe, namely that of germany, for having succeeded in defending freedom and democracy, at least for us in western europe, in the period after the second world war, during the cold war, for having succeeded with us in spreading democracy also in central and eastern europe. so, for all the criticism of some of the failings of america, let's not forget that america's tradition is different and we have a lot in common. i would be very grateful if it did not go down in these days. i think that the european parliament should be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. we want to improve economic relations. but we should also think about how we as europeans can work with the americans to ensure that the things for which the americans and many of us have fought over the last decades are also valid, if possible, worldwide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i would like to thank my colleague very much for his excellent report. i would be very grateful if we all tried to put into practice the things it says.
i have to say, madam president, strong political, legal and economic relations across the atlantic are of paramount importance to us europeans. the eu-us relationship is, of course, the foundation. the other countries of north and south america must not be overlooked. i am thinking of our strategic partners, latin america and the caribbean, but also canada. the european union is not only a major player in the world economy, but also in the world economy. the emerging powers there are becoming increasingly key players. first, regionally, but very quickly with repercussions on global political and economic decisions. the united states and europe are competing for the asian markets. on the other hand, increased euro-american or transatlantic cooperation with asia would open up new opportunities for influence, especially for us, especially for the eu. the transatlantic partnership must be deepened to continue to play a central role in an increasingly complex world. the very ambitious report by our colleague, mr millán mon, is an excellent basis for further debate and further activity. i thank him for his efforts!
i have to say, madam president, we have a great tradition of cooperation with the united states since the end of the war. nato is our transatlantic security alliance. and i really hope that we will be very open-minded about the negotiations that are coming. that means that we really start to knock down all the areas where we can discover mutual benefits together, and that we don't have the discussion that i've heard in part here, that we like to exclude so many areas. so the arms industry should be excluded, or the audiovisual sector. let us first examine in detail what we can gain from this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but this sector is so small in scale, with nearly 2 billion transactions every day! let us not be put off by areas which are not very important in themselves but which can jeopardize a whole big agreement.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the strategy for resolving the conflict in mali, which was launched with military intervention, is not, as is so often the case, bringing about a solution but is leading to a perpetuation of insecurity and violence in the region. in addition to the national background to the crisis, it is above all international factors that have caused the outbreak of the conflict and have made the population the pawn of interests. the causes of the crisis must be eliminated and the international framework of the imf and the world bank must be changed, land grabbing must be stopped, uranium mining must be banned and much more. finally, we should question the role of many intelligence services in organized crime and in the promotion of salafist groups. a policy which is supposed to be humanitarian has no legitimacy when it is actually used to promote uranium mining, and in the process causes child malformations, lung cancer and deadly environmental pollution. mali is a rich country. but people remain poor and must continue to suffer so that others can reap their riches.
thank you very much, madam president. the reconstruction and democratization of mali is also in our european interest, not just in the interest of mali itself. we do not want to leave a vacuum in mali and the sahel, where jihadists and other extremists could develop, and that is why it was right for france to intervene and why it was right for us as the european union to set up a training mission there. democracy means free and fair elections. and many colleagues have already raised a few question marks. i want to make it clear that i myself, as the chief observer in tunisia and recently in pakistan, know how long it takes to start from scratch. in tunisia, they started in january. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have therefore a question mark to the extent to which we can organise elections there, with the malians, who can then also receive a positive assessment. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. and that means, for example, that the voter register must vote. not just in bamako or timbuktu, but also in kidal and the desert areas. the voters must be given the opportunity to inform themselves. the candidates must be able to campaign. the whole structure must be built in such a way that we can say at the end, yes, this was a choice that also meets a high standard. and i have my doubts about that, and i hope that we can work together with the malian authorities to make some progress before the elections themselves, so that we do not have the additional problem of some - probably the losers - saying that this election was not democratic.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am addressing you on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton. afghanistan is at an important crossroads and faces a crucial transition in its history. we shall soon see a full transfer of responsibility for security to afghanistan, and, at the same time, the withdrawal of isaf. there is certainly an increased capability on the part of the afghan national security forces in responding to attacks mounted by the insurgency. the most recent proof of this is what happened on monday morning at kabul airport. however, we have every reason to continue to be concerned by the overall security situation in afghanistan. the indiscriminate attacks on afghan civilians and the specific targeting of international aid organisations by insurgent groups have become a major problem. politically, many – both in afghanistan and in the international community – will look at the presidential elections as a critical benchmark. we have called on the afghan authorities to continue to prioritise preparations for the elections. in particular, it is important to put in place an electoral legal framework consistent with the constitution, accompanied by credible measures to prevent fraud which are overseen by independent bodies. the eu is assisting with the preparations for the elections by providing technical advice to the independent election commission and as one of the major founders of the elect 2 electoral assistance programme, which is led by undp. we will continue to engage fully with the process, and we will consider the case for an eu electoral observation mission in the coming months. economically, afghanistan will face severe economic contraction if it is unable to renew investor confidence and reverse the capital flight of recent years. as in many other fragile and conflict-affected states, reforming governance plays a central role, in particular the fight against corruption and organised crime and the reform of the judiciary. transparent public finances, especially after the kabul bank disaster, must be an important element in this. in this regard, the european union is fully committed to supporting state-building and long-term development in afghanistan. in order to establish the appropriate cooperation framework for the years to come, a cooperation agreement is needed. the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement on partnership and development (capd) should also help to establish sustainable structures and institutions. it is a clear sign that we are now ready to deal with afghanistan as an important bilateral partner. in july 2011, the foreign affairs council expressed ‘its willingness to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-afghanistan agreement’. since then, we have been negotiating a draft text which should eventually become our first contractual relationship with afghanistan. it is important that such an agreement reflects the principles and conditions on which the future partnership will be based. the envisaged capd is intended to set out the principles and conditions underpinning the agreement and the provisions for political dialogue. it will incorporate a broad range of areas for cooperation, including on development, trade and investment, and justice and the rule of law. there will also be chapters on a number of specific areas for sectoral cooperation. the afghan side should fully appreciate that the agreement underpins our commitment to afghanistan’s future development during the decade of transformation agreed at the bonn conference, and indeed beyond. taking the form of a ten-year cooperation agreement with a commitment to partnership and to political dialogue, the capd is clearly not a preferential agreement and that in many ways the level of obligation will be the same as with other partners who are better able to meet a high level of mutual commitment. however, it will integrate the outcomes agreed at the international conferences in bonn, chicago, kabul and in tokyo, including the conditionalities agreed at the most recent of these. the agreement should reiterate the willingness of the parties to address new common concerns, such as the fight against terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, international crime, counter-narcotics and the mitigation of climate change. all of these issues can only be successfully tackled through concerted joint efforts by afghanistan and the international community as a whole. while keeping this in the council’s mandate, efforts have been made to take account of the proposals of member states and technical experts. the same goes for positions previously expressed by the european parliament, in particular, on the monitoring of millennium development goals, the dialogue on organised crime and counter-narcotics, and cooperation between the parliaments. so what have been the problematic issues? the afghan side has been pressing the european union for firmer financial commitments, and, in particular, commitments on funding for infrastructure. there are limits to what we can commit to in such an agreement. although we have accommodated afghan requests as far as we are able, we have to take care to ensure that the capd will not be turned into a programming document. another outstanding point concerns the status of the delegation in kabul and of its staff, including the security personnel. some afghan authorities have tended to treat the eu delegation as the ‘office’ of an international organisation, not as an embassy – which is not acceptable. we will use the agreement to ensure that our diplomatic status is placed beyond all doubt. finally, i understand that some concern has been expressed regarding cooperation with the eu on matters such as the international criminal court. however, afghanistan is party to the rome statute, and the agreement should reiterate that we expect afghanistan's international obligations to be observed. following the last round of negotiations in november, drafting suggestions were presented to the afghan interlocutors just before christmas. i understand that the afghan foreign ministry presented a text to the cabinet and the national security council in early 2013. however, no official communications or textual suggestions have been received this year. the eusr and the delegation have repeatedly raised this issue at all levels, including with the president himself. we have also made clear our concern at the delay to the afghan mission to the eu. we are now considering whether to include a reference to the issue in the june foreign affairs council conclusions. in the interim period, the afghan government has concluded a number of more specific and much shorter agreements with some of our member states. as you can see, the way ahead to get the capd in place will be long and difficult but the eu will continue to respect its commitment to afghanistan. we remain confident that the capd will provide a framework for our dialogue and cooperation in the years to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much, commissioner. yes, the ead is currently negotiating a partnership and development cooperation agreement with afghanistan, at the eu's initiative. the information i have received from the eac at all times and in a constructive manner indicates that the negotiations are well advanced. i would like to stress the importance of a comprehensive and long-term agreement. the agreement creates the necessary framework conditions for political and economic cooperation. the aim is to continue to support afghanistan in the transition process that has begun. the eu and its member states are committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the prevention of terrorism and the fight against terrorism. the development of a self-sustaining economy also plays a crucial role. at present, the afghan economy is very much supported by foreign money in connection with the presence of the international community. we must enable afghanistan to build its own diversified economy. the main prerequisite for this is that corruption is combated. you have made a lot of conditions, commissioner. i 'll tell you what . the dependence on poppy cultivation must be reduced, and here afghan farmers must be given a real, alternative source of income. a reconciled, peaceful and stable afghanistan with its diverse ethnic groups is in the interest of the entire region. our actions must therefore be developed and implemented in close coordination with the neighbouring countries around afghanistan. a key function here is the heart of asia process. the epp calls for a speedy conclusion of the negotiations and urges both the edf and the afghan government to bring the negotiations to a positive conclusion without delay.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this transitional agreement will weaken the entire region of central africa. the neighbouring countries are being torn apart economically. the eu is the largest donor of development aid, but more than money is needed to make a successful cooperation that helps people out of poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of promoting regional cooperation is also raised. but this agreement will not be conducive to regional cooperation. this agreement also contravenes other principles of policy coherence in the interest of development. it's nothing but a free trade agreement in disguise. the european union's investment should also be strengthened. however, the agreement does not contain binding provisions on corporate social responsibility. we should put developments first and not the commercial interests of the european union. this is about poverty reduction and development cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we greens voted against this epc, both in the development committee and in the trade committee, and we will continue to do so in the plenary. i would ask all of you to look again at the arguments for the fact that cameroon is really being strengthened in development cooperation. we don't see that happening.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the commission's strategy in negotiating economic partnership agreements with individual regions of the acp states has been criticized by my group from the outset. the agreement you have submitted to us for ratification today shows that we are right. they dare to sell this epc as an agreement with central africa. in fact, cameroon is the only country you could get to sign. all the other countries in the region have decided that the agreement is to their disadvantage. the countries no longer want to be forced to open their markets completely to european companies. in general, economic partnership agreements are not intended to increase the competitiveness of countries and thus to strengthen the regional economic power of these countries. but a deal with just one country now puts this very regional integration in even greater danger. and the situation is even more absurd because we are supposed to agree to this agreement against our better judgment, so that cameroon does not lose its market access to the european union from october 2014 onwards, due to a blackmail regulation that was imposed on this parliament by the council and the european people's party only last month. it is now becoming clear early on how wrong this decision was. we should have listened to the development committee and rejected the regulation. my group will vote against this epc with cameroon. it is bad for the region, for cameroon, for the image of the european union in all the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want in particular to thank the rapporteur, mr kalfin, and the shadow rapporteurs for all their hard work throughout the legislative process. the commission welcomes the compromise found on the revised directive on the re-use of public sector information and looks forward towards adoption by the parliament. this deal marks the accomplishment of efforts to bring government data closer to the citizens and businesses of europe. this directive will bring about a change in the way public institutions share their data. three key achievements: first, it will make all the information that is generally accessible available for re-use. second, it will set marginal costs as the main principle for charging for public data. third, it will bring the cultural sector within the scope of the directive. data is the driver of the digital economy, and public sector data is a key raw material for new web services and smartphone applications. it stimulates research and helps improve the efficiency of business processes. in developing countries, the use of public sector data is still limited, but there too governments are encouraging the use of open data to increase transparency, accountability and citizen participation. easier re-use of data can lead to innovation and generate growth. there are benefits for public administration too: intelligent re-use of public data reduces administrative costs, enhances the transparency of policy-making and creates a feedback loop with citizens. importantly, all those benefits can be achieved with a small investment, as freely available public sector data ends up generating much more revenue than could ever be collected by charging for it. last week the council endorsed the compromise text agreed between the co-legislators. let me therefore thank you once more for all your work, commitment and support in conducting this legislation to a successful completion. europe’s knowledge economy receives today a new set of rules with a powerful and positive impact on growth and innovation. i would like again to thank all of you, on behalf of the commission, for your constructive work and collaboration. this is a victory for all who believe that the best way to get value from data is to open it up for re-use. it is a victory for those that believe that public transparency and openness are the only way forward. i am delighted to say that we are opening up public sector data, and turning it into digital gold. this huge resource will, once adopted, be mined and turned into innovative products and services that will benefit all. this, in turn, will help to create the jobs that europe needs.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall be voting today on the report on the revision of the draft directive on the reuse of public sector information. the committee on culture and education considers that an essential point is the extension of the scope of application to archives, museums and libraries. in the european union, these institutions are a treasure trove of our cultural heritage, the diversity of europe, which must be enhanced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cultural sector is not left behind. the provision of public information requires a level playing field for both parties, both for public authorities and for the future users of such data and metadata. the amendments proposed by parliament to the commission's draft have created appropriate pricing principles, fair contract terms for museums, libraries and archives, cost-covering fees for the provision of data for both commercial and non-commercial use by citizens and re-use. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the constructive cooperation between all the committees on this dossier. i hope that many of you will take advantage of these new opportunities in the future to program and provide interesting applications for us providers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say to the sceptical colleagues who have just spoken that we social democrats support this initiative precisely because there will be no profit-oriented trade in information, in these hidden values. the it industry, of course, is the main beneficiary of the innovations. but that is also true, that is the basis for investment and for innovation. but we have taken care to ensure that this directive also applies to the voluntary nature of the municipalities, high data protection and copyright. the directive is straightforward, it is unbureaucratic because it does not require new posts. and i hope that the cultural sciences, the journalists, the artists, the scientists, will also take advantage of this new opportunity. i do not think it is taken for granted that all member states are already as free with their information as they could be. i therefore hope that this directive will develop a new culture of freedom of information throughout europe.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his report. it covers a wide range of subjects and gives us many homework assignments for the future. but what i also want to point out is that we put our light too often under the bushel. the situation in the developing countries is still catastrophically bad. the situation is mentioned in the report. we should also emphasise again and again that in recent years we have already succeeded, together as the european union, but also with our partners in the world, in dramatically improving the situation for people in many countries of the world. when the millennium development goals are achieved in almost two-thirds of the countries concerned, when we have succeeded in fighting poverty on a large scale, then i think we can also take a moment to pause and think about how we are part of that success. but what excites me is that we still see huge differences in the development of countries. there are countries which have made enormous progress in the last 10, 15 or 20 years. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the whole of europe. on the other hand, when i look at the african continent, it still seems to me that this continent is largely cut off from economic development, from globalisation, from recovery. it is also clear that we must do everything possible to further intensify trade relations with these countries. we shall have a debate on this subject afterwards. i would be delighted if we could use the wto conference on aid for trade in geneva next week as the european union to think about how we can help these countries to develop further. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur once again. i would be delighted if we could continue along this path together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. it is a report that we can really go to the un and speak with one voice there. we have also achieved a great deal with the one we have had so far. i would like to make three points: reducing extreme poverty by half, improving access to drinking water and reducing the population living in slums has also been achieved. these are results of which we can be proud. but there are still a billion people living on less than a dollar a day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must also be the starting point for our further promotion and development of these lagging areas in the region. this is very important! the basis for this is good governance. i have seen this repeatedly - including in my report on energy supply - when people suddenly try to water down this very passage, arguing that it is not that important. no, we europeans must always point this out, that is the only way to do it. i know many examples in africa where excellent regional projects have been created, but then suddenly fall apart, stand around, are not used because it is simply not possible. i think this is very important! i have to say something about the report. it says that the essential goals of full employment are to be achieved through regulation, through a framework for regulating the private sector. but jobs are created by the freedom of the entrepreneur and not by government regulation! we can see this in examples everywhere and that is why we should be particularly careful here to set different priorities.
i have to say, madam president, we have already made some progress on the millennium development goals. this is also reflected in the report by mr kaczmarek, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks. but we also have a lot to do. the first is better treatment and poverty reduction for women and girls, because they are the ones who are most affected, not only in europe but also in the developing countries. but there is something else that we must consider: we must be consistent in our policy. we have very good and very lofty objectives in development policy. but when it comes to putting things into practice, we are not always consistent. i would like to give an example of fisheries agreements with which i have dealt in the committee on development and also in the committee on fisheries. the commission has made a good proposal to the council to conclude an agreement which would give the mauritanian people more opportunities to fish for the fish they have on their own. it was indeed so, there was agreement in the development committee. the committee on fisheries has once again put national interests first. if we continue in this way, we will not reach our goals as quickly as we might like.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a good report because it is about continuing the relations between 78 countries and the 27 member states of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most recent example is that the irish presidency of the council is not prepared to host the next acp-eu meeting. it is a shame for the member states that the opportunity of cooperation with the 78 acp countries is being neglected in this way. a second point: by working with the 78 countries, we have opportunities to influence climate targets. the 27 eu and 78 acp countries have a clear majority in the united nations; we should use that! the last point: cooperation with cuba. we have the membership of 78 countries, but one country has only observer status, that is cuba. if we want to improve relations with cuba overall, we must also allow cuba to become a full member of the acp.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to congratulate mr cashman on this excellent report. i also agree with his assessment that the focus of the amendments to the agreement is on achieving the millennium development goals, combating climate change, development and poverty reduction. the clauses on consistency between the objectives of the agreement and other eu external policies are important. however, i regret that the current efforts in the european union to combat tax havens have not been able to become a common priority. secondly, i also regret that fair trade has not been included in the development and poverty reduction objectives. in these areas, as well as in the human rights clauses, the european commission and the european external action service must in future ensure that we achieve better results. it is also crucial, in view of the stalled doha round, to point out that in future investment in the production of goods which can be supplied more cheaply by countries with which we have free trade agreements will also have a negative impact on the development of the acp states.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if we are voting on this agreement today, we should all be aware that this agreement is only a small part of our overall strategy with the acp countries. we must not forget, especially in trade relations, that we are still talking about the economic partnership agreements, that we all have a great common interest in seeing countries emerge from poverty, in seeing these countries participate in economic development, in seeing them create participation, in seeing them achieve prosperity and in seeing the situation of the people in these countries really improve. we all know that this agreement has many weaknesses. the rapporteur has thankfully addressed this in his remarks and in his written explanatory statement. but the bottom line is that if we do not agree to this agreement, we are endangering the whole basis of our cooperation, and we are endangering the basis of many other agreements with the countries in this region. i therefore strongly urge that we approve this agreement today so that our relations with these countries can continue to be orderly and smooth. i thank the rapporteur.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur michael cashman and the committee on development for recommending that this house give its consent to ratification of the second revision of the cotonou agreement. i have carefully noted the views expressed by honourable members. we will take all of these into account and, when it comes to negotiating the third revision, definitely try to ensure it is far better than the second revision.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
mr president, i just wanted to say that motion no 1 is still on the voting list. but motion 1 has been withdrawn!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we want to make this clearer to avoid any misunderstanding caused by translation difficulties. that is why it would now read: article 5 from the middle. ...to put under a single joint structure the various logistical services of the commission and the eeas for early warning, risk assessment and security tasks covering events outside the union, in which these services have to cooperate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a former journalist and human rights activist, i welcome the clear statements against the repression faced by journalists in the majority of countries on earth. but there is also talk of problems in the eu, which i would like to emphasize: the need to promote quality journalism, the fight against monopolies, especially in the agency sector, and journalistic ethics. i'd like to say something here: i learned as a young journalist that you can separate comment and news. today, it's being mixed in a way that unfortunately diminishes journalism of god in its quality. this too should be dealt with critically and ethically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is not only not a european country, it is also meeting the criteria less and less. that is why, thank god, we have also rejected all the amendments to open new chapters, in particular the chapter on justice and home affairs. that would be a completely absurd reaction to the killings and beatings in turkey. but i'm also saying, very clearly, we should finally switch. the csu calls on all csu meps to stop the accession negotiations. we should support what mr brok yesterday called in his creative way a norwegian solution. but there can be a norway solution too only on the basis of democracy and human rights, to which turkey has committed itself by ratifying the council of europe convention on human rights. it is already committed to respecting human rights. it must do so now on the basis of this legal basis. there's no need to open any chapters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all 27 member states and parliament wanted the european external action service. there are also excellent people there, especially in the ambassadorial posts. i would like to mention, for example, our former colleague hybášková in baghdad and others. but one thing is clear: member states are now complaining that this external service is too expensive. of course we must save money, but we must also realise that if we transfer essential foreign policy responsibilities to the eu - and we want this - then the national foreign offices must be reduced. the czech republic, the netherlands and sweden are doing this, cutting their foreign services by half in some cases. we do not need ambassadors from all the member states around the world, but we could concentrate on a single eu embassy in a very large number of countries. we should therefore go forward, but we should not overlook the need for reform, and in particular the fact that the foreign service needs to be at the forefront of change. it needs a different political face and a different leadership.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very happy that this house is now fighting very hard not only for religious freedom, as in this report, but also specifically for the rights of christians all over the world and against their oppression and persecution. we also provide a lot of practical help. but i am outraged by the way certain forces are trying to implement something like a secular state religion. this is also reflected in the vote on the kaczmarek report, the cashman report and others today. the worst thing for me was that the very reasonable oral amendment tabled by mrs andrikienė, which was also accepted by the social democrats, was prevented by the liberal group's stand. this is illiberal. liberals should consider returning to their liberal roots instead of being among those who spearhead this secular pseudo-religion. so please, more liberalism, especially in religious matters.
in writing. − given the difficult situation in the wto negotiations in the doha round, it is clear that a greater opening of the market between the two largest markets in the world, the eu and the us (with a market volume of over $10 billion each), has enormous economic growth potential for both sides. i therefore welcome the report on the wider transatlantic partnership very much. nevertheless, there is still some need for discussion in the discussions on mutual market opening, because the two sides have different values in some areas. the present report focuses in any case on the foreign and security policy issues of transatlantic cooperation. in this respect, europe can see that european security cooperation is still more expensive than that of the us and europe, but it does not achieve results that are comparable. that's what worries me. finally, i am grateful that the report expresses clear criticism of the 'prism' programme!
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the rule of law in russia. see minutes of the sitting.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not a colleague has just spoken of russian friends who must be criticized, and she meant the government. my russian friends and ours are not part of the putin regime or its henchmen. they are either dead, like mr megnitsky, mrs estemirowa or mrs politkovskaya, with whom we have worked closely, or they are somewhere in siberia in some kind of prison camps, like mr khodorkovsky or mr lebedev, or they are being persecuted like mr navalny, they are being harassed like memorial and other human rights organisations and like the adenauer and ebert foundations, or they are being imprisoned in the most cruel way, like the women of pussy riot, whom i would also like to mention. all of this makes it clear that we are dealing with a brutal, inhuman regime. i think that the european parliament should be able to give its opinion on this matter. a strategic partnership also includes shared values and a common legal basis. in this sense we must speak a clear language with russia!
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, this resolution and this debate clearly illustrate the growing concerns of the european union as regards the human rights situation in the russian federation. these concerns regarding the overall situation, as well as the individual cases mentioned here today, have been raised on many occasions by the high representative, catherine ashton. yes, we have to admit that we have witnessed, in recent months, a deterioration in the conditions in which civil society operates in russia. in particular this is being achieved through a set of new laws in a quasi-legal way. the common aim of the laws on treason, on foreign agents, on demonstrations and, more recently, on homosexual propaganda seems to have been to further reduce the available space for independent, civil and political activity in the country. we are not silent. we have expressed our concerns with determination, both in public and bilaterally. here is the problem: to date, russian courts and law enforcement authorities have seemed unable to fulfil their duties independently in a number of cases. there are a disproportionate number of russian cases reaching the european court of human rights. the un special rapporteur on the independence of judges said, following her recent visit to russia, that the russian federation should take specific measures to guarantee the independence of the judicial system and to protect judges from any form of political influence on their decision-making. this is also our strong view. in the coming weeks and months, judicial proceedings against mr navalny and others – including twelve bolotnaya demonstrators – will come to an end. this is also the case in the posthumous trial brought against mr magnitsky. the supreme court will look into the case of mr khodorkovsky in august. we have made our views clear on these trials. we had the opportunity to discuss them in detail in our human rights consultations on 17 may 2013. the european union will continue to follow those cases closely. the rule of law should be, and is, a priority area in our partnership for modernisation with the russian foundation. we are currently implementing a project – which could perhaps be of some help – with the council of europe to support the setting up of an appeals system for criminal and civil court cases in russia. the eu stands ready to work with the russian federation along those lines too, including in the area of the independence of the judiciary. we firmly believe that such projects have the potential to consolidate and strengthen the legal environment, thus improving investments and the social climate. we welcome projects like this, and we are ready to work together with russia on such projects in the future. however, we will continue to clearly express our concerns when they arise – including in public, when necessary – on the overall situation, as well as on the individual cases mentioned in our debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after three debates. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on azerbaijan: the case of ilgar mammadow. see minutes of the sitting.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. in october this year, elections will be held in azerbaijan. after decades of rule by the aliyev family now by the son , the chairman of the republican alternative party, ilgam mamadow, has announced that he will run against president aliyev. earlier this year, riots broke out in the city of ismaili in azerbaijan. mamadow visited the city after the riots and spoke to politicians, observers, journalists and those involved. later, he was arrested and charged with inciting riots. since then, he has been in prison and unable to make the necessary preparations for the elections. this is just one of countless cases in azerbaijan where people disappear, are arrested, not because they have done something proven, but because they have expressed themselves politically differently than the regime would like. azerbaijan is very interested in close cooperation with the european union. we are also interested in this cooperation. but we must make it clear that the centre of cooperation, including in the eastern partnership, the centre of an association agreement must be respect for human rights, democracy, individual freedom, human dignity, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly. without respect for these common values, there can be no such cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would ask you, mr president, to put yourself in our place. there was a time before 1989 when we were fighting for human rights in poland and in other countries behind the iron curtain. at the time, we were told not to do this, to rely on secret diplomacy. we have not done that, thank god, and i don't see why we should do that now.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr czarnecki, i can understand why you wanted to leave the room immediately after your speech. but before you go on to other activities, allow me to ask you a quick question. i didn't understand your contribution. i think you have not understood the rules of parliamentary democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask you very much to refrain from attacking people personally. especially those who undertake this difficult work here, to look after not only their own affairs but also the affairs of people in other countries. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i am addressing you again on behalf of the high representative, catherine ashton. i wish to thank the members of this house for their interest in this matter. their points have been carefully noted. the case of mr mammadov is a serious case which merits the attention of the european union, firstly because of the way in which it has been handled, and secondly because of its wider significance in terms of the political opposition’s freedom to conduct business in a presidential election year. we are worried about the period of solitary detention imposed on mr mammadov, during which he has been neither able to receive visits from his family, nor food from outside the prison. more generally – and this is obvious – his continued detention reduces the chances of him running as the real party candidate in the presidential elections. i wish to assure you that both the high representative, catherine ashton, and commissioner štefan füle are closely following the political developments. during their meetings with the leaders of azerbaijan, as well as in the two strong public statements which they made on an independent and transparent investigation and on mr mammadov’s human and civil rights being fully respected, they were not silent on the matter. this is in line with the concept of deep democracy in our european space, where it is not just the technicalities of the election process that are taken into account, but also the essential freedoms of politicians and citizens to interact and for policy choices to be promoted and debated, including in the electronic media and online. this is how it was when they discussed the cases in the russian federation. the wider issue of the judicial system and how it is performing – not just the case of mr mammadov – is, of course, also a part of our dialogue with azerbaijan, as has been mentioned in this house. this is a partnership with high stakes for the european union, but a mature relationship should allow for speaking frankly when it is needed, and this is a case in which speaking frankly is called for. the resolution before the house will certainly be taken into account. there are important issues like judicial performance, defamation legislation, freedom of assembly and electoral legislation, but i have to assure you that what happens in azerbaijan is also closely and actively monitored by the eu delegation there. the head of the delegation was able to meet with mr mammadov on 4 april 2013. the delegation is also in close contact with the family and lawyers of mr mammadov. this applies not only to mr mammadov, but also to the other detainees, including mr tofiq yaqublu, who is also in pre-trial detention. i am pleased to tell you that the eu delegation in baku visited mr yaqublu in jail earlier this week. as with the mammadov case generally, we continue to monitor and make representations in all of the relevant cases and keep a close eye on developments in azerbaijan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of the rohingya muslims. see minutes of the sitting.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. unfortunately, i have to agree with what mrs vergiat and mrs schaake have just said, also in their conversation with the nobel peace prize winner. she has not come to us in the way we expected her to come to us on the rohingya issue. the progress made so far by the myanmar government in terms of democratization and opening up is one which i, on behalf of the epp, expressly welcome. however, in the face of ongoing discrimination, we call for an end to hostilities against the muslim rohingya minority and for their recognition as full citizens of myanmar with all rights and obligations. the resolution we are voting on today is therefore not just an appeal to the myanmar government but to the entire population, including the opposition, to stop any hostility and discrimination against the rohingya. the reconciliation of the various ethnic groups is a fundamental building block for the long-term stability of this young democracy. i support the reintroduction of the generalised tariff preferences for goods from myanmar, not unconditionally, but i expressly support it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i welcome parliament’s resolution concerning the situation of the rohingya muslims. this country has been undergoing profound changes since march 2011, when it set out on a path towards stability, peace, democratisation, development and opening up the political space. but it is not only in this part of the world where longstanding and deep-rooted divisions in society are now surfacing, and the rohingya muslims are a case in point. the problematic humanitarian situation requires immediate action now, as the rainy season sets in. but what is also required is a political solution addressing the tensions between communities. this is not primarily about religion. president u thein sein has publicly criticised the actions of some of the instigators of the violence as senseless, irrational, reactionary and extremist. we believe that president u thein sein understands the risks for his country, both as regards its reputation, and as a contamination of the successful ethnic peace processes. equal access to citizenship is a fundamental issue, as mr kaczmarek has already mentioned. we continue to encourage the burmese government to apply the 1982 citizenship law in rakhine state. a full revision of the law is required, but it would be a good start if it were fully applied to all. we raise our concerns frequently – most recently when the eu special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, visited the country. he met the government, the national human rights commission and also rohingya representatives. we discussed the matter at the eu foreign affairs council on 22 april 2013 and stressed the need for urgent action in dealing with inter-communal violence and the humanitarian risks in rakhine state. the high representative catherine ashton personally urged the authorities, firstly, to protect the civilian population from violence; secondly, to bring perpetrators to justice, regardless of their ethnicity or religion, and thirdly, to ensure unhindered humanitarian access to all affected communities. the eu will continue to provide humanitarian aid assistance to those in need, provided that proper access is granted. this is the same as with humanitarian efforts in syria. we will monitor the situation, and through dialogue with the government, we will try to address both the humanitarian situation and also the longstanding political situation of ethnic tensions between the communities in a country that should be on the road towards fully-fledged democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the voting time. i understand that mrs muñiz de urquiza wishes to speak on the rules of procedure.
i am not going to go into that. if i understand correctly, mrs muñiz de urquiza would like to insert the word 'adopt' in paragraph 18, which i have now, but only in the german version. in german it reads: calls on the council to implement the foreign affairs council conclusions on human rights in russia. it may be an error which appears only in the english version. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the english version, if i understood it correctly, refers to the council's conclusions which should be 'adopted' and not 'implemented'. is there any objection to that? i don't see any. we shall then vote on paragraph 18 in this form. but we'll start with number 8 in the original text.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 13 june 2013.
- what ?
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. you, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the croatian people, take your seats. it is my honor and privilege to welcome you here to a solemn ceremony i have attended for more than one occasion. i have seen a whole group of newly elected members come into this parliament as a young member in 1995. more and more have come, and today you. so i'm pleased to welcome you here. each one of you will be called by name. you will take your seats. when you have taken your seats, we will add the symbol of croatian membership, your country's flag, to the other flags of the member states of the european union. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the newly elected croatian members of the european parliament are taking their seats. the president then follows a lounge attendant carrying the croatian flag and puts it in its place among the other flags.) i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now continue our work. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to call on all those involved in egypt to refrain from violence. we shall certainly be following the ongoing mass demonstrations in egypt closely and will certainly be discussing them at some point in the future. italy and europe have lost an extraordinary statesman, an honest, far-sighted and - as anyone who knew him knows - passionate man. i have asked the united states ambassador to the european union by telephone this afternoon to clarify as quickly and as fully as possible and to inform us of any truth in these allegations. i have also asked mr lopéz aguilar to convene a meeting of the coordinators of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs this afternoon to discuss the next steps. (applause from the left)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 27 june 2013 pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: tuesday: i have to tell you about a change for tuesday. the vote on the statute, scheduled for wednesday, should be moved up to tuesday. it was a mistake of the services. are there any objections to this? that's not the case. then we'll vote on it on tuesday. the epp group has asked for a debate on the situation in bulgaria on tuesday, with statements from the council and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the epp group is calling for a debate on the current situation in bulgaria following the new elections held there. i would also like to give a brief explanation of this in accordance with our rules of procedure. we now have a minority socialist government in bulgaria. and it was only possible because of the tolerance of the so-called ataka party. the ataka party is a well-known right-wing party, incites hatred against jews, against muslims, is anti-european, and a few days ago the party's chairman even threatened civil war for bulgaria. this is the party that is being worked with in bulgaria now, with the tolerance of this party. in our view, the socialists have made a pact with the devil. we regard this as a scandal and we must also be able to discuss this scandal in the european parliament. i would also like to point out that the chairman of the socialists there and of the european socialists, stanishev, has tried to install a dubious media entrepreneur as head of the authority for the fight against organised crime. it failed because citizens took to the streets, tens of thousands took to the streets to criticize it. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. these two processes are worth discussing here. mr president, you have always said that the european parliament is the place where the concerns of the citizens should be discussed. in sofia, thousands of people are on the streets every day demonstrating against these events. i would like to take the liberty of pointing out that in budapest nobody is on the streets discussing. (disturbance) but in sofia, there are hundreds of thousands, tens of thousands on the streets, discussing and demonstrating. that is why this vote, that is why this question, the vote, is whether we can talk about this. mr cohn-bendit, that is why this question is a key one. but it shows again the mood in this house, if you want to discuss these issues seriously, how the left reacts to these events. we believe it's moving the citizens now. we think it's time to discuss it before the summer break. and for us it is a test whether the socialists are serious about debating these questions in this house or whether they are reducing the european parliament to a party-political instrument. (applause from the centre)
who would like to speak in favor of the motion?
who would like to speak against the motion?
- i am informing you that the report by mr pargneaux will be moved up to tuesday evening. as of wednesday:
mr chountis, please! the conference of presidents has decided that there will be no resolution on the agenda. it is not up to me to decide, but to the political groups whether they wish to debate with or without a resolution. i can only ask you to contact the other groups again to see if they want to adopt a resolution. as i said, i can't put that on the agenda on my own.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are voting on wednesday on the timetable change for the co2 emission allowances. this is the message that everyone who came to parliament today had on their door. this is from the international paper organization. and i have to say that what is in there is not 100 percent consistent with the facts that we have discussed in parliament. it was a delicate matter, we debated it back and forth, and parliament decided that the report should be sent back to committee. the epp, alde and the socialists then developed an alternative text in committee, which is now up for vote. it is suggested that this house is the recipient of orders from the commission, which is not true. so perhaps we should check whether any organisation is allowed to distribute everything in this house and has access to the members' offices. i have to say, i find it very, very strange to be passing things around like this. (applause from the centre)
mr. groote, we're looking into the matter.
unfortunately, i cannot return to the agenda in retrospect. it has just been established and decided. mr preda, i can only recommend that you make bilateral contacts with your colleagues. i can't change that right now.
mr preda, thank you for the suggestion. i am sorry to have to refer you to the rules of procedure. we have just adopted the agenda. but it is not a problem if you bring your motion back in the morning at the beginning of the sitting. that is permitted in the rules of procedure. (interruptions by mr cohn-bendit) i can only recommend that you contact the other factions.
mr cohn-bendit, i had no idea you were so familiar with the rules of procedure. that's great. we'll check it out, mr. preda, and you make your arrangements. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/16/ec on port state control (com (2012) 0129 c7-0081/2012 2012/0062 (cod)) (a7-0394/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. tomorrow we will vote on a crucial improvement to the eu regime for port state control, namely the incorporation of the international maritime labour convention into the directive. with more than 1 000 ports along europe's coastline, handling a large part of the eu's external trade, common criteria for ship inspections are essential today, as they enhance environmental protection and, above all, safety. the 2006 maritime labour convention should be taken into account in this important legislation to ensure that work on board all ships calling at eu ports also meets international social standards. because life and work on ships are extraordinary and require an extremely high level of commitment from seafarers. and those who choose this career should also be able to be sure that adequate protection is provided for the living and working conditions on board. i would therefore like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr simpson, and also all the shadow rapporteurs for their strong support for better labour standards in the negotiations. in doing so, they have ensured that vessels from flag states which have not signed the international agreement are subject to special controls and may sometimes be subject to stricter criteria within the eu than those required by international conventions. i very much hope that the incorporation of the agreement into eu law will give further impetus to the call for its rapid ratification!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would first like to thank very warmly brian simpson, who is not only working on this for us in parliament but has also worked very well with us as shadow rapporteurs. the seaman's profession is one of the oldest in our history. there's a lot of romance in it, but it's also a very hard, very hard job, with a lot of hardship. it is therefore all the more important that we establish decent regulations for the people who work on ships. since 1920, there have been a total of 37 different labour agreements, all of which are now being consolidated for the first time in a labour code for seafarers. over 1.2 million people worldwide work on ships. it is about safety on board, that is true, but it is also about working conditions, the right to complain and also, for example, about the way in which health care is provided. all of these things are unlikely to be important. we already have a whole series of different laws on this, they are just not always properly implemented by all flag states. the shipowners, the ship owners and, in the flag states concerned, the captains are responsible for this. but things don't always work out the way we want. now is the time for all the eu member states to sign up. it has already been said who has signed and who has not yet. croatia - i would like to emphasise this again - our new member state as of today, has also signed relatively early, and of course we want many more to do so. all ships entering eu ports should be inspected. of course, inspectors need a qualification. this is one of the tasks of emsa. that's right. we also said that it is important that member states which have stricter rules than we are now demanding internationally should still comply with them, so that they do not fall below these standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the crisis. that is why we must make this profession more attractive. i therefore ask all member states to sign this agreement.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, i would just like to repeat that we are discussing a proposal which aims to enforce the international labour organization’s maritime labour convention through port state control. these are international standards and we must implement and follow these standards. it is one of the two enforcement instruments related to the 2006 convention to be adopted by the european union. therefore we are following international practices and i would like to thank the european parliament’s committee on transport and tourism for its strong support on enforcing the rights of seafarers. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this proposal is linked to another proposal which you will soon debate regarding the responsibilities of eu flag states for enforcing an agreement of the eu social partners on the maritime labour convention. the compromise reached by the rapporteur ms berès and the irish presidency has recently been approved by the committee on employment and social affairs. adopting these two legislative proposals will show how seriously the convention is being taken in the european union, not only vis-à-vis our stakeholders but also internationally with regard to ships flying third-country flags and calling at eu ports.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by vilja savisaar-toomast, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 1999/37/ec on the registration documents for motor vehicles (com(2012) 0381[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0187/2012[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2012/0185[cod)) (a7-0199/2013), the report by olga sehnalová, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles circulating on the community's roads and repealing council directive 2000/30/ec (com (2012) 0382[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[/nbsp]-[/nbsp]-[/
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the road safety package is a very large dossier, which concerns almost all citizens in the european union. we've combined it with roadside vehicle inspection and registration. it is well established that subjective errors in road and traffic are caused by drivers, but there are also many technical problems in motor vehicles, and these are playing an increasingly crucial role. the debate in the committee on transport with individual colleagues was of course also very much determined by the situation in the member states. many have their best practice. the inspection procedure, as applied in the member states, has often proved successful. but we also need to achieve our ambitious goal as transport politicians, as politicians in the european parliament, which is to halve the number of road deaths by 2020 if possible. i also thank the commission for presenting an excellent proposal, which we naturally had to modify a little. we agree with you, commissioner kallas, that we need a strong regulation, rather than a directive which leaves too much freedom to the member states. but of course, we also have to adjust a lot of things. we have achieved a great success by agreeing on very high technical standards for repair and inspection. it is an annex of almost 80 pages which plays a very crucial role here. in terms of the frequencies that need to be checked and inspected, we have agreed on a minimum standard of 4-2-2. but all member states, and this is well documented, can set higher standards beyond this agreed minimum standard. we also reached agreement on the question of trailers: up to 2 000 kg they are exempt from testing for the minimum standards. the caravans are with us. the following provisions shall apply to tractors from a speed of 50 km/h: the inspections are necessary when these tractors are used for transport on public roads. if they're working in the field, and in a crossing, that's not necessary. the problem with two-wheelers was quite complicated, because in 50% of the member states there is no requirement for inspection at all, while in the other 50% of the member states there is a strict requirement for inspection. the commission has been given a mandate by a majority of the committee to submit a proposal again by 2016 because we need more information on this subject to be clear. from 2016, all new motorcycles and mopeds are required to have technical inspections anyway, because then there's driving assistance and many other things. we have reached an agreement on historic vehicles, which also creates clear conditions: they must be over 30 years old and produced in the historic area. the four-eyes principle is the basic principle for the separation of maintenance and inspection as the last point and after that all workshops that are certified are also able to respect this objectivity.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, roadworthiness is all about road safety: roadworthiness tests and roadside inspections make sure that fewer accidents are caused by technical defects. the committee on transport and tourism (tran), its rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs have made progress in some very difficult areas. on roadworthiness testing, the committee has reinforced the provisions on preventing conflicts of interest. with roadside inspections the administrative burden will be significantly reduced by targeting the vehicles which present the greatest risk. closer cooperation and a better exchange of information between member states will make it easier to re-register vehicles in other member states and avoid the re-registration of vehicles that are not fit to be on the road or have been scrapped. however, the commission cannot be satisfied with what the committee has voted for in other areas. it is a matter of much concern to me that those vehicles which present the highest risks, namely motorcycles and other two-wheelers, are not to be subject to regular tests. it is a big surprise to me how successful the motorcycle supporters have been in having them excluded from this legislation. motorcyclists are increasingly over-represented in road death statistics. seventeen member states that have introduced testing for motorcycles report a significantly lower number of fatalities. mandatory testing of motorcycles saves lives. i would therefore ask you to reconsider the arguments and vote in favour of testing. i am also disappointed that the proposal to test old vehicles more frequently has been dismissed. statistics show that the proportion of technical defects in a vehicle increases exponentially with its age. we should also show more ambition in relation to light vans. these are increasingly used to replace trucks because many obligations for heavy-duty vehicles do not apply to them. since 2000, the numbers of light vans have increased four times more quickly than those of heavy trucks. at the same time, they are involved increasingly often in fatal crashes. we have to target the groups of vehicles that present the highest risks: motorcycles, old vehicles and light vans. please keep this in mind when voting tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mr kuhn very warmly for having presented a very balanced compromise in the interests of all those who own cars. i do not think that the frequency of the inspection, but the quality of the main inspection is of crucial importance for road safety. i thank him for expressing this in such a clear way. i myself had the honour of accompanying the road checks for my group, and i would like to mention four points. firstly, i think it is important - and we have done so as the epp - that the number of inspections in the member states should not be limited to registered lorries but also to those travelling through a country. i will take austria or luxembourg as an example. there are few registered trucks, but many trucks passing through. it is therefore in the interests of the austrians and the luxembourgers that more lorries are checked than is actually the case in these countries. in the risk rating system, it was important to us as the epp that there was also the possibility of achieving an improvement in the risk rating through voluntary safety checks, which are carried out outside and in addition to the main investigation. and i'm very grateful that it worked out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. you talk about the increase in admission rates, but you haven't been able to provide any figures on accident rates. so our approach is to limit that to vehicles over 3.5 tons. i think that's the right approach, too, to have more controls where accidents are more likely to happen. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. we are pleased that the commission is taking up the initiative of the european parliament and is presenting its own proposals as soon as possible, because the issue of loading safety on european roads is of crucial importance for road safety. that is why the epp group supports these reports.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is about road safety. the eu the european parliament has been working for a long time on how to reduce the number of road deaths and serious injuries. we have already made some improvements through many measures, but the number is still far too high. the question now is how to check the vehicles in such a way that they are safer. the rapporteur, mr kuhn, mrs sehnalová and mrs savisaar-toomast, to whom i am very grateful, have dealt with this matter in detail. i would like to limit myself to the aspect of investigations, more precisely traffic investigations, for the following reasons: in the run-up to this discussion i have been presented with a test in which vehicles with the same defects have been subjected to the main examination in different member states. and i was absolutely shocked that there were even member states where faulty brakes were not detected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the data is not compromised. this can't be! we need to harmonize. it is not, as a colleague has now suggested, that the commission itself checks everything. the member states continue to do so. but there has to be a consistent approach. i think that's perfectly right. i agree with the commissioner that it is a pity that the motorcycles are not in the car. in germany we are very thorough. we are not only checking the cars, but also the motorcycles, the tractors, the trailers. but only the supporters have a majority on the transport committee. so that would be quite optimistic. i think it's good that there's no automatic annual check-up after 100,000 miles, because in the big states, we all drive a lot, and that doesn't necessarily mean that our cars are prone to damage or that they're very unsafe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the annual number of road deaths in europe remains alarming. 85 people die every day on europe's roads. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not affected by the new technologies. i think that the road safety package presented here is a very important step in that direction. the commission believes that for the first time, a european-wide test obligation should also apply to trailers and motorcycles. i am in favour of this and i would also appeal to all members to support the motion for a resolution tomorrow to include motorcycles in the scope of the regulation. at present, motorcycles are inspected regularly in only one in two member states, although motorcyclists are the most vulnerable road users and 8[nbsp ]% of accidents are due to technical defects. this is clear from the various accident statistics, and they also show that the number of motorcyclists killed has stagnated over the last few years, while in other areas road deaths have fortunately been declining. i therefore expressly ask for support again tomorrow for the inclusion of motorcycles in the scope of the directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased to see the proposal for a regulation on roadworthiness tests. for the first time, this includes aspects of the visual and depth control of the cargo securing system. this is a significant step towards transport and legal security, but also towards fair competition. i am particularly concerned about the establishment of uniform cargo security rules throughout europe, which will then also be reflected in the training and further training of professional drivers, loading staff, forwarders and all those involved in controls. so far, the accidental loading protection is checked in the member states in such a way that it is extremely different. there are countries where there is no inspection at all, others where there are no recognised rules, still others where vehicles are stopped if the load is not properly secured. load securing was a key concern in my owninitiative report on road safety by 2020. i welcome this proposal from the commission!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the members for the very constructive discussion that has taken place, both during the preparatory process and here in plenary. regarding one fundamental question which was raised by many of you, i am convinced that we should not do anything at european level that it is possible to do at national level. i am in full support of subsidiarity. but many of the questions about road safety and how it could be improved come from the countries most affected by transit traffic – from france, the netherlands, germany and the uk – and from members of the european parliament, from members of national parliaments and especially from law enforcement agencies and traffic police organisations. the call is to do something! we need action at european level. during our discussions we considered all the details which could be left for member states and what should be tackled at european level. it is, of course, a delicate balance and we may well have different views about this, but traffic crosses borders, especially in europe, and ever-increasing cross-border traffic is part of our lives. a very interesting statistic is that almost 40% of accidents in europe are caused by foreign drivers: it would seem that people are crossing borders and somehow losing vigilance and ability. i am ready to discuss in further detail what should be done at european level and what can be left for member states. most of these proposals have come from relevant players in the field. i am open to all discussions. we should definitely not do anything at european level which is not necessary, but all these issues, including technical roadworthiness, are relevant if vehicles – including two-wheelers and caravans – are crossing borders. we must have some kind of harmonised approach and rules concerning the technical quality of our vehicles. i am very happy to say that this is also part of a bigger picture. all our road safety achievements can be considered as a kind of european quality label. in the united states, for instance, the number of deaths on the roads per million inhabitants is twice as high as in the european union. so we have seriously improved road safety, and we must continue to do so. we must also continue to tackle all the details, including the technical details of our road safety action plans.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation and good cooperation, and for the fact that we have in principle also addressed the points which give rise to difficulties in our respective member states and that we have also found compromise solutions. all the doors are open. and of course, everyone in this room is looking at this very carefully and wondering, what is the future of, say, motorcycle inspection? will we find a common compromise? in the committee we have once again given the commission the opportunity to provide us with basically reliable data on the road safety of motorcycles and mopeds and then to put forward a proposal on that basis again, with which we can continue to work. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. it is a great achievement that we have passed the minimum technical requirements, which are at a very high level. that's 80 pages in all. it's all about brakes, steering, chassis, everything is precisely defined, which has to be replaced within a two-year period. in the context of the caravans, we can of course say that this is becoming a highly complicated system for the uk, for example. four years after manufacture, a caravan is inspected for the first time. and then it might be in a barn and only used once a year. then the chicken feathers are swept away and you don't know if the brakes are still working, if the lights are working. then they hang it up or they give it to their grandson, who's only 18, and say, "go ahead, kid". i think it is necessary that after the first four years an inspection be carried out every two years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's very important that we have electronic data here, so it's a kind of vehicle record for every vehicle, every vehicle, which is recorded after an inspection of the mileage. and if there was a major collision, that's recorded. because whoever buys the used car should get a reasonable car with clear statements. with mileage manipulations, we know how these things work. i look forward to the further discussion, which will then be continued in the trilogue. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is simple and poignant: we all agree, but how can we make the technical inspection, which must and should be clearly documented, also falsification-proof? because that's the only way the system works. anyone who has ever bought a car knows how quickly the mileage is manipulated. you're surprised that the car is actually much older than it looks. how can this be prevented? mr. chairman, do you have a good idea for me?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr. colleague year! there is no such thing as a 100% guarantee. but if we actually do this kind of documentation with a vehicle record, with a vehicle passport, then the chances are very high that you have clear ratios here regarding the mileage, the driving performance of a vehicle, and this is reasonably documented. because between inspections, nobody will say, "well, i'll have my mileage reset for 30, 50 or 100 euros", which may be even lower than the last inspection. so it's the right solution. this is also a very practical solution for cross-border trade and sales.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not 1.5 million injured on europe's roads every year, 300 000 of them seriously injured, not to mention dead that's decidedly too many. and that is already a reduced number, we used to have much more seriously injured, injured and dead on the streets of europe. we have to do something about it, that's perfectly clear! we have already made many declarations of intent, but some of them are still lacking in concrete measures. we have a nice goal, no more road deaths and no more serious injuries, vision 0, that sounds great, of course. i'm always a little bit against it, because i think goals have to be achievable. unfortunately, we'll probably never get there. but we have to do everything we can to get there. road accidents are one of the leading causes of hospitalization for people under 45. that should give us something to think about too! children, the elderly, the disabled and those on two wheels are particularly at risk. we must also take this into account. now, of course, you might ask, how do we manage to do that? better enforcement is one way, otherwise - it was mentioned earlier by my colleague mrs hall - we are now dealing with the fact that truck noses should be designed differently - pointed, longer drawn - then there are fewer serious accidents and hopefully fewer accidents in general. we should also be concerned about the emergency call system, e-call, as well as emergency care: how can it be optimally networked? and a final example: in germany we have had very good experiences, because new drivers are very much at risk, with a supervised driving and a driving licence from 17. maybe something like this can be done in other countries. the young people who are accompanied for a year are generally much less likely to have an accident afterwards. this is a great thing, because young people, especially those who are just starting out, are very likely to get into accidents.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a very simple question, mr mölzer, because you said that the deaths on the roads are increased by the longer trucks. do you have any figures for that? i don't know any numbers. i've been looking at this very closely because we've been doing a lot of testing in lower saxony.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, of course we need more and improved technology! but that's not all. we therefore need to know what it is like to be speeding, because speeding is the biggest risk of accidents in the european union. subsidiarity is very important to us. we don't want to dictate to the cities: you have to do it this way and that way. but we want to give cities the opportunity to do it. i'm from berlin, which is a city state. there, the state government could decide to make 80[nbsp]% of the roads into tempo-30 zones. that's a huge boost to security. because at 30 mph, we have 42 percent fewer accidents, we've cut the braking distance in relation to 50 mph from 28 to 14 meters. and the risk of death with a weaker road user is 50 percent to 80 percent at speed, 30 percent to 10 percent at speed. so if you want road safety, you can't miss it. this is crucial. tempo[nbsp ]30 lights up the sign forest, tempo[nbsp ]30 lowers the cost and tempo[nbsp ]30 increases the acceptance of this speed, which is given. the commission pointed this out more than 25 years ago and wanted to introduce time regulations at european level. we are still waiting for the proposal of your predecessor, commissioner. what will change? if we introduce speed 30 in berlin as the standard speed, as the parliament has also decided by a large majority, then nothing will change for the driver. because 20% of the roads are reported as pace-50 roads instead of pace-30 roads. the only thing that's changed is that you're not going to find a driver on a 50-speed road driving 30 and saying, "oh, i didn't see the sign!"
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members very much for their comments. of course there is no silver bullet which can deal with all issues. as regards speed in cities: i just visited a city in a very respectable european country where cars simply do not stop at zebra pedestrian crossings. so what can the european union do in this case? nothing. it is very much linked to people’s behaviour and their culture of driving as well. it is also very clear in this house that some people want to have more european regulation, some people less. we have tried to find a balance as to what needs to be done to address the issue of serious injuries. i think, especially during the last months, that we have made considerable progress. however, as i have said, this discussion on the definition of road injuries has been a substantial one. we have also proposed to amend the directive on weights and dimensions, introducing major improvements for vehicles – also concerning visibility and other elements. we have proposed ecall – which is not only the ecall itself but a huge system dealing with how the medical service should be linked to this call. the call system will be there; but who will take this call and in which language? how are we to address this? this is now also designed as a complete system, and i think that it will be received positively by member states. this road safety strategy has been successful because all actors have committed themselves to achieving tangible substantial results. i also think that we will move ahead on the issue of serious injuries. as i have said, it is a certain trade mark of the european union to have high standards of road safety, aviation safety, passenger rights and all these issues.
member of the commission. - madam president, first and foremost i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur richard seeber and his team for their thorough work on the commission’s proposal. i would also like to thank the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) for largely backing the approach we put forward. thanks to the committee’s support we have been able to maintain some of the proposal’s most significant objectives in the compromise text after negotiations, which i could best describe as being challenging. the commission sees the proposal as important for at least three reasons. firstly, it provides a much-needed update of the list of pollutants, the ‘priority substances’ under the water framework directive. this update results from a review of the latest scientific evidence regarding a large range of chemicals, including those identified by parliament when the environmental quality standards directive was adopted in 2008. the new list means regular monitoring of pollutants in all member states. this is really important since a number of these substances are very persistent and bio-accumulative, toxic or highly toxic or suspected endocrine disrupters. some measures will have to be taken to bring concentrations down to safe levels or to phase out emissions to water of those pollutants. the directive also ensures a level playing field in standards for the newly identified pollutants across the union. this is important in view of the transboundary character of such pollution. secondly, the proposal introduces provisions to improve information on the chemical status of water. the public will be better able to understand the efforts made to improve water quality where they live and work. the european parliament’s environment committee has complemented this by introducing a welcome requirement for timely electronic provision of information. thirdly, the proposal includes a new monitoring mechanism to help improve the evidence base for identifying priority substances in the future. this new watchlist mechanism will see member states monitoring additional substances to help assess the risk they pose to the environment or to human health via the environment. so the proposal marks an important step forward. however, the three pharmaceutical substances that the commission proposed, on the basis of strong scientific evidence, including on the priorities substances list have been placed on the first watchlist. the compromise text recognises the risks posed by those three substances and makes clear that they will be on the watchlist to facilitate the identification of measures to address those risks. but i regret that, in the face of existing and clear scientific evidence, those substances will not be put directly on the priority list. it would have been the appropriate and proportionate approach. the concerns in relation to other pharmaceutical substances in the environment will be followed up by developing a strategic approach to the issue. a great deal of work lies behind this proposal, both the scientific review and the impact assessment. numerous experts and researchers from the member states, the commission and the stakeholder groups as well as the scientific committee on health and environmental risks have provided input. the scientific evidence on the risks from these substances would justify a shorter timetable for complying with the objectives set out in the proposal. the current economic pressures across the union are not an adequate excuse for failing to deal properly with such risks. but in the interests of avoiding further delays, we accept the compromise agreement in order to ensure a first reading deal. the commission is committed to working with the member states to ensure the smooth and effective implementation of the proposal. the common implementation strategy for the water framework directive exists for that purpose. we have ensured that the necessary technical work on developing supplementary guidance on monitoring methods will be covered in the strategy’s work programme for 2013 to 2015. this directive will contribute significantly to improving water quality, and will thereby also have a positive impact on people’s health. however, a number of changes introduced in the commission’s proposal during the first reading deliberations require the commission to make declarations on three issues. firstly, the need to establish preliminary programmes of measures for the new priority substances and to address the risk posed by the three pharmaceutical substances. secondly, the dependency of legal deadlines on the provision of non-binding guidelines. thirdly, the use of the ‘no-opinion clause’ for the adoption of implementing acts. we will pass the full text of those declarations to the plenary service for recording in the minutes. despite these declarations, the commission sees the outcome of the negotiations as a positive move in the right direction and accepts the compromise text.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we're all very sensitive about water. it was not money or the euro that triggered the first european citizens' movement; it was water! millions of europeans share the concern for our water lifeline. the desire for clean and healthy water unites all of europe. we have not only put our water under surveillance in many regulations, but we have firmly anchored it in the law. we know that only by taking good collective precautions can pollution be prevented, that any pollution of our waters is either not at all or is very difficult to eliminate. today we're going to talk about the priority substances in water. i am glad that after three trilogues a good compromise is now on the table, and i thank our rapporteur, richard seeber, who has been very cautious in negotiating for parliament. the development of new substances, but also the development of new techniques and methods of analysis, requires constant readjustment. there are also new concerns and new concerns arising from new or intensified changes in humans and the environment that we need to take seriously. the monitoring list is a key element of the priority substances in water regulation. this is where potentially dangerous substances are monitored and tested. it is true that pharmaceutical substances are now on this so-called watch list. this is where further data can be collected and evaluated. the commissioner has already said that the list of observers must be kept under review. it must be updated regularly and substances must be either included in the priority list or removed from it. only in this way can developments be directly observed and can they also be directly counteracted. the compromise we are discussing is another good step towards safeguarding our water and thus our health.
in writing. i welcome the compromise reached in the negotiations with the council. it is reasonable to include the three pharmaceuticals in the list of substances to be monitored. even a who study proves that there are no concentrations of pharmaceuticals in drinking water that are dangerous to humans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. this could have led to restrictions on the availability of important medicines, such as painkillers or the birth control pill. there is no reason for the eu to go beyond the who recommendations. clean water is important. but you have to balance the effort with the benefits. we must not restrict the availability of medicines by excessive regulation in environmental legislation, especially when there is no evidence of a threat to the environment. therefore, the downgrading of the medicinal products to the watch list is to be welcomed. more may be desirable, but not always financially feasible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our rapporteur, mr marinescu, has already said a great deal of important things. i want to thank him very much. the fact is that the external aviation policy is about, first of all, seeing that the sky is international, that we are not just in europe but really worldwide in the airspace. it is important to make agreements, and we are doing that. but at the same time it is also very important that we take care of our european competitiveness with our legislation, including what we are offering here for the airlines. the airlines sometimes have difficulty in competing with others. emirates, for example, has a very different financial background than our airlines. so the challenge is really to see how we can operate internationally and still maintain a good balance locally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr marinescu mentioned him. it has been signed by all the member states, but its implementation is extremely difficult. we still fly zigzag in europe instead of straight lines. we must reduce this because it makes no sense either ecologically or economically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. by 2050, we're supposed to have nine billion people on the planet. and when you think about it, it's very clear that the land is not enough, that we need the sea even more than we have before. europe has been very farsighted in a way, since we developed an integrated maritime policy seven years ago, because we have realised that there is more and more economy around and with the sea, and more and more research around the sea. we want to use the sea in a sustainable way and to have something from the sea for a long time. that is why we have this integrated maritime policy. today is about blue growth. blue growth is virtually the maritime pillar of the eu 2020 strategy for more jobs and growth. these include marine energy, coastal tourism, blue biotechnology - only 10% of the ocean's potential has been explored - mineral resources and, of course, aquaculture, because people always like to eat fish. we have to develop a lot more, and we're on a very good path to do that. i would like to thank mr danellis very much for his report and mrs damanaki for her commitment to this subject.
deputising for the rapporteur. - mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur, yannick jadot, who unfortunately cannot be present here, i would like to convey his thoughts to you: it is to my great pleasure that this house will vote tomorrow on the report on the first annual report from the commission on the export credit activities of member states. this own-initiative report finishes, at least for this legislature, work which started more than three years ago, and i am deeply grateful and indebted to all shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive cooperation in this long-lasting endeavour. more than three years ago, an innocent dossier came to us in the committee on international trade (inta): the transposition of the latest oecd arrangements on export credit activities into eu law. it was one of those ‘thumbs-up’ dossiers, but it came to us under the ordinary legislative procedure shortly after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it was the time at which parliament was testing its new powers and becoming aware of its responsibilities, not only towards european citizens but also towards filling the spirit and the letter of the new treaty with concrete life. it was also the time at which the financial and economic crisis was unfolding in europe, and along with this came much higher tension over public spending. as the rapporteur for parliament, i asked myself what we as parliamentarians knew about the activities of the ecas of the member states, which to a large extent operate with public funds. it is not that i was in doubt about the usefulness of ecas for european companies; i only noticed that we knew very little. moreover, i detected no inherent relation between the work of the ecas of the member states and the new requirement of the lisbon treaty that all external activities of the union and its member states shall be conducted in the spirit of the union’s external action goals as enshrined in article 3 and article 21 teu. to my surprise, my thoughts were widely shared by all my colleagues in the international trade committee. while we might have deeply-rooted controversies about trade policy matters, we found – and still find ourselves – united under the roof of the lisbon treaty and its prerogatives. hence, i found almost full support across the entire political spectrum to ask the commission to provide parliament with an annual report about the ecas of the member states, and on its own activities, so as to get the emerging economies to adhere to the oecd arrangements for ecas. this new reporting requirement entails, in particular, an evaluation by the commission as to whether or not member states in their eca policies are applying the principle of fostering the union’s external action goals with regard, among other things, to the promotion of democracy and human rights and the achievement of the millennium development goals. the commission showed itself very helpful in conveying our message to the council. my thanks go therefore also to the commission, and in particular to mr denis redonnet. the report that will be voted tomorrow evaluates the commission’s first annual report on the reports of the member states on eca activities for the year 2011. we have to acknowledge that we are at the very beginning of this exercise. member states find it difficult to frame a report on such non-financial issues as to how they ensure their spending is used to foster human rights and democracy, or on how ecas screen environmental risks into the setting of their premiums. therefore, in the report, we make suggestions as to how such reporting could be done in future, and how the commission should be enabled to evaluate such reporting. the next set of reports by the member states will for sure be better, and i want to thank again all of my colleagues who in this legislature have laid the ground for making sure that, one day, europe will be a more consistent global actor for democracy and human rights.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 27 and 28 june 2013 (2012/2808 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! mr. verhofstadt, if you have a big mouth, you have to jump. and if you say that everything is so bad about the united states of america and the espionage attacks - and i share this indignation - then you have to decide at this point: de gucht does not open the negotiations! (applause from the centre) and i would like to compliment the strong woman in the european commission, viviane reding, who was the first to say that! the negotiations will be very much about challenging european standards, for example on data protection. that is why we cannot open negotiations until we have examined the extent of the problem. if there was any clarification needed, it came from secretary kerry yesterday, who stood up in the international community and said that this was all normal. so reding is right, stop de gucht and stop him now. (applause from the centre) the budget we are adopting may be very good for the duchess of alba. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not here. because that is precisely the structural problem of this budget. we're still going with the old, pre-modern priorities! we have more money for the agricultural industry than for the unemployed youth. 10 euros per head means what's in the youth guarantee! 10 euros a head. that's really cool. martin schulz, you know i was very disappointed with the rushed approval of this budget. it has everything to do with this poor decision on the youth guarantee. we in germany know what the problem of youth unemployment means. we have tried to overcome structural problems with the construction of the east, for example. what we need today is a building of europe, at least a building of southern europe! the recession in southern europe is the big problem. young people are becoming unemployed in large numbers every day. and as long as the europeans do not decide to do so, they can take the youth guarantee for granted! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my position on this is that at the moment, thanks to the revelations of the whistleblower snowden, i have proof that in the us there is a completely different idea regarding the protection of civil rights and data protection. we should give priority to negotiating an international data protection agreement before agreeing to a free trade agreement, otherwise european standards will be weakened in the end. my experience with swift, my experience with the agreement on the protection of passenger data, actually proves the scepticism that europeans must have.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we want a europe which can ultimately offer a future to all its citizens, and we know full well that treaties, agreements and decisions taken between the institutions either limit or increase the eu's development potential. the compromise presented to us last week is, in my view, a bad deal, with one loser above all: those who need the strengthening of programmes and projects to improve their social and ecological living conditions. it was put on hold last week. there is another loser, democracy, and in particular the participation of parliament in this so-called compromise and its corresponding rights. i think it is fatal that the americans are obviously more informed about what is being negotiated than we in the european parliament, in the broadest sense of all the political groups. we'd rather have other people at the table than ourselves. i have always been proud of the fact that parliament has in recent weeks defended itself in a broad front against what was negotiated in the council in february. and now we're gonna break that front ourselves! we may not need a qualified majority tomorrow when we vote on the resolution, but a simple majority is sufficient, and we may be able to rely on two groups. but what about in september when the regulation comes? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how can we negotiate this until september if we have already given up our positions? what is the value of flexibility if a large part of this year's deficits are carried over to the next budgetary framework? what's it worth? it's been moved from one year to the next. in the end, we are leaving loopholes so that the member states do not pay their payments as agreed! what is the value of a new commission that does not feel bound by what has been vaguely stated there? what about the 2016 revision? how binding is it? what about front-loading for youth unemployment? six billion of them! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. where are they? can you say specifically where those six billion are for the first two years, eight billion for the seven years? what does it mean then that we are putting something on which we cannot continue? we tell young people: "this is not your thing, what is going on here". rebecca harms is absolutely right. we have a structure here that is no longer in step with the realities of the european union, and we are not doing anything to put a definitive end to it and say: we must reverse this, because otherwise people will no longer trust us, because they will run away from us. what kind of signal are we sending? we are finally going after the bad deal and will adopt a welcome resolution tomorrow. i can't believe this! i can't believe this! is that what we're giving ourselves up for? i can only ask my colleagues to make it very clear that this deal is not what is needed. and politics must be measured by what is necessary, and not by where, perhaps, agreement can be reached on a very specific point, because the federal elections are coming up, because the european elections are coming up, and not because urgent social and environmental problems have to be solved. this can't be happening! the commission has already made a number of proposals. an apology is not enough! before we can even think about a free trade agreement, we must first clarify whether the us and the eu are on an equal footing and whether we respect each other with all our rights, with all our achievements and also with the standards we have developed.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the irish presidency's balance sheet, including the agreement on the mff (2012/2799 ((rsp)).
mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to point out that when we begin the debate i have already set the votes for 12.15 p.m. because otherwise i cannot finish the list of speakers. but we should finish the debate.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we greens will vote against this multiannual budget of the eu and, above all, against this bad compromise which has just been negotiated. it's a missed opportunity what we have on the table now. the whole budget is not forward-looking, it is backward-looking. we are still spending too much money on the wrong priorities: on direct payments to farmers, on the iter fusion reactor. but where we really need to invest now in the crisis, what we know, in real growth drivers, in a low-carbon economy, in green jobs, in many more opportunities for our young people, we're doing too little. there is still too little money for research and development, for education and for small and mediumsized enterprises. but that's where the real growth dynamics come from. and now you keep saying we've imposed total flexibility. that's not true! there is still a limit to flexibility. but that was the main point of the parliament's debate! don't sell things for gold that aren't gold. the negotiators are talking about the outcome. i say that the council has, above all - and this is deeply regrettable - been dominated by national egoisms. with this decision by the majority which is now emerging here and with your behaviour you will make the european parliament a political dwarf. that is wrong in the power struggle with the council. we should do the opposite!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 july 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
as no candidate received the required majority in the first round, the second round will be held tomorrow, 3 july 2013.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the adoption of my owninitiative report on improving road safety by 2020, i am pleased to see that the commission has consistently put forward legislative proposals that meet our demands. this is also true of the road safety package voted on today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. although i would have liked to see a more rigorous separation of inspection and maintenance personnel in connection with regular technical inspections, the compromise between the four-eyes principle and the certification of workshops and personnel is acceptable. the fact that heavy motorcycles will now also have to be tested from 2016 is a success for safety. the commission will show us by 2018 that light motorcycles are also relevant to accidents.
in writing. - i voted for the report by my colleague, mr werner kuhn, and therefore for an agreement on minimum european standards. firstly, i believe that with the ever-increasing movement of goods and passengers within the european union, uniform safety standards for motor vehicles, motorcycles and mopeds must also be ensured. on the other hand, i am also convinced that the german tüv system has so far proved itself very well in terms of safety standards: a first major review after four years, each subsequent one after two years. i also welcome the uniform and improved requirements for the qualification of inspectors, which will also make european roads safer for all road users. i also think that an obligation to document serious accidents is useful in order to provide more comprehensive information to buyers of used cars.
in writing. the commission's proposal, now amended, is to be welcomed in my view. it has recently been demonstrated that regular technical inspections contribute significantly to improving environmental friendliness, safety and also economic efficiency in the interests of consumers and users. the harmonisation of supervision will create a genuine 'level playing field' in europe as regards the reliability and safety of motor vehicles. the proposal sets minimum standards, such as the minimum frequency of technical inspection of four years and then every two years, and helps to make the above-mentioned benefits of controls available to everyone in europe. i also think it is right to leave motorcycles and their technical supervision to the member states first. in most cases, this is not a matter of genuine relevance to the internal market.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights: standards and practices in hungary (based on the european parliament resolution of 16 february 2012) (2012/2130 (ini)) (a7-0229/2013). i welcome the prime minister of hungary, mr viktor orbán, as a participant in our debate. i would like to welcome you, mr orbán. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by making the following suggestion. i have also agreed with mr orbán, who asked me to speak in this debate, and with the group chairmen as follows: i would like to begin by giving the floor to mr tavares, our rapporteur. the commission will then be represented by mr barroso, president of the commission. the council of the european union is not represented. that is a decision i cannot comment on, only note. mr orbán is sitting on the council benches, but he is not logically representing the council, but his government, which, when it is here, is clearly sitting on the council benches. according to mr barroso, in the absence of an opinion from the european council, i would give the floor to mr orbán as head of the hungarian government. the debate will then begin. we shall see how this develops in the course of the debate. i reserve the right to say what procedural needs arise in the course of the debate, including the division of words.
president of the european commission. − mr president, prime minister orbán, honourable members, today we are discussing a parliamentary report on a subject which the commission is following with the utmost attention. let me then start by thanking the rapporteur, rui tavares. protecting the values and principles on which the european union is founded is a matter of fundamental importance. in april the commission explained to this house the approach that we have taken as regards the recent developments in the hungarian constitutional system. i would like to start by providing you with an update on the commission’s actions in this respect. the commission expressed concerns about the conformity of the fourth amendment to the hungarian fundamental law – which was adopted on 11 march – both with european law and with the principle of the rule of law. i have raised these concerns repeatedly with the prime minister, viktor orbán, in my contacts with him and in formal letters sent to him. i have also worked closely – very closely indeed – with secretary-general jagland of the council of europe. we have together identified, from the beginning of the process, the main concerns, and we fully share them. we have worked together smoothly, each of us within the remit of our competences, and ensured close cooperation and exchange of information. in this context, the commission has played a very active role as the guardian of the treaties. after a detailed analysis of the fourth amendment to the hungarian fundamental law, the commission identified three issues where compatibility with european union law is at stake. firstly, there is an ad hoc tax for the european court of justice’s judgments, entailing payment obligations. secondly, there is the regime for transferring cases between courts. thirdly, there are the restrictions on the publication of political advertisements, specifically during european parliament election campaigns. in order to address these concerns, the hungarian authorities have offered solutions for the first two issues by proposing changes to the fundamental law and implementing legislation. in particular, the hungarian authorities propose to remove the current clause on the european court of justice’s judgments entailing payment obligations from the fundamental law and to eliminate the system of transferring cases between courts from the hungarian legal system, including from the fundamental law. the commission welcomes these announcements from the hungarian authorities. we will monitor the specific implementing steps which must be taken by the hungarian parliament in order to effectively dispel the existing concerns on these two points, including the necessary changes at constitutional level which are expected to be voted upon after this summer. on the restrictions of political advertisements, specifically during european parliament election campaigns, the commission and the hungarian authorities are still in contact with a view to finding a satisfactory solution in line with eu law before the start of the next electoral campaign. on 28 june 2013 – last friday – prime minister orbán sent me a letter indicating the hungarian government’s readiness to address the commission’s concerns. i welcome this recent information. let me assure this house that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will continue to ensure that legislation – and in the hungarian case the fundamental law of the state – is made compatible with eu law where necessary. we have showed all our diligence just as we did last year, when we launched two infringement cases against hungary. one of them, concerning the early retirement age for judges, was confirmed in november 2012 by the european court of justice declaring the related hungarian legislation incompatible with european union law. the commission is currently monitoring the application of the new law and is verifying that the reinstatement of dismissed judges is being carried out as announced. a second case concerns the violation of the independence of the data protection authority and is pending before the court. here again, the hungarian authorities and prime minister orbán personally, have committed to respecting the ruling of the european court of justice. all these actions have borne out the validity of the commission’s actions and of the priority that we have given to our role as guardian of the treaties. these decisions are part of a determined effort on the part of the commission to ensure full respect for european union law by all member states, and they have been efficient. the hungarian authorities have committed to changing their fundamental law in order to make it fully compatible with european union law, but we all know that other issues are at stake which go beyond european union law. this is why the commission has always made clear to the hungarian authorities the need to work and give appropriate answers to these other issues. on 17 june 2013, the venice commission issued its opinion on the fourth amendment to the hungarian fundamental law. the opinion of the venice commission confirmed our concerns as regards the compatibility of the fourth amendment with the rule of law. we expect the hungarian authorities to take due account of this important opinion and to address it in full accordance with both european union and council of europe principles, rules and values. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe decided, on 25 june 2013, not to launch a so-called monitoring procedure against hungary. it has adopted a resolution urging the hungarian authorities, in close cooperation with the venice commission, to fully address the concerns and implement recommendations contained in the venice commission’s opinion. the commission has been following with great interest the work of the parliament in the tavares report, as adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. from the beginning, i have asked the hungarian authorities to engage in a political dialogue with parliament in order to address the recommendations of the resolution you will vote on tomorrow. i think the presence among us today of prime minister orbán is clearly a sign of their willingness to engage in such a dialogue with parliament. parliament’s resolution touches on issues concerning the rule of law in the european union, and this is an issue of high importance to the commission. this is a fundamental question for the union, which requires that all european union institutions, member states and other stakeholders engage in a constructive dialogue on this matter. in my state of the union speech here in the parliament in september 2012, i explicitly called for a better-developed set of instruments to address threats to our fundamental values, the rule of law and democracy. the commission will perform its reflection in the months to come, and we will inform and discuss it with this house in good time before the european elections. it already seems clear at this stage that any initiative in this matter should bring real added value and be able to effectively address systemic and significant threats to the legal and democratic fabric in member states which go against the common european values referred to in article 2 of the treaty on european union. we also feel that we need to share with each other the experiences we are gaining from a number of initiatives that are already ongoing. these initiatives include, first of all, the european union justice scoreboard. presented in march, this is a tool designed as part of the european semester process to promote effective, independent and high-quality justice systems in europe. in addition to this, the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania and bulgaria is another instrument from which general lessons can be drawn. the upcoming anti-corruption report will also need to be taken into account in this reflection. finally, the commission is also following the situation of freedom of speech and media in member states closely. we should not forget that an independent and well-performing judiciary is also of the greatest economic relevance in terms of legal certainty and investor confidence. this is why the country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester also included recommendations for certain member states to take measures to improve and strengthen their justice systems. besides the european semester process, judicial reforms are also part of the economic adjustment programmes. we need to establish how to enforce our capacity to better address concerns about the rule of law in member states. we should also think about ways to prevent situations which raise concerns from occurring at all. the commission is convinced that respect for the rule of law is a matter which requires all european institutions to work together closely. the commission is determined to ensure a proper and constructive follow-up and contribution to this debate with its future reflection. i ask all member states to demonstrate their commitment to the european union’s values and principles, notably by addressing the concerns of the parliament. we expect determination and unambiguity in doing so in the best interests of the whole european union and of all our citizens who want to see their rights and freedoms protected in respect of the rule of law and our common european values.
prime minister of hungary. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. first of all, i would like to convey the greetings of the hungarian people to the members of the european parliament. i express my appreciation to the president of the european commission and thank the commission for the open and productive dialogue that has so far resolved the issues at issue. i have no illusions about the outcome of the vote tomorrow. i know that the socialist, liberal and green mps will vote against hungary, and i also know that the friends of hungary will stand with hungary. i know that my words cannot change that fact, but i have come here today to pay tribute and to express my respect for the european parliament and its elected representatives. i want to express through the respect i have shown you the friendship that hungarians - your voters - feel for the citizens of europe. regardless of your decision, the hungarians think of the people of europe with respect and friendship. ladies and gentlemen, the response to the report which seriously offends hungary, which was prepared by the hungarian government, is now being handed over as a memorandum to the president of the parliament. this report is deeply unfair to hungary and the hungarian people. he openly uses double standards, he doesn't recognize, he belittles and he devalues the enormous work that the hungarians have done to rebuild their country, even though the hungarians have made great efforts and worked hard to get out of the bankruptcy that we were in at the beginning of the financial crisis. we started from the bottom, before greece, the hungarian economy collapsed first. only the financial breathing machine of the imf and the european union kept hungary alive. ladies and gentlemen, there are only two countries that have been able to get out of the aid program so far. one is hungary, which is now entirely financed by the financial markets. i can tell you, we are a people who do not want to live on the taxpayers' money of other countries. you're on your own, and you're running your own farm. we've been reducing the national debt every year. we have just been released from the excessive deficit procedure. the balance of trade and payments is strongly positive, the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, the number of people in work is increasing, pensions and wages are rising in purchasing value, so we hungarians rightly feel that we have done our homework. ladies and gentlemen, members of the house of representatives, the report presented is a serious threat to europe. not for hungary, because hungary has worked against the backdrop of the european parliament. your decision tomorrow is a real threat to the future of europe. the proposal in the report violates the founding treaties. it wants to set up a specific institution, not recognised by the eu treaties, which would bring one of the eu member states under its control and patronage. this disregards the powers of the european parliament, the division of tasks between the institutions of the european union and the legal balances between the member states and the union. it arbitrarily sets binding criteria, introduces new procedures and creates new institutions in contrast to the founding treaties. ladies and gentlemen, this is a dangerous direction! i've been through the same thing as central europe. i know what it's like to not be able to control your own life because somewhere far away in another country, someone else is making decisions for you. i've experienced what it's like to be a second-class citizen. i've experienced what it's like to be double-checked up there. we have suffered, we have suffered for decades, the powerful abusing their power. yes, we central europeans know well what it is like when they do not respect the independence and freedom of our nation. i joined the anti-communist resistance and the freedom fighters so that we could put an end to this and never have to live through things like this again, and now i'm here to tell you that, having learned from these experiences, we hungarians do not want a europe where successful countries are punished instead of being recognized! we do not want a europe where unity expressed by a two-thirds majority is condemned instead of respected! we do not want a europe where people are put under guardianship, where freedom is restricted and not fulfilled! we do not want a europe where the majority abuses its power and the majority abuses its power! we do not want a europe where double standards are used, where only the smaller must respect the larger! ladies and gentlemen, and that's why we will fight anyone who uses double standards, who abuses their power, and who wants to treat us like second-class citizens. we will fight those who want to make an empire out of our union! we are among those - and there are many millions of us in europe - who do not want a europe of subjugation, but a europe of free nations. long live the european union of free nations!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: democracy and the rule of law are at the heart of the european idea. this canon of values must be protected, and that is why it is right and good that we are discussing it today. i thank the prime minister of hungary, viktor orbán, for taking this approach seriously and for taking the european parliament seriously as a place of debate and for being present at the debate. welcome to the club. the rule of law is, for the european people's party, first and foremost a matter of fair procedures. the commission has examined and has always had the backing of the european people's party to put all the facts on the table. the hungarian side has reacted, has worked, as we have just been told by commission president barroso. in addition, the council of europe, the champion of the left here in the house, has decided that monitoring of hungary is not necessary, that is to say that no further monitoring is necessary from the council of europe's point of view. so what are we talking about today? there is little left of the analysis of facts. the commission says hungary has delivered. the council of europe rejects a monitoring procedure. so today is not about fact-checking, it's about politics. we are also a parliament, so it is right that we should talk about politics. if we look at the report now, we see many of these political points. for example, it denies hungary the right to define the family as a relationship between a man and a woman. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the hungarians do not agree, then please let them vote for another parliament next time. secondly, hungary has decided to include the christian roots in its constitution. ladies and gentlemen, just as britain has the right to declare the queen the head of her church, and no one can object to that, so hungary has the right to enshrine the christian roots of its history in its constitution. they have that right, and the majority on the left cannot take that away from them. thirdly, the suggestion that we should have an electoral surveillance system in europe for 2014 - it is simply not acceptable to impose this on a european country. so if we are doing politics, i wonder why we did not discuss fico when he was polemizing against the hungarian minority in slovakia? why did we not discuss romania last year here? we proposed this: clear violation of the constitution by romanian socialists in their own government. and why did you vote against bulgaria yesterday? i have to say this here, mr swoboda, because you will certainly leave the debate later when we talk about bulgaria. i am asking myself: what is the toad that the socialists in bulgaria had to swallow when they joined forces with the ataka? what was promised to the right-wing extremists? these are the real questions when it comes to breaking the law. i am sorry to say that i see mr verhofstadt sitting here too, but he was so small when he voted because he felt bad about it when he wanted to push the debate into the libe committee. (applause from the centre) these are the real debates we have to have when it comes to the rule of law in this european union. we have confidence in hungary. hungary is a land of freedom. hungary has fought its way out of communism, and we have confidence in the hungarian people. (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. first of all, did you know that hungary is a democracy, which has elected fidesz with a two-thirds majority, so you can't just make a distinction between the regime and the people as in a dictatorship? secondly, do you know that hungary has the best protection of minorities of any european country and that it has a first-class roma member of parliament in this house, namely our colleague járóka from fidesz?
now two hungarian colleagues have come forward at exactly the same time, mr bagó and mr gyürk. could you please agree amongst yourselves who is speaking? thank you, sir.
mr cohn-bendit, first of all, this is not my orbán. i'll have to find out. i also attach great importance to that. i think he's the other way around. second, on your mark. i think that i have not been noticed so far for my restraint in criticising mr orbán. i have not heard him compare the european union to the soviet union, or at least not here. if he did, i would intervene. he didn't do that. if he insinuates it, it is a matter of interpretation, not the president of parliament's, but the political assessment of the house. if he had done so, i would have intervened with mr orbán! i think that the president should not intervene in the case of others who have spoken, whether they are saying something or holding up signs.
yes, i can confirm that you have given your consent to mr orbán's presence here. on the contrary, you specifically encouraged me to agree to this. (interruption by mr szájer) that was a question to you, mr. szájer, and to me. please, mr. sajer, please!
mr. sajer, that's enough of that! this is not working! you cannot compare this debate to the show trials of stalin! (applause from the centre) with all due respect to the emotionality of this debate, that is not possible! and there are two things that don't work. mr verhofstadt is one of the members of this house and of the conference of presidents who have specifically encouraged me to invite as many members of the european council, i.e. heads of government, as possible. what you just said about him is not true at all! this is simply and painfully wrong! and secondly, i'm going to tell you again: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm calling you to order. (applause from the centre) (interruption by mr szájer) mr szájer, you can come to the rules of procedure, that is your right, but no blue card. please state the rule to which you refer.
mr. szájer, once again, perhaps you'll take the headphones, i don't know how well you understand german: the time for speaking in this house is allocated according to the strength of the political groups. the epp group is given a proportion of the speaking time in proportion to its number of seats. it is therefore absolutely impossible to go and say - i repeat what you have just said - that even the defendants in the show trials of joseph stalin had more time to speak than we did. this is a case-by-case comparison of your speaking time with the possibilities of defendants in show trials to defend themselves. this is an unacceptable derailment! i would therefore say to you once again: do not try to repeat it, because what you have just said has no place in this parliament! (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, you may disagree with me on the content of this report. and everyone is free to take a position on the report by mr tavares and to express his views publicly. but what is not possible is that you are questioning the democratic legitimacy of the action of this house. this report was commissioned by a majority vote. it was put on this agenda by a majority vote. you cannot say that the majority in hungary is legitimate on the one hand and that the majority that has been formed in this parliament is illegitimate on the other hand because you do not agree with the content. that's not possible! you can be for or against the report. but the report is a legitimate matter for this house.
that's not a question. that's a speech.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as president barroso has recalled, the commission has on several occasions expressed concerns directly with the hungarian authorities about the conformity of the hungarian laws, both with union law and with the rule-of-law principle. the commission has thus actively played its role as guardian of the treaties. you will recall that last year we launched two infringement cases against hungary, one concerning the forced early retirement of judges, which was confirmed by the court of justice. the hungarian parliament has amended the law and the commission is currently monitoring the application of the new law. the second question, which is still before the court of justice, is the question of the independence of the data protection authority. this year, after a detailed analysis of the fourth amendment to the fundamental law of hungary, the commission has identified three issues where the compatibility with eu law was at stake. firstly, the ad hoc tax for european court of justice judgments entailing payment obligations; secondly, the regime for transfers of cases between courts and; thirdly, the restriction on publication of political advertisements, namely during european parliament election campaigns. the hungarian authorities have offered solutions on the first two issues. the commission continues to monitor their concrete implementation. on the third issue, the european parliament election campaigns, contacts are still ongoing between the commission and hungary. the hungarian authorities indicated last week their readiness to address the commission’s concerns. as you can see, the commission is trying to play its role fully as the guardian of the treaties, not refraining from using all the tools at its disposal. when it does this, it does so in the tradition of lady justice, blind to influences of a political nature, but in full respect of the rule of law. let me assure this house that the commission will continue to ensure that legislation is made compatible with eu law and that the values inscribed in the charter of fundamental rights are applied in real terms. the commission has been following with great interest the work in the different committees on the tavares report. the commission has already asked the hungarian authorities to engage in a political dialogue with parliament in order to address the recommendations of any resolution the parliament votes on tomorrow. in the same way, we will also follow how the report of the venice commission is addressed. in the tavares report there is one important element which i would like to underline, namely the whole debate on how to best preserve and defend the rule of law in the european union as a whole, outside the hungarian case which are discussing today. this is of great importance to the commission, as has already been underlined by president barroso, because it is a debate of general interest to the european union. it relates to the so-called copenhagen dilemma – how to act when the rule of law is put in danger in a member state after this member state has joined the european union. we believe that there are some existing initiatives which could help in this endeavour. there is the recent eu justice scoreboard that i presented in march 2013 and the country-specific recommendations in the european semester in order to promote effective independent and high-quality justice systems. we also have the experience to be drawn from the cooperation and verification mechanisms. but we know that we have to go a step further, as also suggested in the tavares report. the commission will engage in a dialogue with the european and the national institutions. at the council level, you may know that a debate has already started in the general affairs and justice council meetings, which will continue this autumn. i also believe that the views of the judiciary are important as well. in this context, the commission is organising ‘assises de la justice’ in november 2013, a conference on the role of justice in the eu, to which i have also invited the president of this house and the chairs of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on legal affairs. the conference will bring together senior policy makers at european and national level, judges from the supreme court and other courts, judicial authorities, legal professions and other stakeholders. as a preparation for this conference, participants will be invited to present contributions, focusing notably on the independence and efficiency of justice systems and on ways to better safeguard respect for the rule of law in the eu. we hope that this will allow for a structured process of dialogue and debate, including all the relevant stakeholders, and which will be able to bring real added value. following the process of this dialogue and debate, the commission will in due course present its position on further instruments to take forward the debate on the rule of law. let me conclude by saying that the commission is convinced that respect for the rule of law is a matter which requires all eu institutions to work very closely together. i assure you that the commission is determined to ensure a proper and constructive follow-up to the decisions this house will present tomorrow. (applause)
prime minister of hungary. − for those who missed your detailed replies to my tavares report, i would like to say that we have given the president a memorandum prepared by the hungarian government, and this memorandum was received by all of you electronically at the same time as my speech. it covers every detail. i would like to tell mr swoboda that investment in hungary is growing steadily, as are austrian and german investments. since our government took over, we've opened 18 new large german factories. what you're talking about is different. you're talking about people who don't like the hungarian economic policy. they're bankers and monopoly utilities, and we're having a dispute with them. we tax the banks, reduce the cost of the recession with public funds, and introduce a fair public burden. we think it's the right thing to do. even if you and the business groups you represent don't like it. hungary will continue to tax the banks and in the autumn we will further reduce the cost of recession in hungary the price of gas and electricity by state, governmental means even if this is not to the liking of the banks and large international companies. ladies and gentlemen, as for the lesson in democracy that was given to me, i just want to remind everyone that after 1990, in free elections, i and the community that i lead won and lost elections, so let me say on behalf of our political community that we do not need a lecture on the nature of democracy. as regards the jewish sect, mr. chairman, i would like to draw your attention to an important point. i am the focus of the attack on anti-semitic groups and radical anti-semitic groups in hungary. i stand as the defender of the jewish community, which is why i am attacked first on every website, every blog, every anti-semitic forum, and only then our jewish compatriots. this is an important circumstance i'd like to draw your attention to. as for the restriction of freedom, ladies and gentlemen, i see that there are those who do not know the hungarian nation and the character of the hungarian people. even the soviets and the communists failed to limit freedom in hungary, and we disrupted them at the first opportunity. therefore, to speak of the possibility of restricting the freedom of the hungarian people is to misunderstand the hungarian nation. there was a comment that, if i remember correctly, was that lgbt groups, if i understand correctly, could affect the rights of homosexuals. i want to be very clear. in hungary, we have a clear constitutional regulation. marriage and family means that you're a man and a woman, and one of each. a man, a woman. this isn't about anyone. it's about us protecting a 4,000-year-old tradition. we can argue about whether this tradition should be upheld, but one thing, please, accept it. it's a 4,000-year-old tradition. 2000 years in jewish culture and 2000 years in christianity, and we simply want to keep this tradition alive, and i don't understand why any member of the european parliament thinks that he can limit our right to keep this tradition alive in hungary. the hungarian constitution doesn't hurt anyone, but it's clear. ladies and gentlemen, several people have quoted the venice commission report. i would like to remind you that the venice commission is the council of europe's body of experts. the council of europe adopted several resolutions. i quote from the decision on hungary, the council of europe's decision. it reads as follows: as a result of the 2010 elections, a coalition of parties won a two-thirds majority in parliament, which in line with european standards provides legitimacy for changing the constitution. i will quote another decision of the council of europe. it reads as follows: the hungarian parliament, for the first time in the history of a democratic and free hungary, amended the one-party constitution through a democratic procedure, through intensive parliamentary debate, and with the consent of hungarian civil society, and created a new and modern basic law. finally, i quote the venice commission itself as saying: 'the law amending the election of members of parliament from 2014 provides a good basis for genuine and democratic elections.' therefore, honourable hungarian opposition members, i feel it is unworthy that the debates between the left and the right of the parties operating in hungary should be continued here in the european parliament. this is unworthy of our country, so i ask the hungarian opposition members not to do this. i want to remind you that we won our forces in an election in 2010, and i like to think that in 2010, our government got two-thirds because our virtues were so powerful, but i guess that's not the case. it took all the mistakes you made. why bring up this debate again when it was already decided by the hungarian voters? ladies and gentlemen, there was an interesting debate about the relationship between the european parliament and the soviet union. that's an interesting question. comparison of brussels and moscow. certainly, during the soviet period, i could not have expressed my opinion in moscow, mr. president. if i had been lucky enough to tell you, i don't think they would have let me go home, so it's safe to assume that the two entities are not equal. but there's something i want to bring up in the shadow approach. we remember well when the decision of the hungarian freedom and the decision of the fate of hungary were not left to the hungarians. and we knew exactly that from ourselves - the way you're doing this here - that somewhere else, someone was trying to protect us. you don't have to protect the hungarians from themselves. this is a free and democratic people who can decide their own destiny, if they're allowed to do so. ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, i have to say that the report you are discussing is unfair to my country, deeply offensive. its author and those who will accept it are abusing their power, applying double standards to my country, so of course i see no reason to change my opinion as expressed at the beginning of this debate. of course, when a parliament adopts a resolution, it always does so on a party basis, and therefore in a legitimate way. it is neither my place nor my right to question the legitimacy of the parliamentary decision that will be taken here tomorrow, but it is the nature of all parliamentary political decisions to be partisan. it will be a very biased decision, and therefore biased, and the situation is that, as far as parliamentary decisions are concerned, the accuser and the judge will be the same. those who accuse us will vote tomorrow in a majority for a resolution condemning us, so i am not in a position to accept this resolution on behalf of hungary. a lot of people say they're our friends, but they'll vote against us. they say it's the job of friends to tell their criticisms to their friends, and mr. president, please, there's a lot of truth to that. and if you could tell me your criticisms, i'd appreciate it, but you don't tell me your criticisms. in this report you propose to put hungary under political tutelage, and i can never accept that you want to put my country under political tutelage. hungary is a free country, so we won't accept the report. thank you for your kind attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's what we've all been waiting for: it has become a political debate, as is good in parliament. we've heard that some people don't like the hungarian government. we've heard that some people don't like the definition of family. we have discussed these issues a lot, and that's a good thing. but on the issues we should be discussing, namely the violations of the law, the breakdown of the rule of law, we have unfortunately heard nothing new today. hungary, and i say this to prime minister orbán, must accept the rules of the game it has accepted with membership of the european union. and hungary has accepted these rules of the game because it has implemented and fulfilled many of the conditions, as viviane reding has written on behalf of the commission. and if hungary thinks that we have a different view of the law in certain areas, then, according to our principle, the ecj, the european court of justice, will clarify that. we are asking for no more and no less when we talk about fairness in dealing with hungary today. if hungary accepts the rules of the game, then the left majority in this house should also accept the rules of the game, in the sense that what is the task of budapest, what is the national task, should also be the national task, and the european parliament must not become the big brother who tells everyone how to live. the hungarians themselves can decide how they want to live their national responsibilities. i would like to conclude by saying to mr tavares that we as the epp are concerned about one thing. the report also refers to the initiative of the foreign ministers to establish a new procedure, which viviane reding has just presented, in which the article 7 question is not always raised. we as the epp welcome this new procedure, we are open to these discussions. we believe that we need more opportunities to ensure that there is clarity on the issue of fundamental rights throughout europe. but unfortunately, after this question has been linked to the political attacks, we still cannot comply with it. i would like to make it quite clear. finally, i would like to thank you again for the fact that fico is not here. ponta's not here. many other socialists are not here. orbán was here! the epp is taking up the debate and that is good! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have been wondering all along what the point of today's debate is. why did you, mr orbán, attach such importance to this - you have the right to do so, and that is good - but what was your intention in coming here to discuss this with us? i have listened to your first contribution, and i have now listened to your replies. i have not the impression that you have come here to talk to us about what is written in the report and what, in your view, needs to be corrected or wherever you think you need to say, yes, we will also think about it again and we think that is a good approach for a joint discussion. no, you have just told us that those who agree with mr tavares' report are against hungary and only those who are friends of hungary will reject it. you have opened a confrontation that prevents any political discussion. they don't want it. so why did you come here? is it more or less to show to the outside, to show in hungary itself, that i come here and i defend you? is that what you want? what does this have to do with political culture, with debate? they tell us that in hungary we decide how we want to live. yes, of course, i'm sure. but you decide for all the people in hungary? do you have the right, in the light of an election result, to decide on every single individual and to tell each and every individual that you have to live this way and that way? what about the lessons of failed state socialism? does this not mean that the question of collective human rights and individual rights must be brought together? you talk about collective rights: the election result has put us in a position to tell everyone else what to do. you don't even notice whether it's about the question of living together, whether it's about different political views, whether it's just the way to produce or do something in your country that doesn't fit with your ideas that this has a right, that this is justified and that this also needs to be protected by you. it has been said before that democracy requires that i deal with minorities. please, if you are already making comparisons with earlier times, then i say to you, coming from a former state socialist country: even 99% election results have not prevented such a system from collapsing, when people realize that they themselves are no longer respected individually! please take note of that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 july 2013 at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am so excited to stand here today and for the next 179 days i am going to be your frequent guest, and a partner willing to work with you very actively and constructively. you have invited the presidency to deliver a statement on the current political situation in bulgaria. this is an issue which i know has given grounds for concern across this parliament. i appreciate that politically it is a matter which you consider important enough to warrant discussion and i fully respect your wishes to organise such a debate in which you have requested that the council participates. i am willing to listen to the views which you wish to convey on this issue. however, i am afraid i am not in a position to take a position on behalf of the council simply because the council has not discussed the internal situation in bulgaria and therefore has nothing to say on this issue. it is rather rare for the council to hold discussions that touch upon the internal situation of any of its member states. it is, of course, rather different for this house, for this parliament. it is the role of any parliament to discuss matters of topical interest and in particular those issues where it has specific concerns. that is your role, mine is to represent the council and the council consists of 28 member states of which bulgaria happens to be one. i therefore look forward to hearing your views. my task here is representing the presidency and, where i can, relay the views of the council to parliament but also act as a channel for your views back to the council. i will follow this debate very carefully and attentively and will be taking note of the range of opinions which will doubtless be expressed here this evening.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, now the commission has been looking with concern at recent developments in bulgaria. while we respect the national competences, certain situations can have repercussions for the union as a whole and i am referring particularly to the controversy generated by the appointment of the head of the bulgarian national security agency. this body, on the basis of the recent transfer of competences, is instrumental in the fight against organised crime. the commission took note and welcomed the fact that the bulgarian parliament voted to withdraw the controversial appointment. president barroso was very clear when he met with prime minister oresharski two weeks ago. on that occasion, the president indicated that developments have raised concerns not only for the commission but, most importantly within bulgarian society as well. in this context, the commission stresses the need to follow future appointments to strategic posts: a process which is open, transparent and based on the merits of the candidates has to be put in place. current political events and public demonstrations in bulgaria point to the need to reform the country. they also indicate the depth of concern in bulgarian society about the rule of law. bulgaria must continue its reform efforts and it is now the time to step up the efforts to reform the judicial system and fight corruption and organised crime. the commission will continue use the cooperation and verification mechanisms that gives it a particular role in supporting and monitoring progress in bulgaria in this area. the commission is determined to ensure that member states respect fully their obligations under eu law and to that end we will not hesitate in using all instruments at our disposal. in the case of bulgaria, the commission is committed to continue to help and assist bulgaria in order to help deliver the results and make the necessary reforms. the cooperation and verification mechanism is an efficient instrument in this context.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i look around and i see that the interest of the socialists in fundamental rights is obviously over. there is no one left who wants to talk about bulgaria. we all wanted to discuss fundamental rights in europe, both in hungary and in bulgaria and romania. no one's here anymore, the cameras are off. that is the understanding of you socialists when it comes to these questions. i have not yet received a reply, ladies and gentlemen. perhaps one of the few socialists left here can give us an answer. hannes swoboda said at the formation of the government in bulgaria that the toad of the right-wing radicals had to be swallowed. this is an original quote from hannes swoboda, the socialist leader in this house. i'd like an answer to my question, which toad was that? what did the right-wing radicals get promised to get to power? the voters have not given the socialists a majority in bulgaria. we are still waiting for the answer. was it money that flowed? were you promised jobs? was there any promise of russian influence? we have the first decisions on nuclear power plants, the orders go to russia. what happened in bulgaria? we have a right to an answer. the commissioner, the vice-president, rightly points out that the first decisions of this new government are dramatic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. it's not transparent. we have personnel decisions that are downright ridiculous. the media are being made the heads of the authorities responsible for fighting organised crime through backroom diplomacy, and then they have to be removed because in sofia, thank god, tens of thousands of people are taking to the streets and are not happy with what socialists are doing there. the lack of a state based on the rule of law and the lack of understanding of democracy in bulgaria is a sign of poverty. i hope the socialists come to their senses. we ask the commission to keep a close eye on developments, as viviane reding has already done, and to ensure that fundamental rights are respected in bulgaria. we ask the socialists not to look for excuses, not to discuss the past, but to tell the truth to their party friends, especially the european party leader stanishev. and we ask as the epp that bulgaria be returned to a democratic state. we ask that new elections be held. this is the only way to restore stability in bulgaria. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can only relate that to myself. i have been here since 3 p.m., i have discussed hungary, we have said the necessary criticisms of hungary, and i see a yawning emptiness in the prominent speakers of the socialists. there is no one left: swoboda is gone, verhofstadt is gone, cohn-bendit is gone - all those who always make a big show of themselves here in these matters. that's what we're criticizing! the crucial question is whether the socialists will have the strength to tell their friends in bulgaria the truth and say: 'this is no longer the way to go!' it would have been honest if they had accepted the election result and formed a grand coalition, made borisov prime minister - that would have been the task of the socialists in bulgaria, and they made a pact with the devil. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. if you are already making the comparison with hungary, i would like to answer that. if you were to see this in the hungarian case, it would be the same as if viktor orbán entered into a coalition with jobbik, that is, with the radical right. jobbik is not part of the government in hungary. you're saying that this socialist government will collapse like a house of cards if the ataka party gives in tomorrow. they are dependent on the tolerance of right-wing radicals. you'll have to face that for the next few years if you don't come to your senses. we're not gonna let this go!
madam president, for once i will speak english. to my mind, the basic problem in bulgaria is that we are faced with a last-minute attempt from the old nomenklatura and their successors – both in the almost unreformed socialist party and in some oligarchic structures, and supported by russian interests – to turn the tide before the judiciary and other state institutions can finally establish themselves independently and in accordance with the constitution. why is it that the prime concern of foreign minister vigenin is to reinstate old stasi ambassadors and to make georgi dimitrov – whose file from the communist time is well known – general-secretary of the foreign ministry? why is it that the anti-corruption office has been closed down and integrated, in spite of their excellent cooperation with other member states and their successful fight against organised crime? this, of course, endangered the criminal oligarchic structures, and this is why mr peevski should have become the boss – the key player – with his tv7 channel, which has spread false rumours about alleged election fraud. he was to have been rewarded. mr stanishev, the socialist leader, is the one who coordinates it all. i recommend that you have a tough talk with him.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the floods of the past few weeks have caused immense damage. our sympathy and condolences go out to the people who were affected. we are grateful to the emergency services, the volunteer fire brigades, the technical assistance service and similar organizations in all the member states. great things have been done in aid. the scale of the damage was well illustrated by visits to the elbe district of dresden and deggendorf in bavaria. we were there as the alde group and we could see that the rescue services were very helpful. but we also have to say that flood protection needs to be improved urgently, all the way. we need integrated flood protection systems, we need better and earlier information, we need better flood management, across borders. the eu must help, coordinate and provide funds. and we should also consider the environmental issue. the sealing is an issue, and then of course the question of forestry policy. we believe that something can be done here. and of course, we have to adapt to climate change. we demand that the eu disburse the funds swiftly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i am glad that commissioner lewandowski has announced that the commission will do everything possible to ensure that the victims are helped in a timely manner.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner, i cannot share your rather positive assessment. "it could have been worse" is not a response to the devastation in central europe that the flood has created. that's an unknown level of destruction. there were more deaths. many places, homes, and businesses were completely destroyed after 11 years, even though they had just been built. some places were barely spared. but others have been hit even harder. why was the destruction so great again? why didn't we learn anything from the great flood of 2002? were the dams not high enough? the commission has already made a number of proposals. this second flood and its course is the answer to that question. with higher dams, we can only partially counter the flooding. it may save some, but it brings even more misfortune to others. the answer is simply that with more money we must create more natural floodplains, not higher dams. we need these floodplains above all in the upper river basins. we should bury the plans to level rivers. i don't want any more money coming in. only if the rivers have floodplains from source to mouth do we have a chance to really prevent such floods. that's the answer to those questions!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the floods have indeed hit germany, the east of germany, as well as my home region of bavaria. and you can be sure, the pictures of the hundreds of volunteers who filled and hauled sandbags, who secured and eventually cleaned up dikes, the students who showed solidarity, who left the universities, i will never forget them for the rest of my life. it is good that the european social fund exists. we have a lot of talk about solidarity. this is what i keep telling people in my region: now you can see that europe is helping too. it is also important that this aid from the solidarity fund should be rapid and, above all, unbureaucratic. and where this is not the case for various reasons, we must learn from it quickly and change the rules of these funds. let me make one more appeal to the regions: the new regional fund regulation allows us to continue to use european structural funds for floods after 2013. we need it to contain disasters. take advantage of this opportunity for the people on the ground!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i come from a country with 2.3 million inhabitants and damages of 2 billion euros in the first analysis. this is a very large sum and it is unsatisfactory if we are constantly talking about the possibilities of the solidarity fund, but nowhere is money flowing and no prospect of this is given. so something has to change here. the second deficiency that has occurred concerns cooperation along a river. we need to work together across borders here, and we also need to take the opportunity to really use all the pre-flood opportunities that are available, even if they are not needed now, at this point, in this place, but to lower the level at the top of the river. that's the crucial point. the pressure was so high that the dam just broke, which would probably not have happened if the flood potential in other regions had been exploited. i also believe that the reform of the structural funds, the conversion of land, should be implemented and that we should use the possibilities of the greening aspect of the common agricultural policy for areas which can be used for flooding.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we must finally increase the financial industry's share of the costs of the crisis. the social democrats have been fighting for years for a financial transaction tax. the european parliament, after difficult negotiations under the leadership of our esteemed greek colleague, mrs anni podimata, has now reached a very good compromise, which is technically and objectively balanced. we should like to thank the honourable member for this excellent result. the compromise reached shows very clearly that there is no longer any valid argument which seriously and substantially opposes the comprehensive taxation of the financial markets. on the contrary, at a time when every euro is urgently needed to create new jobs and stimulate investment in growth, we must finally learn the right lessons from the crisis with the financial transaction tax. however, the financial industry has tried everything to stop the advance with faint objections in the run-up to the european parliament's vote. it is therefore of the utmost importance to this house that it not be swayed by these deceptive maneuvers. we must stick to the compromise in the vote tomorrow and not allow it to be pierced through like swiss cheese. the commission proposal has been amended on a number of occasions. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. the commission has also proposed that the tax on trade in pension funds and sovereign debt be reduced for a transitional period of three years, and that there should be no fear of liquidity shortages. repro transactions with a maturity of up to three months are also taxed at a lower rate. if the european parliament gives the green light to a tax on speculation tomorrow, the finance ministers will also have to show the necessary backbone and ensure that they adopt a comprehensive tax on financial markets by the end of the year. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax on equity is a long overdue signal for greater equity in the financial markets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been fighting for this financial transaction tax for a long time and the commission has put forward a proposal based on enhanced cooperation. i'm sure that's not ideal. it is a council regulation, which means that some of the demands we are rightly making today must be accepted by the council. i would like to express some scepticism, for example, with regard to the delegated acts concerning the actual implementation. it will never be the case that the council agrees to parliament's participation in delegated acts where the act itself falls exclusively within its competence. in the light of all the compromises that have been reached - and i would like to thank mrs podimata and, in particular, our spokesman, mr othmar karas, for introducing the exceptions, the justified exceptions, the low tax rates, the transitional periods - it is now up to the commission, and above all the council, to implement parliament's demands. let me say that i am not only sceptical but i share the concerns that have been raised. the ideal solution is not, of course, a solution for 11 member states, or even for the whole union, but the real ideal solution must take place in the european union, including the united kingdom, and worldwide, of course, including the other major financial markets. that's the problem we can't solve. but you will have my support, despite the reservations that have been expressed, because we have decided on many exceptions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for having taken the initiative to give life to the commission's proposal in such a way that a practical toolkit is created. i would like to say this at the outset: madam lulling, this is not an electoral gag to be buried in germany on 22 september, but it is the conviction and a broad consensus in the german parliament and in many other parliaments to introduce a financial transaction tax, and this will survive 22 september. what's the matter? the aim is to ensure that the sector which has imposed heavy burdens on the taxpayer contributes to its own risks and, where intervention is necessary, contributes to the tax revenue accordingly. and secondly, it is about designing the whole thing in such a way that we do not burden the real economy with fees. i am therefore very grateful to the rapporteur, our shadow rapporteur and the other colleagues for having made good compromises in order to make the whole thing fit for the test and for as many countries as possible to join the system as soon as possible. our goal should be to have this financial transaction tax for all 27 states, not just for 11.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow and which we are discussing today concerns the fifth revision of the directive on the regulation of ucits. the commission has proposed a number of improvements to this existing directive, including better consumer protection in the deposit banking sector, rules on the remuneration of investment fund managers and also a more uniform sanctioning practice between the different member states in this area. these improvements are urgently needed. in the deposit banking sector in particular, we have seen what happened with the madoff scandal: investors lost large sums. the commission's proposal draws the necessary conclusions from this and it is gratifying that parliament, first in the economic committee and now in the plenary, is supporting the commission's position across the political groups. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the various groups for their support, because after the amendments they tabled, it was not a matter of course. there was very intense lobbying by some of the central banks in this area who did not want these rules to be so strict. the fact that we are working together to change the rules in the interests of investor protection is right! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a perfectly reasonable and consistent arrangement. these limits on bonus excesses are not only useful for banks, but for the entire financial industry. this is a culture of risk-taking that is completely unknown in the rest of the economy. many people would be happy to have just one extra month. it is really incomprehensible what is being done in some countries here, that 24 months of pay is not enough. no, i think it is a reasonable rule, which also has a measure, to say that bonuses cannot be higher than the fixed salary. i would be glad if the commission would propose a comprehensive regulation in this area. the british house of commons has now put forward new proposals. they're a little different. but i think that this whole culture of excessive pay should be tackled across sectors. the first point i want to make in my report is that the rules we have already decided on in the banking sector, which parliament has proudly enforced, should now also be applied in another large market. the second point which is in dispute is earningsrelated remuneration. the fact is that in more and more member states the payment of investment companies is now made dependent on the return of the respective fund. it's not a bad idea, but the way these earnings-related fees are calculated is often nothing more than a hand in the pockets of investors. my report does not seek to prohibit these requirements, nor does the economic committee, but it only seeks to ensure that in future the investment company can no longer be reached when the returns are high, but if they are poor, then these fees are waived and they are not charged. it's just a little trick. i therefore regret that the conservatives, liberals and right-wing conservatives have come together here to challenge these arrangements for bonuses and earnings-related compensation. i hope that this line will be reconsidered by tomorrow!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not ucits are a success story! these european investment funds, with a volume of eur 6 trillion, account for three quarters of all investments by retail investors in europe. the epp is about protecting these very small investors from clear remuneration principles to minimum penalties for breaking the law. we are in favour of strict liability for deposit banks, of stricter sanctions for management errors. in two areas, sven giegold has pointed out, there are differences of opinion: firstly, in the case of performance-related fees. these incentives balance the interests of retail investors and fund managers. there is no need to overturn a system, for example by a so-called symmetrical design. if fund managers achieve above-average value growth, they should share in the success. but if they fall short of the index, they are asked to compensate for the losses, in the worst case by their own financial resources - this is unacceptable. everyone knows that investing in mutual funds always involves risks, and sometimes factors over which you have little control. secondly, in the case of the bonus regulations for managers, it is proposed that the 1:1 limitation from the crd-iv directive, i.e. the same ratio between fixed and variable remuneration, should also be applied to ucits. the banking sector has different remuneration systems than the fund management sector. you have to distinguish between the two. it is quite sufficient to confine oneself to the general guidelines of esma. the epp group agrees with the text of the econ committee and sven giegold.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the commission for its support for the report. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the signals he has given. but i would like to make the two points of conflict clear once again. in the area of bonuses, we are simply faced with the question: do we want to break with a culture that is overly oriented towards short-term interests or not? i think it is necessary. it is not just a question of freshness, but also of the hope, which is driven by the short term, of receiving a bonus motivated by the need to improve performance. we have world-class performance in all sorts of areas, especially in germany, in industry. there are no bonuses of that kind. it works, though, basically. the financial industry needs to re-embed itself with the rest of the industry and what is possible and necessary there. it will not be the case that the bonuses are automatically converted 100% into fixed salaries. the other question seems to me even more relevant. i heard exactly what you said, colleague. but the thing about performance-based income and compensation is that it's unfairly designed. in germany, therefore, as the eu has already done in ireland, bafin has now established rules which can be circumvented by simply registering the funds in luxembourg or elsewhere and then selling them in germany via the european passport. the rules which we have in germany now for good reasons to prevent wrong designs are now being bypassed via luxembourg. and the amendments which have been tabled here will only result in the places where the weakest rules apply becoming the best places in europe for the application of these funds. that can't be in our best interest. mr brons has mentioned it: the level of pay in the united states is only half that in europe. why then do we not do something about the area where the grip on the pockets of investors is particularly deep? that's all i'm suggesting here. it is not a question of managers being held liable for their private assets, which is something that esma can do freely, and my report does not provide for that at all. if that's your concern, sir, i'd really like to invite you to come and have a threesome with me. i assure you. we'll make sure we get this thing straightened out. but the basic principle i am proposing, symmetry, should be supported by all those who are interested in stability and in the interests of consumers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the great amount of work she has put into this report, which makes a lot of things clear. over 440 billion euros of direct capital assistance, over 5 trillion euros of approved aid to the financial sector by the end of 2011, and some countries that were swept into the abyss by the banks. all this in the context of the fact that the failure of even one institution could entail incalculable risks for economies. and that's exactly the fear that some bankers play with. the case of anglo irish bank once again demonstrates the potential for blackmail that banks like this have. this has to stop. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the banks. what does that mean, exactly? banks whose business models are not sustainable or are too big to fail have no reason to exist in this form. to reduce the potential for extortion, the financial casino must be separated from the customer business; supervisory board members of banks must be held accountable for any misconduct; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. bank insolvencies must be feasible. but this also requires well-equipped resolution and deposit guarantee funds pre-financed by the banks. i would therefore appeal once again to the council, which is again absent, not to underestimate the importance of the deposit guarantee directive and to finally resume negotiations with us after a year and a half of blockade! because any delay will ultimately be at the expense of the taxpayers!
thank you very much, mr. cutaş! you were ten seconds behind the clock. your speech will be better understood in other languages if you give the interpreters some breathing room.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank each and every one of those who spoke and, of course, arlene mccarthy for having given rise to this good debate. mr lamberts, mrs matias, mr cutaş and, more recently, mr zemke, rightly pointed out the considerable risks that large banks can pose to our economies and societies. however, and unfortunately, risks can also materialize in banks that are smaller, not just the larger ones, in universal banks, as well as in specialized banks, hence the importance of presenting measures to deal with the causes of risk one by one - i do say one by one - and thus, as mr kelly said just now, to protect citizens and taxpayers better than in the past. i do not share syed kamall's analysis that we have not addressed - if i understand correctly - the main cause of the crisis or that we have not addressed the most important factors. there is no single measure, mr kamall, which would solve all the problems. the crisis was caused by a series of important factors which must be dealt with one by one and which we have dealt with, as mr kelly has just said: insufficient capital, liquidity problems, supervision, governance, prevention, risk taking, which is encouraged by excessive remuneration. the structural measure we are preparing, which will be informed by your report, mrs mccarthy, is one of those measures. i would also like to say, mrs wortmann-kool, that there is of course a link between all these reforms. that's why we need to calibrate them well and measure their impact. banks with better capital, better supervision, whose failures can be resolved. we must also ensure that the banks can continue or resume their work, that is to say, lending money to the economy, especially to smes, as mrs miranda has said, rather than engaging in speculative activities, as mr gauzès or mr morganti have just said. i am well aware, as i say to mr dorfmann, that many of these banks are regional banks, lending to smes in the territories. we are now working on our text. mr gauzès said that this text had added value because it would have the opportunity to create a european framework, rather than an addition or juxtaposition of national laws, and in this sense it would strengthen the internal market. this is also true of the text under discussion, which peter simon has mentioned and which he is dealing with, on deposit guarantees. i also want to tell mr pallone that we're going to calibrate all these measurements. i would like to thank mrs mccarthy again for her insight and report, which will help us to do our job well by october.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. following the outbreak of the global financial crisis, there were calls for a restructuring of banks. their operations should be distinguished between high-risk and customer-oriented, supposedly safe operations. this approach is not realistic, as there are risks in both business lines. we need only think of the spanish cajas whose real estate loans were existential. nevertheless, the separation of banking activities in the us (volcker) and the uk (vickers) is considered to be sensible. for the eu, the liikäinen committee has examined the value of a separate banking system. it's really about minimizing risk. banks need an adequate business model, sufficient equity and liquidity, risk-oriented governance and targeted financial incentives. the size of a bank can also be more important than its formal structure. the break-up of a large bank like bnp would create new units, each of which would be 'too big to fail'. in addition, the supervisor must emphasise its commitment to resolve institutions in difficulty consistently. drying out tax havens would also reduce risk appetite. the rapporteur's principled approach focuses on the protection of taxpayers and savers. the report overemphasises the formal separation of banks and fails to take into account that commercial customers expect services from a single source, which would be located in different units under the unbundled banking approach.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on budgetary control on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning investigations conducted by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and repealing regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 of the european parliament and of the council and council regulation (euratom) no 1074/1999 (17427/1/2012 - c7-0051/2013 - 2006/0084 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs ingeborg gräßle) (a7-0225/2013).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking about the olaf regulation in a difficult period for olaf, when the reputation of the fight against fraud is in tatters and we have a variety of internal problems, including management errors. and we have problems with the controller, the oversight committee. i would like to solve these problems. the first problem is the structure of the office, which was not adapted to the judicial systems of the member states from the outset. this has created and is creating many, many problems which have not been sufficiently solved to date, even by the reform. we have the problem of the internal constitution of the office. the current olaf regulation is all about the director-general. the director-general is - as provided for in the present regulation - omnipresent and omnipotent. this has been the case since 1999 and will continue to be the case. in a laborious process, we introduced checks and balances in parliament in 2008, more democratic structures that the director-general also supported at the time and which are supposed to protect the director-general. we have incorporated the judgments of the ecj, we have incorporated the examination of the legality of the methods of investigation and the rights of the parties to proceedings - also an ongoing problem for many years. olaf has created victims with its methods so far, unfortunately, and the fact that there will be more victims is very disturbing to me. the 2008 reform proposals of the parliament are based on a commission text which provided for an independent procedural examiner. our amendments have sought to ensure the checks and balances that existed in olaf and also the review of legality through the magistrates unit. then a new director-general came in and he killed those amendments which provided for checks and balances during the trilogue. the commission itself killed the procedural examiner. we are therefore faced with a structure which is more than ever geared to a single person, and which is also subject to his success or failure. this person is also making life as difficult as possible for the supervisory committee. in my capacity as rapporteur and with the permission of the bureau's intimate acquaintance, i have tabled a few amendments for a second reading. think carefully about whether you can refuse them. it could be very important! i would point out that these are not amendments aimed at one person, but i would point out that we have structural errors in the design of the office and that the revised text now reinforces rather than weakens these structural errors. i would reassure you that a second reading gives us the opportunity of mediation, which means that we can be ready by the end of the year. i have made eleven trilogies, and you have left me alone on ten of them, ladies and gentlemen. bart staes was in one of them. thank you, bart. nobody had any interest in helping me. even when i asked you to help me, no one helped me. i believe that the amendments are in the council's interest. i would therefore not go so far as to say that the council does not want to change anything. i appreciate the advice because they are actually reasonable and rational people, and i'm not afraid either. and the additional three months delay i think is acceptable. it's not about good or better or for or against a ceo. the point is that the reform text does not solve any of our problems. i would like to see these problems resolved, at least one of them, the question of the rule of law of the methods, and the other, the access of the monitoring committee to procedures which have been completed. the text also clarifies the previous revision on this point.
member of the commission. − mr president, you are discussing today the text for a revised legal basis for the european anti-fraud office, olaf. this text is the result of very thorough negotiations with the council that, all in all, went on for seven years. every word of this compromise text was carefully considered, negotiated and agreed by the three institutions during the trilogue in 2012. the commission is not saying that the final text is perfect but it is still a very good result, achieved after intense negotiations on all sides. let us not forget that this compromise will improve olaf’s work substantially. these improvements are essential, in particular for the persons concerned by an olaf investigation. under the new regulation they will benefit from significantly enhanced procedural rights. the revised legislation will also ensure various ways that olaf can work more effectively in protecting eu funds. this is obviously something of great significance for taxpayers across europe. in the commission’s view it is therefore indispensable to approve this text as it stands. this does not mean that we do not understand the concerns that many of you have voiced over these last few months. we do acknowledge that there is room to improve olaf’s legal framework further beyond this reform. however we are convinced that the smartest way to do so is with a two-step approach. as a first step we must secure what we have achieved so far in the negotiations with the council. we need to adopt the revised olaf regulation without any amendments. this would allow it to enter into force next month already, ensuring that important improvements can come quickly into force. as a second step we should then look at ways to improve olaf’s legal framework even further. the commission is thinking at this stage about two elements in particular, inspired by our forthcoming proposal for a european public prosecutor’s office. the first one would be to establish an independent controller of fundamental rights. that person would monitor the respect of fundamental rights by olaf in individual investigations. the second would focus on investigative measures of a particular intrusive nature. i am talking about searches of offices, in particular of members of the institutions, and the seizure of documents. the european public prosecutor will need specific authorisation for any such measure. therefore we believe that olaf’s investigative measures should also be subject to enhanced procedural requirements. today’s amendments focus quite a bit on the olaf supervisory committee. while this committee has a very important role, it is not the right body to cater for the two important functions i have just mentioned. the committee’s composition and its institutional setting were never intended as a basis for comprehensive control of individual olaf investigations. its members carry out this work on top of their full-time jobs. furthermore, they are not subject to any specific legal responsibilities and liabilities that would make them suitable for this role. i believe the cooperation between olaf and the supervisory committee needs to be based on clear and mutually agreed working arrangements. as you know, i am committed to facilitating this process in a neutral and objective manner. our common goal should be to ensure that olaf works effectively to protect the eu’s financial interests within the legal framework set by the legislator. at the same time, we need to think about new alternatives such as those i have described to you. the commission is ready to advance this work as a top priority, always in close collaboration with parliament. the substantial progress achieved in the discussions over the last few years in improving olaf’s regulatory framework, its efficiency and the protection of fundamental rights should be turned into law without further delay. i therefore hope that you will support the text approved by three institutions and agree to pursue our constructive cooperation in order to address the remaining points in the appropriate context.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have to decide tomorrow whether we agree with the outcome of the trilogue on the reform of the olaf regulation or not. to put it plainly, it is i! we have made progress where it is needed. key terms are clearly defined. the access of olaf to data files is regulated, there are percentage guarantees and better legal protection for the accused, the strengthening of the information rights of the olaf monitoring committee is ensured, and more detailed provisions are laid down for the tasks of the director-general: it must ensure internal control procedures of the procedure and a review of legality and set up a framework for olaf's investigations. all of this is really significant progress. i would like to thank the rapporteur, inge gräßle, and our shadow rapporteur, zigmantas balčytis. amendments to this effect are now on the table. i am not saying that these amendments are unjustified or that they are factually incorrect. how could i? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but with all our sympathy, we cannot ignore the risks involved in the further procedure. the commission is right to want to bring this new olaf regulation into force after seven years and not to prolong the procedure. the irish presidency has informed me that there is no willingness in the relevant council working party to reopen this dossier. i follow the rapporteur's assessment, not today's, but the one she gave us in a letter of 2 october 2012. i quote: if we do not accept the outcome of the negotiations, the council will withdraw from its mandate of june 2011. a real step backwards, which threatens all the improvements that have been achieved with great effort. that's right! so i believe that we should acknowledge the progress and that we should safeguard it. the s&d group will therefore have to reject the amendments; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. friends, romans, countrymen, lend me your ears! like shakespeare's play, we are at a turning point. the question now is whether or not we provide olaf with a functioning monitoring committee. six months ago, in october last year, i would have agreed with the rapporteur. it took the council and parliament six years to reach a compromise. but in the last six months the institutions, the commission, olaf and the monitoring committee have put on a bizarre spectacle. i cannot imagine an olaf without a functioning monitoring committee. but there were attempts to influence: the director of olaf spoke to members of the house. i have heard that mr barroso has spoken to members of this house. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i cannot imagine reforming olaf without strengthening the supervisory committee. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank you very much, mr theurer. for the advanced shakespeare connoisseur, one is tempted to add: though this be madness, yet there is method int.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is clear that both this house and the commission share the same goal as regards the reform of olaf. we both aim to improve the olaf legal framework to ensure full respect of fundamental rights, effective follow-up by national authorities and a more efficient working of the office, including adequate systematic monitoring by its supervisory committee. in answer to mr theurer: yes, i am in favour of a strong supervisory committee. however, as already set out in my introduction, i am convinced that a two-step approach is appropriate and even needed on this file. as a first step, we must secure this substantial improvement of the olaf legal framework, which we have achieved so far in the negotiations with the council and for which your rapporteur has worked very hard. as a second step the commission is committed to looking at ways to further improve olaf’s legal framework as soon as the new regulation enters into force. this evaluation should be inspired by the proposal on the european public prosecutor that the commission will adopt soon. it will include consultations with parliament and the council in the context of the inter-institutional exchange of views. i hope that parliament will be able to support that approach, which is in the interests of both the persons concerned and the european taxpayers. otherwise we run the risk that, instead of having immediate adoption of the regulation and significant improvements in the regulatory framework of olaf, we will continue working on the reform for a period that may last not seven years but even ten or twelve years. that is the risk we are facing now.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you for your contributions. i would point out, mr president, that if we vote on these amendments now, the council will have three months to deal with them. if he agrees, no problem! if he does not agree, a new conciliation procedure will be held. so we're gonna sit down and figure out what we're gonna do. then we can convince the council with difficulty. i'm guessing so. i would like to thank two people very warmly, mr georg ginsberg of the danish presidency and mrs dorota kwiecińska of the polish presidency. i think we should not be so afraid of the council. the council too has an interest in improving the fight against fraud, although it is always difficult to convince it of this. some of this reminds me of realsatire: we have exactly the same situation as before the 2008 vote, when we made our report. i have had to listen to the commission say all sorts of things, how impossible is what i have put on the table! it was terrible. the commission then froze the whole dossier for two and a half years and simply did not pursue it any further because it considered it impossible. and now, all of a sudden, she doesn't think it's possible to go any further with this story. we are doing well to actually solve the problems we have been seeing and hearing about for the last two years. that's why you're so good, let's try it and, jan, it's not like the whole thing's going to go to waste! we still have our thumbs on it and we're in the palm of our hands. i would be glad if the colleagues would also take part in the relevant conciliation talks. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. mr šemeta, the two-step approach: in 2006, the commission proposed an independent process reviewer. they took him back in 2011. you're going to propose him again in 2014? this is a serious story! that means the hour is now, and now we must make sure that history is one that we can live with!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2011 on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud (com (2012) 0408 - 2012/2285 (ini)) (a7-0197/2013) and the report by mr andrea češková, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the integrated internal control framework (2012/2291 (ini)) (a7-0189/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall be discussing two other related reports this evening: the report by derek vaughan draws political conclusions from the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests which the commission is presenting to us. the report by mrs češková makes suggestions on how we should proceed with the integrated control framework of the european commission. i am pleased to see that mrs češková has reached a broad consensus on her observations. compared with some of the contributions i have heard from the ecr group on the subject of error rates and the protection of financial interests, this is a very constructive occasion. i take the liberty of breaking up this unity a little. the point on which i have tabled other amendments is how we intend to deal with the concept of the declaration of reliability in the future. we and mrs češková in her report note that we are not really getting anywhere near reducing the error rate without the member states playing a decisive role in this. we are looking with some concern to the european court of auditors, which, by simply changing its error-correction methodology, may well have a not actual but artificially increased error rate next year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have taken up the courageous statement made at the hearing to which mrs češková referred. let's just go over this whole concept of the declaration of trust. in my opinion, it doesn't help us. we must continue the discussion on this. there are many budgets in the member states of the european union which are less well controlled than the budget of the european union. this declaration of reliability is a means of inviting polemics, above all, from eurosceptics. i'm a great friend of albert camus, who said that you have to imagine sisyphus as a happy man. but politically, it doesn't work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i wanted to thank you for taking up a very old subject of budgetary control, namely the integrated internal control framework. commissioner, i do not know how we will ever make progress on this subject, beyond error rates and das debates. if we watch the new programs, we're headed for a major disaster. this 'make everything new every seven years' means that we will have major control problems and also major problems of acceptance on the ground by the beneficiaries, who will have to adjust to everything. i very much regret this and would like to say that it would probably also be the greatest contribution to fraud prevention if we could assume a stable legislation for more than seven years, so that both the beneficiaries and the member states' administrations are allowed to learn from the mistakes and weaknesses of the legislation so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think one of the biggest problems is that we're doing everything fundamentally new. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can therefore only say that olaf, like everyone else, is facing a huge challenge, namely that all the changed legislation now has to be rethought, because you can only do wrong what is prescribed. i'm already worried when i see that we're going to have efficiency problems, and i would like to say that one of our achilles' heels is still that we don't have enough staff for these stories.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs češková, for her report on the integrated control framework. it is not without a certain political schizophrenia when heads of state and government like prime minister cameron stand up and demand better use of eu funds, but fail to mention that 80% of the budget is managed in the member states. we must of course ensure that the member states also take responsibility for the management of eu funds and provide the commission with concrete and reliable data. the reliability check is not the right tool. the hearings in the committee on budgetary control have shown that. we must move towards a budget that is performance-oriented, a performance-oriented eu budget. i can only support the rapporteur's proposal. we ask you, commissioner, to set up a working group of representatives of the commission, parliament, the council and the european court of auditors to implement this approach of a performance-based eu budget so that we can move towards a budget that is performance-oriented.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would conclude by pointing out that both the commission and olaf are continuing their efforts to make the fight against fraud more effective. this month even, the commission intends to table its proposal for the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. it will also publish its report on the protection of the eu’s financial interests for the year 2012. on olaf’s side, its most recent annual report shows some significant progress in different areas: more investigations have been opened, the average time needed to carry out the initial assessment of a case has been reduced, and so has the average duration of the investigations. i hope that olaf will be able to continue along this path, including own-initiative investigations as requested by mr skylakakis. i tend to disagree regarding the comments by mr deutsch on thresholds used in olaf investigations. actually, it is investigative policy priorities which are the basis for olaf investigations and there is no specific threshold for the investigations. as i explained also in the committee on budgetary control, most of the investigations olaf carries out are well below eur 1 million and that explains that investigative activity is based on several criteria and not on the one specific criterion. regarding mrs češková’s report, the commission will follow up on the recommendations made in the report on the integrated internal control framework. in particular, it will start soon the work needed to set up the working group with a view to establishing a performance-based budget. as regards the das and the annual error rate, i consider they have to be put into perspective with multiannual preventive and corrective measures implemented to protect the eu budget. finally, as regards new programmes and ms gräßle’s comments: i think that it is really important that in the final stage of the adoption of the programmes, both legislative authorities follow the simplification path in this programme. this is extremely important in order to reduce the level of error in the future. i am also glad to say that across the board, horizontally, we were able to introduce the anti-fraud clause in the new legislative programme, which i believe will help olaf work much more effectively in the fight against fraud during the next multiannual financial framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health (com (2011) 0866 - c7-0488/2011 - 2011/0421 (cod)) (a7-0337/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all members for their interventions. i am very glad to hear that we share similar views on the importance of this decision for improving health security in the european union. i trust that the plenary vote will confirm that we are working closely together to ensure that citizens across europe are protected from a wide range of health threats. our agreement is important so that citizens in europe can feel safer in the confidence that, from now onwards, serious cross-border threats can be addressed in a consistent manner at european union level. our agreement is important so that member states can prepare for and tackle possible future crises together in a fully coordinated manner. regarding the concrete question on coronavirus, since the first alert was posted through an early warning and response system by the united kingdom on 23 september 2012, the commission has been constantly monitoring the situation in close cooperation with the world health organization, the european centre for disease prevention and control and the partners of the global health security initiative. upon request from the commission, the ecdc has provided four risk assessments and several situation reports. finally, let me once again thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur mr pargneaux, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their efforts and commitment towards reaching agreement with the council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
i have a proposal to change the agenda. in accordance with rule 140 (2) and in consultation with the political groups, i propose that the agenda be amended as follows: the debate on the situation of civil society in egypt, scheduled for thursday afternoon, pursuant to rule 122, should be removed from the agenda. this follows the house's decision on monday, after a debate on the situation in egypt was put on the agenda this afternoon. is there any objection to that?
mr swoboda, if i have understood you correctly, the socialist group would like to keep this item on the agenda as a preventive measure. just a moment, please. i shall try to clarify this with the relevant departments here, with my modest knowledge of the rules of procedure. so, we have this afternoon's debate on the state of civil society in egypt. our rules of procedure say we cannot have two debates on the same subject in one week. that is why i propose that we discuss on thursday afternoon the "risks in development in egypt". this is something different from the situation of civil society. does anyone object to our discussing the risks of developments in egypt, perhaps in the light of the debate in the european parliament today? that's not the case. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of activities of the lithuanian presidency (2012/2800 ((rsp)). i would like to congratulate the president of the republic of lithuania, labas rytas ponia prezidente, and welcome mrs grybauskaitė to the house.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. before i give the floor to the president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very important duty to perform. there's a colleague of ours who's celebrating his birthday today. he is still a young man, and i congratulate him on behalf of the whole house. it is our former president jerzy buzek who is celebrating his birthday today. i'm very happy for you. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not madam president, i naturally welcome the fact that, under your presidency, another eastern european country is taking over the moderation of the european union for six months and is trying to address the important issues, and a whole series of them have been listed today by you and by the colleagues who have spoken for parliament so far. let me make this very specific. the press has given you the title of "iron lady" for, among other things, implementing massive budget cuts; the eu has also made progress in the area of the environment. i would therefore like to know how you intend to approach the presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we had a presidency a year ago with the motto of being an honest broker between the institutions, between the european parliament, the council and the commission. we have just seen the end of a presidency that was all about results. you yourself have stated in various places that you are concerned with commitment and results. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you know that you are also facing the consequences of the austerity policy which has been pursued massively by the european union. will you make an attempt to address the actual results of the austerity policy and also to help to bring about a rethinking in the council? how will you tackle the task which the union and, above all, the council have so far failed to do, namely to ensure that the banking union has a genuine social dimension, which is what it is supposed to be? how do you - particularly as a former commissioner for finance with a background in the european union budget - deal with the fact that we are now dealing with an mff which will come to parliament in september as a regulation and which we hope will make possible further improvements? what is your position on the unity of the mfr, on the fact that entire complexes are outside the mfr and are therefore not covered? how do you assess the flexibility achieved if at the same time it is not 100% clear what will happen to the deficits in 2013? if they are moved to the next mfr, what is actually paid? where does the money come from? where are they? where are they? how do you assess the preparation and the holding of the youth unemployment summit in berlin, which in my view - and this is a view i share with many colleagues - is being used by chancellor merkel as a campaign theme, and where i expect people to say, yes, we support a front-loading in the first two years and that 6 billion euros will be provided, 8 billion within seven years. what happens when the election is over? then mrs merkel drops the subject again because she is no longer interested in it. will you really be putting youth unemployment on your agenda at this time? and you will also say: that is the job of the presidency. we're the ones doing this, not someone in the middle of a campaign. how do you spend your time? and perhaps i should add that you spoke earlier about human rights and democracy. we heard mr orbán yesterday. i think that was an embarrassing performance by him. how will you influence it? we have the discussion about the nsa, the us wiretapping scandal, with political overtones. member states are already denying heads of state overflight rights just because they have just arrived from moscow and are told that they have snowden on board. i think this is a scandal! what are you gonna do? will you negotiate with the united states? what will happen in the next few months? i think this is a scandal, this is a problem, and we are expecting very concrete answers! this is unacceptable!
mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am increasingly disturbed by the fact that things are being brought into these debates that have nothing to do with the debate. what mr gollnisch has said has nothing to do with the subject. but i do not think that domestic issues in lithuania should be discussed here, but rather the question of how european policy will be shaped in the next six months. i want to tell you that i have high hopes for this presidency, because it is the presidency of a small, new country, which is moving forward with momentum, a country which has shown that it can overcome difficulties on its own, which has quickly emerged from economic crises, which has overcome financial and economic crises and is moving forward, and from which we can learn a little. this is a country that does not prescribe anything to others, but shows how it can be done. the question of how to move forward with growth in europe depends on very concrete projects and measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is more than ever the demand for more money or other demands that bring this about. how can initiatives in the member states be supported and encouraged in a concrete way? how can activities to bring young people into work be coordinated in a concrete way? how can you use the money that's there? it is no use asking for new sums all the time, but something must be done, something must happen, something must be done, something must be done! i hope a great deal from this conference and i hope a great deal from this lithuanian presidency. i am very grateful to you, madam president, for having also addressed energy policy very clearly, not in the sense of 'another goal and another goal' but in the sense of 'how are we going to achieve this with the internal market?' what are we actually doing to build networks, to create connections? what is the situation with the third package of measures for the internal market? has it been decided? has it been implemented in other countries? is anyone actually controlling this? let's have a look at that. it is not enough to pass new laws. it's about doing, about realizing. the networks must be built to ensure security of supply. i would like to thank you very much for your very concrete approach.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i'm opening the second ballot. if necessary, the third ballot shall be held immediately afterwards. (the sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) i am informing you that the nominations of mr brenninkmeijer and mr jäger have been withdrawn. the remaining candidates are therefore ms ria oomen-ruijten, ms emily o'reilly, ms dagmar roth-behrendt and mr francesco speroni. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) since no one has achieved the legal majority, the third round of voting will now take place. the rules of procedure now provide for a third round of voting to be held by drawing lots between the two candidates who have won the first two places in the second round. this is mrs ohmen-ruijten and mrs o'reilly, as far as i can tell.
chair of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, several members have drawn my attention to the fact that they received written information from the director-general of olaf concerning the legislation decision. this information was not provided to the committee on budgetary control and to its chair. this is not acceptable treatment of parliament as an official eu institution, and i would like to call the president to inquire further into this situation.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to ask to postpone the final vote and refer the matter back to committee in order to start negotiations with the council as soon as the council has done its part of the job and made up its mind.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would also like to ask, as in the previous request, pursuant to rule 57 (2) of the rules of procedure, that we now postpone the final vote on the legislative resolution and that negotiations with the council can begin.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to express my dismay at the absence of a debate on the important subject of latvia's accession to the euro area on the agenda this week. (applause from the centre) a clear vote in committee cannot mean that such an important issue is simply dropped from the table. i am really appalled that the conference of presidents has rejected a request from our group to hold a debate here. the question of the rationale for this important issue certainly needs to be asked. i think there are far less important items on the agenda of our house this week. it is therefore regrettable that the accession of a country like latvia to the euro is no longer of any significance here. it is really important to make it clear once again that such a move towards the euro is to be welcomed and, above all, that greater attention should be paid to latvia's efforts in recent years. i would like to conclude by saying that i am delighted that latvia will then hopefully join the eurozone on 1 january 2014. i thought this was something that needed to be said. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the irish presidency has done a very good job together with the european parliament. we have reached an agreement. it is simply important for me to see not only the internal dimension but also the external dimension. the governance of the european union also means, and above all, having a common budget for the next seven years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was no more and no less. that is why i was able to agree to this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr groote on the withdrawal of co2 certificates from the market. with the trading of pollution rights, we have established a market economy system which is supposed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the commission now considers that the market is not functioning and that the prices for the allowances are too low. a view i do not share. of course, there are differing views on the causes and effects of low prices. i am firmly convinced, however, that we should not interfere with this system just because we do not like the outcome. if the commission considers that emissions trading is not working, then fundamental changes should be considered. i would like to point out that the real objective of reducing co2 emissions will be achieved. it was never the task of the emissions trading system to get a fixed price for the allowances.
blue-card question. – i have three questions. firstly, when are you going to follow the court decision and re-establish the frequencies for the ert? secondly, where are your thanks to the thousands of ert staff who have been working in the ert buildings for several weeks now under very strenuous conditions to create programmes day and night? there are thousands of workers; they are the cleaning women as well as the technicians; they are the singers, the musicians and the journalists. thirdly, is not this strong activity in the ert buildings right now the proof that you have a good foundation for the necessary reform of the ert?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we need not argue at all here about the need for reform in the greek public service broadcasting. the task agreed with the troika of reducing the greek state apparatus by several thousand posts was neither new nor particularly surprising at the time of ert's closure. what is shocking, however, is that samaras chose the supposedly easier path, and in a nutshell, shut down and shut down the public broadcaster. in my view, this was undemocratic, uneconomic and ill-considered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. and i think it is absurd that those who have helped to run this cousin economy right here in the ert are now complaining about it. the cost of unused rights, contractual obligations and unnecessary preparations for broadcasting is estimated at about eur 300 million. i think the money could have been put to better use. and it was also ill-advised, because it would have almost brought down the governing majority and now there is only a governing majority, which is now very, very small indeed. that does not make the situation in greece any easier. i do not think it is right to blame brussels, so to speak. if the troika had asked for this, it would have been breaking the law, because it would have been in breach of the amsterdam protocol. our solidarity must extend to the ert staff who are struggling to keep the station running. we need reforms, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now, and we need to start reforms now. anything else is unacceptable!
i have to say, madam president, i have made it clear in the past weeks that i consider the decision and the action of the greek government to be absolutely wrong. the closure of the ert, which is clearly in need of reform, by means of an emergency regulation without warning, without discussion, without public debate was inappropriate and not in accordance with the rule of law, as the greek court has found it must be said. and this after the politicians themselves - it has already been said - have brought about the present state of affairs through years of clientelism and nepotism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the closure does not provide any immediate relief to the state budget. the ert is financed, as cohn-bendit has already said, essentially by a direct levy on the citizens' electricity tax. so it is nonsense to accuse the commission now of being to blame for the government's doing this. this is bullshit! the responsibility lies with greece. as far as the necessary modernisation is concerned, i can only strongly recommend that the european broadcasting union be involved. the ebu has the experience, the expertise, the competence and it can help. and i very much welcome the fact that the greek secretary of state responsible has now apparently invited the ebu to a first exchange. this is a real signal, an important signal. but, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with you that the court's decision must be implemented. and this parliament has rightly repeatedly stressed the importance of public service broadcasting for democratic society in europe. there is no one-size-fits-all model, that's not true in this area. but there are some conditions: editorial independence, transparency and clear rules on funding. i therefore believe that the member states have the right and the duty to establish a genuine public service broadcasting system instead of a state or governmental one. i hope greece will do that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr stadler, we should be talking about greece and this case and not comparing apples to pears. we talked about hungary yesterday and we voted today. that's all for today. maybe not tomorrow, but today.
madam president, the black on the ert screens was the last act of the drama in greece of mourning. the decision on black on ert was the greek government's. the black on ert, however, reveals the disastrous consequences of the austerity policy implemented by the troika. it's the black of miscalculations and failed programs. it is the black that covers the lives of millions of greeks living below the poverty line. it's the black of the unemployed. it is the black of half a million young greeks who have degrees but no jobs. it's the black of the families mourning the victims of suicides, which have doubled in the country amid the crisis. it is the blackness of the great mourning experienced by the greek people. it's the black that, behind the cold numbers, measures human suffering. no more black! it's time to change politics to change color. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. thank you for asking. mr. samaras has never been right. we heard a lot of speeches today and we heard a lot of shots fired by a lot of politicians. i would like to say that this policy of the troika is based on wrong multiplication, on a wrong programme, as the imf tells us, and it must end. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to thank the president of intergroups-media. i'm the vice president, and i have to say that what counts above all is free speech, is a free press. this must be respected in all the member states of the european union and in greece.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, this debate has very clearly demonstrated how complex and sensitive the issue we are dealing with is. therefore i would just like to insist again that the commission has not called for the closure of any particular entity in the context of the second economic adjustment programme for greece. the reform of the greek public administration is a key element of the programme, with a very clear focus on efficiency and effectiveness. this involves not only closures and dismissals, but also hiring, training, promotion and careers. but the specific decision on how to rationalise the public administration rests with the greek government. the commission understands the difficult situation of the ert staff, and expects that the announced dismissals will be carried out in full accordance with the applicable legal framework and of course in full compliance with the court’s ruling. we are also convinced that the ebu advice and the direct responsibility of the deputy minister should also help the process. we also agree with honourable members on the importance of public broadcasting. the greek authorities have announced that a new national broadcaster will be launched soon and this is positive news. the new entity has to be efficient and sustainable, but it also has to guarantee media pluralism. let me make one more general remark about the situation in greece, because many honourable members referred to the current developments. the efforts of the authorities and the citizens of greece over the past three years have been enormous, as were the challenges facing the country. after a difficult 2012, when ultimately greece gave a strong demonstration of its commitment to stay in the euro area, the conditions are gradually coming into place for a return of confidence. the situation is much better now than it was a year ago. according to our spring forecast the recovery is expected to start by the turn of the year. government bond spreads have fallen markedly in recent months and the june economic sentiment indicators stayed broadly at their may level when they showed sentiment up 16.5 points in one year to a five-year high. investors are showing renewed interest, also attracted by the significant improvement in the ease of doing business over the last year. prices have started falling in recent months and inflation is well below the euro area average. this, together with an improved wage flexibility, is helping to restore the competitiveness of the greek economy and the current account balance is clearly improving as well. while, as i said, the situation is much more encouraging than a year ago, it is also very essential to keep the reform momentum. there is clearly no room for complacency, and therefore we very much look forward to the positive conclusion of the ongoing review mission, which would further support this confidence. several honourable members referred in their comments to the troika, so let me just recall that the decision to create the current model of the three institutions – the commission, the ecb and the imf – called the troika, was taken by the euro area member states in the winter and spring of 2010. many member states insisted on having the imf on board and we are working on the basis of this mandate as regards the current eu-imf programmes. it must be stressed that the decision on the adjustment programmes is not being taken by the troika, nor the commission, but unanimously by the euro area member states.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i have taken good note of the range of views expressed in this afternoon’s debate. as i said at the outset, it would not be appropriate for me as a representative of the council to respond to the various points that have been made in the course of the debate but what i can say is that we all have an interest in robust and free media. however, decisions on the future organisation of the greek broadcasting company are entirely a matter for the greek government, which is answerable to its electorate, and the council has no role, nor does it have the right to express a view on the matter. nonetheless, i have listened attentively to the views expressed this afternoon and have taken good note of the various opinions. i will make sure your opinions are brought to the attention of my colleagues in the council.
i have to say, madam president, i signed up earlier. i think it is inappropriate that there is a colleague from this side who has called the troika gangsters. i beg you to rebuke this!
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, over recent weeks we have been confronted with a number of increasingly worrying leaks, media reports and allegations related to us surveillance programmes. most recently very serious allegations have been made concerning us spying activities against the eu institutions. you will have seen that the commission, president van rompuy and several member states have rightly asked the us government for clarification. the european external action service and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in person have also been in contact with the us authorities, both in washington dc and in brussels, to check the accuracy of the information released over the weekend. while these allegations are clearly a matter of concern, it would not be appropriate for me to speculate or make any further comment until we have a response from the us authorities and until such time as we are able to determine the facts with certainty. for the moment we do not have the information to hand. let me, however, be very clear on the principle. like all of you, the presidency would be extremely concerned at any spying activities by foreign nations against the european union, whether that concerns eu institutions or member state governments. the earlier disclosure of information about the surveillance programmes operated by the us national security agency has understandably raised a number of complex questions and serious concerns about the effects on eu citizens. although at the moment we have only very limited information about these programmes, it is already clear that they have a direct impact on eu citizens’ personal data. the union attaches particular importance to personal privacy and this is an important element in our cooperation with third countries. however, data collection programmes are operated for intelligence purposes: they are intended to protect us citizens in the first place but also others, including europeans. within the eu a balance between these two interests is ensured through legislation, and its implementation is monitored by independent courts. although we have very little information about the us programmes, it was originally explained that they are based on us legislation and are monitored by independent courts which are known as the fisa courts, being based on the foreign intelligence surveillance act. it would not be appropriate for the council at the moment to comment further on the programmes themselves on the basis of such limited information. there are already agreements with the us which provide a legal framework for the transfer of personal data on eu citizens to the us enforcement authorities. the aim of the agreements is to assist these authorities in law enforcement and for the purpose of countering terrorism. the 2010 terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) agreement and the 2011 passenger name records (pnr) agreement were signed by the council and approved by this house. they include a number of robust data protection safeguards. however, this particular case does not seem to involve the transfer of personal data to the us, since the data is already on us territory. this means that, under the current terms of the negotiating mandate which the commission received from the council in december 2010, it will not fall within the scope of the future eu-us data protection agreement. as regards internal eu rules, in january 2012 the commission put forward an ambitious data protection package which comprises both a general data protection regulation and a proposal for a directive on data protection in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. these proposals seek to improve data protection standards within the eu, and the presidency is committed to work to the same end. the proposals cover instances where data is transferred to third countries, but the particular case at hand does not seem to involve data transfer within the meaning of the proposals. in the context of the future general data protection regulation, there are proposals to extend the scope of eu data protection rules to cover personal data of eu citizens, regardless of where the data is located. there will obviously need to be a detailed discussion on this. as a result, it is unlikely that the eu legislation we have on the table now would be able to address the issue of the personal data of eu citizens stored outside the eu and accessed by intelligence services. i know that there has been talk in this house of introducing a so-called anti-fisa clause into this regulation. this would require an eu court to approve any us court order aimed at obtaining intelligence. we will need to assess this option during the legislative process but again it is doubtful whether this proposal can provide an adequate response, given that the data concerned is located outside the eu. the reason why i have looked at the range of options is because i do not want us to create the impression that this issue can be addressed easily through eu legislation. we are dealing here with intelligence gathering by a foreign nation. in this case it happens to be our most important strategic partner and ally, but that does not mean that we should remain silent. should it be confirmed that any spying activities have taken place on eu territory or against eu interests, we should condemn them in strong terms. more generally, we can and should raise any questions which we consider to affect our citizens’ privacy. however, this must happen through dialogue. in raising privacy issues we have also to remember that all nations, in both the us and the member states of the eu, have a primary duty towards their citizens to do everything under the law to protect their lives. inevitably, the protection of our citizens against acts of terrorism and other threats will, if it is to be effective, require the collection and storage of personal data. our challenge is to ensure that we strike a proper balance, based on applicable legal standards, between the need to protect and the right to privacy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the news over the past weeks and days has been deeply disturbing. revelations, claims and counterclaims have been made at a dizzying speed. this debate is a useful opportunity to explain the different strands of the issue and to make sense of what the eu can do to address this situation so as to give an answer to our citizens. i believe that we should distinguish between two aspects to the problem. the first concerns international diplomatic relations and the second the rights of eu citizens. as regards the first matter, that of the alleged spying on eu and eu member states’ diplomatic premises, the commission has raised its serious concerns with the us. yesterday, the president made a statement to this house in the context of the debate on the european council conclusions. the issue was also discussed by vice-president ashton directly with secretary kerry. it is a matter of concern, because it throws a shadow on the mutual trust which is indispensable in relations between partners and allies. and it is clear that, for the negotiations on the trade agreements with the eu to succeed, there needs to be confidence, there needs to be transparency and there needs to be clarity among the negotiating partners. this of course excludes spying on eu institutions. the second issue, related to the rights of eu citizens, has already been debated in this house one month ago and i am happy to update you on the latest developments. in relation to the revelations on the prism programme and the verizon case, i asked a series of questions in a letter to my us counterpart, attorney-general eric holder, on 10 june. i also spoke directly with the attorney-general in dublin on 14 june. i raised our concerns regarding the impact of verizon and prism on the fundamental rights of eu citizens. i asked for clarifications on the differing levels of protection that apply to us and eu citizens. i asked about the conflict companies can find themselves in when they are faced with competing obligations under us and eu law. some explanations, for which i am awaiting written confirmation, were given but not all questions have been answered so far. this is why, after the ministerial meeting, i wrote again, together with my colleague cecilia malmström, to our us counterparts asking for answers, in particular on the volume of data collected, the scope of the programmes and the judicial oversight for europeans. at the ministerial meeting in dublin on 14 june, we agreed with the us to set up a transatlantic group of experts in order to establish the facts surrounding these programmes. only then can the commission assess the programmes with regard to the data protection of eu citizens. yesterday attorney-general eric holder committed, in a letter to me, to setting up this expert group and we also spoke on the phone during the night and agreed that the group will have its first meeting already this month and a second one in washington in september. the commission will then report on the findings of the group to parliament and to the council. at the eu-us ministerial meeting, i also called once again for the conclusion of the negotiations on an eu-us umbrella agreement on data transfer for law enforcement purposes – an agreement that would guarantee equal treatment of eu and us citizens when their data is processed for law enforcement purposes. i urged my us counterpart to ensure real progress in negotiations which started at the end of 2010. in response to media reports about the uk tempora programme, i have addressed a letter to foreign secretary william hague and asked him to clarify the scope of the programme, its proportionality and the extent of judicial oversight that applies. the message is clear: the fact that the programmes are said to be related to national security does not mean that anything goes. a balance needs to be struck between the policy objectives pursued and the impact on fundamental rights, in particular the right to privacy. this is a question of proportionality, which has, by the way, already been clarified in court decisions of the european court of justice. privacy is a fundamental right and, as such, is not negotiable. as many of you said in our last debate in june, programmes such as prism and tempora are a wake-up call for all of us; a wake-up call to advance on our data protection reforms for both the private and the public sector, because a strong framework for data protection is neither a constraint nor a luxury. it is a necessity. it will help reverse the trend of falling trust in the way in which data is handled by companies to which it is entrusted. that is why our proposed reform is an important part of the answer to the problems and to the questions. it will guarantee the current high level of data protection in the eu by updating citizens’ rights, guaranteeing that they know when their privacy has been violated, which is not the case today, and making sure that, when their consent is required, this consent is real, which is also not the case today. various elements of the reform are of particular relevance. it will clarify the territorial application of the law, including all companies operating in the eu. it will have a broad definition of personal data and will clarify the regime for international transfers. it will impose obligations and responsibilities on processors as well as controllers of data. i am personally convinced that only a strong data protection regime can build trust both for citizens and for businesses, and contribute to stability and growth in the digital economy. trust is also the basis for eu-us cooperation in the field of law enforcement. as many of you said in june, proceeding on a solid piece of legislation has become urgent. any delay in the data protection reform plays into the hands of those who do not share the objective of a high level of data protection. and i say to you, meps, and to the political groups that the whole world is watching us on this matter. the debate on prism and similar programmes only reinforces the fact that many expect europe to set a gold standard for data protection. i hope that the decisions, both in parliament and in the council, will be taken swiftly so that the negotiations between the two institutions on data protection can start without delay.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. friendships are made in times of crisis, and we are indeed in a crisis with the united states. if the allegations in this room are true, then the behaviour of our american friends is unacceptable. we do not listen to our friends, and we do not spy on the citizens of friendly countries en masse. i was also disappointed by the statement by the american president that he classifies citizens or consumers as first or second class. the americans are protected, the europeans are not protected. this is unacceptable. trust is shaken. but on the other hand, i would also like to say that we still have common interests. one of europe's great interests is growth and jobs. and that is why we in the epp group believe that the free trade agreement should be concluded anyway. we should have a discussion to move forward on this issue. the question the citizens are asking is, can you protect us? can you do something for us? and i want to expressly support our vice-president reding today. the battle is being fought on the field of data protection. the council must respond with commitment and, frankly, we must also make sure that we move the dossier forward and do not postpone the vote in the libe committee every time. it is up to us to enforce the principles that we hold dear. we should use it. i would also like to express on behalf of the epp group that we as a group are in favour of data exchange in principle, but it must be carried out on the basis of the rule of law and it must be decided in a transparent manner. the incidents are a wake-up call, as the commissioner said, for the european union. we must not be naive, we must strengthen our own capacities and we must become more independent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner reding, dear council, dear colleagues, dear audience, dear listening intelligence services: yes, perhaps you, the nsa or british intelligence, can explain to our governments on both sides of the atlantic that mass surveillance of communication and the breach of fundamental rights and principles is not at all welcome to the people out there. for those people out there this house, the european parliament, is carrying the hopes of restoring the rule of law and the respect of fundamental rights. because today, in a digitalised and globalised world, the protection of those values is strongly linked to information technology, and so the right to privacy and data protection is essential. major civil society groups from around the world, especially in europe, in the us and in latin america, have called on the european parliament to strengthen the protection of personal data and to put pressure on other states to agree on binding high standards. this is the moment to act. i agree with mr weber. we need to accelerate the negotiations on a strong eu data protection regulation and directive and we need to demand from our partners in the us to agree on those standards. we need to make sure that the massive breach of fundamental rights by the usa, but especially also by our own member states’ own authorities, has to stop immediately. as greens we welcome that the other groups have agreed to our request for an inquiry into those scandalous surveillance measures, but we do not think it is appropriate and responsible that you allow the negotiations on a transatlantic trade agreement to start without any assurance from the united states that they will stop spying on our citizens and institutions. first, we need standards, then we cooperate.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not yes, it is true! millions of citizens are being monitored around the clock, eu and un buildings are bugged, businesses are spied on and the intelligence services of all countries are uniting. this is no longer about fighting terrorism, but about organized crime, and it is on behalf of governments! it's happening right now. surveillance and espionage are the oldest friends of the cold war, the brothers of an outdated policy, and we do not want to have them again! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. what we are asking for now is full disclosure. we are asking for a committee of inquiry, with the involvement of the members of the european parliament, as is the case in a normal parliament. we call on the member states to set up similar committees in parliaments to examine whether and how domestic intelligence services are involved in the scandal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we demand consequences: an end to these spying programmes, a review of the anti-terrorist legislation which violates fundamental rights - also in our member states! and above all - i say this to you frankly - it is also necessary to question the omnipotence of our intelligence services and our states. mutual trust is to be established, must be restored. but this is not the result of backroom politics, but requires clear public signals to the citizens of our countries! and unless there are tangible and real consequences, there can be no further negotiations on any treaties between the eu and the usa, let alone on a free trade agreement, which would be the biggest in world history. let us finally show our backbone as a parliament! i think obama should be invited.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the relationship of trust with the us is disturbed, not only because we do not yet know the extent and scope of prism, but also because of the eavesdropping or bugging of the eu representation. this is also unacceptable from my point of view and i am very disappointed. we must therefore have a serious discussion with the united states about the right balance between the security interests of the intelligence services on the one hand and the protection of privacy on the other. and we need a clear response from the eu and especially from the european parliament. i am also expecting a serious request for information, which has thankfully already been made. i expect sufficient information from the obama administration to clarify practice and implementation. and here the group of experts seems to be making progress. i expect us, as manfred weber has already reported, to look again at the data protection reform, to see what we can do to protect our citizens and what we can do about it. i also expect that in this initial situation we will call very clearly on the united states to give our citizens in the united states the same legal protection as that of us citizens. and i also expect us to go ahead with our possibilities, that on the one hand we have a committee of inquiry, but that we also consider whether we might not also suspend our delegation trips for a few months, but that we also consider whether the safe harbor agreement can still be valid at all. and basically what we need is the protection of privacy, the rule of law of innocent citizens and the .... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this is not an easy question to answer, because we don't know the extent of the problem at the moment. in my experience, it is better to have an agreement with the us, because then we can also focus on the use of data and on data protection, which is then strengthened, rather than saying we do not regulate anything. so it's good that we can, or should, pursue this. and we should continue to cooperate in the atlantic context in the areas of terrorism, organised crime and serious crime, but - as i said - in accordance with the rule of law and the protection of privacy.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the words transparency, proportionality, dimension are the key words. of course there will always be espionage. but spying on friends as if it were the cold war adversary, the soviet union, is not going overboard. the spying on european union offices is one thing. but if in germany, for example, 500 million internet connections, telephone connections are tapped every month, then i simply have to realize that every dimension has been lost here. this has nothing to do with counterterrorism, it has to do with the fact that non-americans are seen as enemies and as dangerous. it must be made clear that the security syndrome that has existed in america since september 11 must not lead to the imbalance between the necessary security measures, including intelligence services, also for the fight against terrorism, and personal freedom, so that personal freedom is no longer possible. that is why we must fix this now, not by cutting off the line, not by recalling ambassadors, not by not negotiating ttip or anything like that, but by actually negotiating these negotiations so that we can improve the conditions so that this cannot happen again in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. whether terrorism or economic espionage, at the latest in view of the massive data collections in the us and the uk, it should be clear to everyone that there is no trade-off between security and freedom, between security and privacy! so the verbal outrage must now be followed by concrete consequences. there are a number of things we can do if we have the courage to do so: postpone the start of negotiations with the united states on a trade agreement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european institutions are not subject to any form of surveillance. to reject a european passenger name record system definitively; at least carefully review and, if appropriate, terminate existing agreements such as swift or the us passenger information agreement; the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules be extended to all the data protection packages. and one last note: the role of intelligence services, their specific tasks and responsibilities must be re-discussed in our globalized and digitized world!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a lot has been said. i think what we decide tomorrow is just a matter of proportionality. and it has been rightly said that this parliament must take care of the vital civil rights of europeans. it has been rightly said that we must also make progress with the americans on data protection and that this is also an aspect of the free trade agreement. but we must see the proportionality. we are at the beginning of what we call the information process. we are at the beginning of what is necessary in terms of transparency, so that we can then see the corresponding decisions also in the transatlantic relationship. it is therefore simply not serious to hold hostage at this stage to a free trade agreement which is not only in the interests of the americans but also in the interests of the european citizens, and which is not a question of the primacy of the economy but of the welfare of the european citizens. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to take part in the negotiations on the new gatt agreement, and that it will not be able to take part in the negotiations on the new gatt agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, imagine that in october you are in washington with your colleague karel de gucht negotiating the free trade agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they go into a room in the eu delegation and discuss the strategy, what to give, what to take, and say: 'maybe i'll join the rapporteur of the parliament for a moment.' they then send an e-mail to mr albrecht to discuss the strategy with parliament again. and then you go back into the negotiations and the american partners already know everything you have discussed strategically, because they have listened to two rooms further on what karel de gucht and viviane reding have discussed, and they know the e-mail that viviane reding sent to mr albrecht. this is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. until it is absolutely clear that this is over, that this is over, we cannot start political negotiations on a free trade system.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the next european elections will take place at the end of may 2014. we expect a lower turnout and more extreme or anti-european parties as a result of the crisis in europe. how can we cope? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, by the member states also indicating on the ballot papers the names and logos of the european parties, so that voters know that if they vote for me as the fdp candidate, they will not get 100% fdp politics, but liberal politics within the liberal european party family, the so-called alde the name is unfortunately hardly known in germany. secondly, by the political parties nominating in good time a candidate for the office of president of the commission, who can then launch a europe-wide election campaign on european issues, and not on national issues as before, because the next newly elected european parliament will, for the first time since the treaty of lisbon, directly elect the president of the commission. and thirdly - last but not least - by the parties appointing more women so that the majority of the european population - the women - can see their concerns reflected in european politics and feel represented. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrew duff, once again for the extensive work he has done and to express my regret that the transnational lists have not been implemented during this parliamentary term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the age of democracy, this must apply to all policy areas: citizens are not just objects, but they are the subjects of all political decisions. the citizens must also experience this, and they must experience it particularly in europe. how's that today? when we have european elections, many parties do not talk about european issues at all, but about national interests. and when the election is over, suddenly there is a commission president who was never elected but who was later enchanted out of the hat in a dark room. we cannot increase the participation of the citizens in this way, but rather we increase their frustration! i therefore strongly support the proposal that in future political parties should declare their candidates for the office of president of the commission before the elections and that only those who have been candidates on the ballot papers before should be elected and elected by the european parliament in the light of the election results. i 'm not ... (the president cut the speaker off)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its report and thank most of all the rapporteur for the wonderful work he has done, together with his colleagues in the committee. this report goes in the same direction as the commission’s recommendation in seeking to improve voter turnout at the european elections. this will require joint efforts on the part of the european as well as the national political parties and the member states. everything the commission can do in order to help in this endeavour will be done.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. with this framework directive, which aims to bring attacks against information systems under a common european minimum criminal law framework, we are setting up an important building block which is also part of the fight against cybercrime. on the one hand, in the recitals to this criminal law directive we also mention the issues of training, prevention, the issues relating to the prevention of attacks on information systems. but when attacks do occur, it is essential that there is also a criminal law framework that is harmonised and that provides for common minimum sentences. it is of the utmost importance that we make it a criminal offence in our member states to manufacture, sell and procure for use, import or distribute or otherwise make available devices which could be used to commit the offences in question. it also concerns the introduction of aggravating circumstances, for example when botnets are used the bredolab botnet, which was shut down in 2010 and had up to 30 million computers under its control, was able to distribute up to 3.6 billion spam emails and corresponding malware per day. the most dangerous thing about these botnets is that many private users don't even realize that their computer is infected and can be used as a zombie computer accordingly. it is estimated that one in four internet-connected pcs is a zombie. the risks to our entire networks, critical infrastructures and other areas can be seen from this single example alone.we have also taken care in this criminal law directive to classify large-scale cyberattacks as aggravating circumstances and, in particular, to make it punishable to conceal the true identity of the perpetrator of cyberattacks if this causes serious damage to the legitimate identity owner. we also dealt with the issue of organised crime in particular, where it is also used by organised crime to commit the most heinous crimes, such as human trafficking, child pornography, or other serious crimes. recently, 400 million euros were taken in a single type of financial attack. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. it is also extremely important that we strengthen cooperation between member states, because only cooperation between member states can lead to improved cooperation in the fight against international networks of organised crime, in the area of cybercrime. the internet is international in nature. the internet crime in particular shows that it is urgent for the european member states to work together, because only together can we adequately deter serious crime. but it also includes the training and further training of judges, judicial officers, prosecutors and police officers, so that we can come to an adequate fight against serious cybercrime.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not alone. thank you to the colleagues for your contributions. i'm still the one who has to put some water in the wine today. because, of course, it's important that we have more security against attacks on information systems. of course it is right that we take political steps in this regard. the problem is that this directive does not give us any more security, mr díaz de mera, because this directive only concerns criminal law. and criminal law solves security problems, but not social problems per se. and criminal law is also a tool that should be used as an ultimate tool. we have now agreed to harmonize penalties - a right thing to do in principle! but it must also be said that the effect that is being produced here, namely to increase penalties more and more, is the wrong effect. instead, it would have been important to include exactly what mr enciu has proposed, namely the responsibility of operators for gaps in information systems. instead, those who point out these gaps are now being punished. and we don't think that is proportionate.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful to ms hohlmeier, the committee and the parliament for this important work and also for this interesting debate. i hope that the parliament will endorse the proposals and the compromise agreements tomorrow, so that the directive can enter into force and make a much-awaited contribution to combating cyber-attacks in the european union.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to thank you warmly for your contribution to this debate. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for its close cooperation. i would also like to thank commissioner reding for being here tonight specifically to discuss this issue, since she is also concerned in the judicial area. i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs who have given me a lot of support, whether it be my colleague mr enciu or mr alvaro, who i wish could be here today. i would like to mention him specifically and thank him. i would like to thank mrs nicolai for taking on this role here tonight. i would like to thank my colleague timothy kirkhope and all the many colleagues. if mr albrecht has just said that he wants to add water to the wine, we have reached a common agreement that at least those who point out the shortcomings will not be punished. as i said, these are called minor cases. that is why they are ultimately excluded from the criminal law directive, even though we are no longer able to fully implement his important wish. but i thank you very much for the good cooperation. we also got to take questions from the test. this is at least one of the many building blocks that need to be put in place to combat cybercrime, but also to strengthen internet security, and especially to raise awareness among the population. because knowledge of the internet is one of the core competences we need to achieve. a word of caution to the member states: if they are concerned about the security of their own systems and critical infrastructures, they should not be so alarmed when the commission demands that member states also have minimum standards.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to exchange views, on behalf of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, on the question of the implementation of the common position by eu member states and its current ongoing review. our common position is one of the most developed instruments in the world to regulate and harmonise arms exports. it finds its origin in the 1998 eu code of conduct, which evolved into a legally binding cfsp common position in 2008. its main purpose is to make eu member states’ arms exports more responsible and transparent. it does so by requiring that arms exports from eu member states be duly controlled and authorised before weapons are shipped abroad. it has served, and continues to serve, as a reference also for third countries in the eu neighbourhood and beyond which are willing to improve their regulations on arms exports. according to the provisions of the common position, member states are requested to assess any arms exports outside the eu against a set of parameters that include the risk of the exported arms contributing to a serious violation of international humanitarian law and human rights, the risk of diversion to unintended users, and the impact of exported arms on regional stability and possible internal conflicts. at the same time the common position stipulates that each export application should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. this means that issues such as the specific end-users, the quantity and type of weapons and the circumstances under which the export takes place are all factors to be taken into account. this also implies that the fact that a certain arms export is denied to a certain country does not mean that a particular country is or should be under an eu arms embargo. the eu has developed specific sanction tools that are very distinct from the scope of application of the common position covering weapons that can potentially be transferred. by establishing a set of common export criteria and a specific consultation mechanism, the common position also contributes to the gradual harmonisation of eu member states’ national arms export policies and to the avoidance of any undercutting among them. this objective is being attained in particular through the export and denials exchange mechanism, which requires that every member state, before taking a decision on an export application similar to one denied by another member state in the past, shall consult the other member state in question. member states also regularly exchange views on arms export policies towards specific destinations in the council working party responsible for the implementation of the common position, that is to say, the coarm working party. the common position certainly represents a very advanced instrument in the field of arms export control. it also contains specific provisions concerning its implementation that should be fully borne in mind when assessing its functioning. notwithstanding the common framework provided by it for our 28 member states, actual decisions on each and every arms export continue to be taken at national level by the relevant state authorities in our member states. consequently, the risk assessments conducted by single member states for similar export applications can be different and lead to a different result. in a way one could claim that the common position establishes an obligation of process but not of result for members states conducting risk assessments on export applications. this is an important aspect that should be borne in mind when considering what obligations the common position imposes on member states and when it is appropriate to refer to its possible violation. at the same time, member states continue to be held accountable for their arms export decisions, thanks to the fact that the common position contains very solid transparency provisions, including the requirement for eu member states and the eu as a whole to publish very detailed eu annual reports on arms exports. these reports meet the highest standards in terms of publicly available data relating to arms exports. transparency is a prerequisite for responsibility, and these reports constitute an outstanding tool for public opinion, for civil society and, most importantly, for the european parliament and national parliaments to fully exercise their democratic scrutiny over governmental decisions on arms exports. let me now say a few words on the ongoing review of the common position, which fell due three years after its adoption in december 2009. the review started in early 2012, following a thorough analysis based on a detailed questionnaire to which all the eu member states responded. the preliminary results of the review have confirmed the appropriateness of the current text of the common position, as the foreign affairs council noted in its conclusions of 19 november 2012 while also noting that further work is needed in the actual implementation of its provisions. the coarm council working party continues to work on the improvement of several implementation aspects of the common position, including information-sharing on sensitive destinations and the development of denial notification exchanges. their overall objective is to increase the amount and added value of the information shared, with a view to increasing consistency in member state decisions, based on more relevant and more timely information-sharing among member states. these improvements should eventually be reflected, inter alia, in a fully updated version of the user’s guide, a politically binding document developed by coarm that provides guidance in the application and interpretation of the common position. the european parliament and civil society have been and continue to be kept fully involved and informed along the different stages of the review, including through six-monthly dedicated coarm-ngo meetings and regular hearings of the coarm chair in the subcommittee on security and defence. beyond the eu, it is worth remembering that the common position is also applied by a number of third countries in the eu’s close neighbourhood. the eu has also been promoting the application of the criteria and transparency requirements of the common position in third countries through an ambitious and long-term outreach and assistance programme under the cfsp budget, including the latest council decision, adopted in november 2012, to allocate eur 1.8 million for this purpose. finally, the eu has also been at the forefront in promoting the improvement of arms export control at a global level through the strong and visible role played in the arms trade treaty negotiations in the un. the att was adopted on 2 april 2013 by the un general assembly and represents a milestone in the global regulation of the arms trade. the treaty sets, for the first time, common transfer parameters and significant transparency provisions that will be applicable to all state parties to the treaty. the att has the full potential to make trade in arms more responsible and transparent, thus contributing to international peace and security and to the reduction of human suffering and arms violence for all citizens in the world. in order to enter into force the treaty needs to be ratified by at least 50 un states. the eu member states have expressed their strong wish to ratify the treaty as soon as possible and you, honourable members, have a considerable role to play in this context. indeed, since the att covers some issues of eu competence, the consent of the european parliament will be sought before the council can authorise its ratification by eu member states. we count on your support in ensuring that this process can be completed as swiftly as possible and that we can provide the critical mass of our 28 eu member states to reach the entry-into-force threshold.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. guns are not commodities like any other. if they fall into the wrong hands, they can do a lot of damage. if they remain under the control of responsible governments, they can act as a deterrent to aggressors. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. for all these reasons, it is good that we have agreed common rules and licensing procedures for the export of military technology and equipment. there is no other community of states like ours, and apparently these rules are so attractive that fortunately third countries also apply these rules. the 2008 common position is a legally binding framework with eight criteria. the presidency drew attention to the work of the coarm council working party, which has produced a user guide on the uniform interpretation and application of the criteria. we note that, of course, we as a parliament are not involved in the decision on this question. it is not a community matter, but the member states are the ones responsible for the application and also the interpretation in each individual case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu's role in this process is to ensure that the eu is consistent, and that the high representative is the leader. and we, as the european parliament, would like to be kept regularly informed about this. we, as a group, of course also support the arms trade treaty, which will soon enter into force and be applied.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in mali, rebels are firing german g3 rifles at malian and french soldiers. germany is sending troops to support french troops and is selling arms to qatar. qatar is selling german g3 rifles to malian rebels. malian rebels shooting and so on and so on. this is absurdity! but it's not just that. we know what happens when arms and surveillance technology is supplied to authoritarian states. we know that people are being murdered and tortured in these states. we hear about the deaths of thousands of people over and over again. to prevent this, eu governments adopted the common position on arms export controls in 2008. but we know, we see that it doesn't work. and it is not supposed to work either, because arms exports are useful - useful for the profits of the arms industry, but also useful if you want to equip useful partners for strategic purposes - as the german chancellor wants to supply saudi arabia. and i want to keep it that way for many. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the elderly, which is a report on the implementation of the european year of the elderly. i say this to those who, here in this house, also wear the christian flag on their flags and who always make it so clear that the eu is a union of peace. if you want to take a step towards the eu as a peaceful union, you can do so tomorrow, you can vote for the joint resolution by the greens, the socialists and the gue/ngl, which contains the main points of my report which was rejected and covers all the compromises reached with the political groups. i would like to conclude by replying to mr lisek's question: the conservative majority has watered down my report to such an extent that we could only vote against it. and then you voted against this report yourself. why, mr lisek? perhaps you can answer that in your speech. perhaps so that this debate will never be held in this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. while the 2008 economic and financial crisis had a direct impact on many countries around the world, in georgia the devastating effects of the war with russia added to this economic setback. although the eu has already provided part of the macro-financial assistance pledged at the donors' conference, georgia needs further support. foreign investment has not yet returned to pre-war levels and, despite promising growth prospects, georgia's negative current account and high debt-servicing obligations are creating a precarious current account. given that the payments under discussion today were requested by georgia more than three years ago, it is high time that the eu honoured its pledge. i am grateful that the rapporteur has been able to push through parliament's request for an advisory committee. the member states have unnecessarily sought to influence the allocation of funds by means of an examination procedure. the compromise reached now, which always provides for the advisory committee procedure for macrofinancial assistance up to 90 million, could significantly speed up the process for future aid commitments to other countries. economic stability and prosperity are important preconditions for political stability. with so many hotspots of conflict from south ossetia to nagorno karabakh, there is hardly a region more in need of this than the south caucasus.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union is increasingly abandoning multilateralism. we see this in ttip and all the other bilateral agreements, and also in tisa, the plurilateral agreement on trade in services, which has already been negotiated in two rounds. the first negotiating talks between the eu and 21 other countries took place in march, before the council even had a mandate. the commission has also failed to submit an impact assessment, as it is required to do, and to carry out a consultation, as it is required to do. the commission's timetable made it impossible for parliament to adopt an opinion before the mandate decision was taken. i wonder what this means in relation to the importance which the commission attaches to parliament. the commission is working with 21 countries to liberalize trade in services, although the majority of countries in the world are not doing so. it is not clear why tisa is even being negotiated. because the countries that do have so many bilateral agreements with each other, or are negotiating them, that tisa is of little benefit to them. so their primary concern is not to improve trade between themselves. they want to get others to join. but that's not gonna happen. we don't want this deal! we believe that nothing should be negotiated outside the wto. such agreements may not be imposed on other states. we believe that tisa is not compatible with the wto and we would like the commission to explain in more detail how it intends to make tisa compatible with the wto.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. we are debating a negotiating mandate which has already been given by the council. this is unacceptable to the european parliament! i expect the commission to make a statement that it will avoid in future taking decisions on important negotiating mandates by the fast track procedure and will take away from the european parliament the right to define the criteria on which we will base our approval at the end of the procedure. tisa is an important agreement with far-reaching implications for the daily lives of citizens. services have long been a sensitive subject within the european union. in particular, our citizens do not want to leave services in such important areas as water, education and health to privatisation. but it is also important that consumer protection is maintained in the case of services provided by private companies. liability insurance must be available, contracts must be drawn up in the customer's language. we have discussed these issues extensively in the context of the services directive, including here in the house on several occasions, and my group cannot accept that those who advocate the complete liberalisation of the services sector are always looking for new back doors or agreements to infiltrate sensitive sectors of the services sector against the will of the european population! the commission should finally take note that neither the governments of the member states nor the european parliament as a whole want to go down this road! my group has tabled a number of amendments in which we want to address the concerns of the citizens and to provide clarity and a mandate. i can only ask you not to ignore these legitimate concerns. the most important step in this direction is to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the conduct of negotiations. so, commissioner, inform your own people!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the world stage - particularly in the context of the doha round - the call for less isolation in agricultural markets is growing louder. i can understand that countries with a marked difference in development and sometimes a very high economic dependence on agriculture are very sceptical about liberalization. but norway is a highly developed country with a comparatively small agricultural sector in europe. the norwegian butter crisis in 2011, for example, with crazy high prices for butter on the black market, has brought back memories of long-forgotten times of intra-european smuggling and highlighted how much the norwegian population is being burdened by the tariffs. i can also understand that you do not want to subject small and uncompetitive farming in norway to the full pressure of the single market. but for an eea member like norway in particular, there must be other ways than imposing ridiculously high import duties. i therefore have two questions. you answered one. i wanted to ask how the commission has dealt with this so far. you explained that briefly. but the important question is, of course, that you spoke of starting bilateral talks. how can something like this look concrete? how can we finally convince our norwegian partners that they must use other means to protect their farmers than what they have done so far?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in danger of many consumers simply being left out of the digital single market. we therefore urgently need rules to ensure universal access to internet services for all citizens in the european union. the accessibility of online services, the expansion of high-speed broadband, net neutrality, the development of technical infrastructure - these are the keywords we find in this resolution. i would like to thank mr arias and also mr correia for the excellent work they have done in this context. these are the questions we must address. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the net neutrality of the european union is maintained. i am therefore surprised that the epp has called for a separate vote on this point. withdrawn? mr. schwab, you can be reasonable sometimes. thank you. because this net neutrality is something that is very fundamental. we must ensure that all citizens, all entrepreneurs, including rural entrepreneurs, have access - everyone has the same access at the same speed. the point is to make sure that everyone can get on board together. i think we have a very good resolution here and i look forward to the vote afterwards.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank our colleague, pablo arias, and the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for drawing up this draft for the plenary today. the digital single market, the digital revolution, has revolutionized the european economy to a significant extent, creating many new opportunities for citizens and consumers. with this new reality, with these new starting conditions and in view of the difficulties of the economic and financial crisis, it is our duty to try to make the opportunities that lie in this development available to all citizens in europe. the aim of this resolution is therefore that we should work together to create the conditions for the european single market so that all citizens can actually benefit from it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i see mrs trautmann, who has worked hard on the question of how we can simplify roaming. there are many other colleagues who have been active in other places. i myself have been working on the consumer rights directive and have seen that 27 national legal systems end up with the consumer not being able to shop abroad wherever he wants. this situation is not sustainable in the long term, even if some people are benefiting from this system today - the member states who do not have to adapt their national laws, the monopolists or the market leaders who are benefiting from it. this is not a forward-looking concept, we must work on it! thirdly, i believe that we need to make it clear how consumers can benefit from this digital single market. there are studies that show that where consumers have real choice, up to 20% economic growth is possible and 25% additional jobs can be created. not to mention that there are also substantial price reductions and thus cost savings for consumers. mr president, this requires investment. it is a matter of effort, and we shall find that in the file which we hope to receive soon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three things are crucial from a cultural policy point of view for the completion of the digital single market. first, the success of the internet is due to its open nature. it can only be preserved by clear legal safeguards of net neutrality. the commission is now proposing transparency requirements which are far from sufficient. we must also pay close attention to the interoperability of offers so that innovation can unfold and be bundled. these two basic principles are the basis for the non-discriminatory access of everyone. second, we want to empower creatives and authors in the digital economy. the aim must be to achieve a fair and equitable balance of interests between users and authors, recognising and promoting the cultural and economic potential of the cultural and creative industries at an early stage. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would have liked more in this parliament. thirdly, a high level of media literacy among all will be crucial to driving the further development of the growth market. everyone should be able to exploit the opportunities of the digital society independently and protect themselves against risks. we need a high level of data protection here. i hope that the report will be adopted.
in writing. i am pleased that the adoption of this important forward-looking report took place today and was not postponed. it is particularly important that the juri amendments to the common european sales law have been adopted and thus confirmed in the form of an optional instrument. we are sending a clear and important signal that the common european sales law is supported by the european parliament, as already demonstrated by the european parliament's resolution a7-0164/2011 of 8 june 2011. the common european sales law will play a major role in the digital single market in particular and will significantly promote the single market. the european parliament has shown that it has recognized this with this resolution. consumers and businesses will benefit from the common european sales law, also beyond the digital single market. this is particularly true for cloud computing and digital content.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur in particular. i really hope that this report will be widely accepted, but it is a scandal that we have to submit such a report in the first place. the picture of europe has long been very positive: relative prosperity, solid social security systems that ensure access to care and medical care for all citizens, among other things. but this picture is getting a lot of cracks! and this is particularly true in the programme countries, but not only there! the massive increase in youth unemployment, cuts in pensions and social benefits on the one hand, and increased drug surcharges and healthcare access fees on the other, are showing their effects. in the heart of europe, the number of people who are facing massive barriers to access health and care services is increasing. the elderly, children from low-income households, the unemployed, migrants and people with disabilities are particularly affected. and it is a scandal that in the middle of europe people are begging for their medicines or are forced to forgo medical care altogether because of poverty. for too long, the crisis has left us focused on fiscal issues and ignoring the social impact, the health consequences and the resulting long-term costs. we can no longer stand by and watch as we lose a whole generation of young people right now and see basic social services like health care sacrificed on the altar of a rigid austerity policy. we need to strengthen social impact assessment in general and to take greater account of social criteria in the evaluation of public budgets. we need to invest urgently in work and training, including in the health professions. we need fair working conditions and a strengthening of social security systems in this and all other areas. the democratic and social europe is the future - also for our citizens! but we must shape them, and not some day, but right now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's not bad? care becomes a savings item for public budgets, reduced to a commodity. the consequences are, on the one hand, a deterioration in the working conditions of nurses. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts. the fact that the pressure on nurses is increasing is also shown by the statistics which say that burnout is increasing, not only in germany but also in greece. on the other hand, we have a deterioration in the care of the people in need. the reality is, if you look at the demographics, we need more and better care. this requires the transformation and reorganisation of national health and care systems. you have to worry about funding. we need more nurses, we need better nurses. the state has to step in. this is a european problem which we can tackle by exchanging ideas, by looking at best practice examples which then, of course, have to be implemented under the responsibility of the member states.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is firmly committed to ensuring better awareness and implementation of 112 in member states. meanwhile the commission has taken a number of initiatives to address the issues raised by parliament. we agree that the commission has a role to play in supporting member states’ efforts to promote 112. together with vice-president kallas, we invited transport companies to join a year-long campaign to raise the awareness of customers when travelling in another member state. this year we have extended the initiative to travel agencies and tour operators. the commission, together with the authorities, produced a video campaign in greece. we intend to promote this approach in other member states where awareness is low. caller location is an important element for effective access to emergency services. the regulatory authorities in member states are responsible for defining criteria for accuracy and reliability of caller location information. taking into account the ongoing expert work in cept, the commission is working with member states to build a common understanding on requirements for this criterion. as a follow-up to last year’s cocom 112 implementation report, neelie kroes’ services, together with member states, have developed a set of key performance indicators (known as kpis) to facilitate comparison of data on the implementation of 112. building on last year’s pilot, we will now refocus our reporting exercise on the kpis. we will thus have more transparency and comparability on the performance of emergency access services in member states. parliament’s call for an independent evaluation of the quality of service and the deployment of a reverse 112 system is very much in the remit of member states. as for providing a platform to share best practices, the expert group on emergency access is serving this purpose. an eu-funded project has provided valuable input to improve accessibility for disabled end users. pilot projects in five member states have demonstrated the maturity of total conversation technology – combining voice, text and video, including the use of relay services and access to 112. further standardisation efforts are underway.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am extremely grateful to those who initiated this oral question. i would like to ask you to take up a little more of what mrs rapti and mrs thun and hohenstein, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, have already said in an own-initiative report a few months ago. commissioner, we have spoken this morning about the digital single market and the difficulties we face in completing it. we see from the example of the 112 number that consumers who go on holiday across frontiers, for example, and who in such a situation, hopefully rarely, but in individual cases do need help, end up failing at the old frontiers of the member states. that is why the example of the 112 emergency number, which is still not available in all member states in a way that would be beneficial for consumers, shows that we must maintain the pressure - and i urge you, commissioner hahn, to help us - on the member states to urgently remove the barriers that still exist in the internal market at this point and to help ensure that what mr takkula said earlier is actually possible in the end, especially the adaptations to the different languages of the callers. the system is currently available in principle only to consumers who have a command of the language spoken in the member state concerned. this is not going to be a system that satisfies us in the long run. the ecall project, a technical project in the automotive sector, will not be able to remedy this situation either. that is why we will have to continue to work on this politically.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. have you personally experienced a state of shock, perhaps as a result of a serious accident or a life-threatening situation? then you will surely remember that at that moment you could not think of names or important telephone numbers. it is particularly important during the holiday season, when a briton is on holiday in poland and a latvian is in the south of france, to ask whether there is a european emergency number and what it is. everyone should know her! since such situations can occur anywhere in our open european single market, the single emergency number 112 is so important. the single emergency number is also essential for the implementation of the ecall electronic emergency call, to which all member states have committed themselves in a memorandum of understanding. the european parliament therefore calls in its own-initiative report on ecall for it to be based on the 112 emergency number. finally, ecall is a service in the sense of a public service and a public task. this is the only way to ensure that the system operates free of charge and without discrimination. member states have a major catch-up need in equipping their emergency call centres with 112 based hardware and software. it's time for them to act. commission, what are you doing about it?
the commission has already done so. the member states agreed in 1991 that a single euro-number was needed. despite this, and although it is a very long time ago, only around 25% of eu citizens know that this single number exists. i think that has to change! for example, in italy, where only 5% of the population know that this number exists, compared to poland, where half the population knows it. that's the one thing that needs to change. the caller location is also very important. we have to find some way to have automatic caller location in foreign countries, where there are definitely communication difficulties in an emergency. mr koch has said that we have a very important area in the transport committee which we want to implement with ecall. the european conference on post and telecommunications will, to my knowledge, not make a proposal on how to deal with this until the end of 2014. i wonder, however, if they do not come forward with the proposal until the end of 2014, when will the commission be able to make a reasonable regulation on this matter? that's my first question. what does the commission intend to do about this and how does it intend to proceed in the end?
the commission has already done so. the emergency number 112 can save lives! fortunately, we have greater mobility, and freedom of movement makes it possible. i would like to refer to subsidiarity at this point. the question is why the european union has to do this. the member states could have implemented this a long time ago. but obviously it's not working. it is a sign of poverty that the member states cannot do this alone. i think it is right, in the interests of citizens' rights, in the interests of improving emergency alerting and also in the interests of location, that we introduce this, but i would simply like to say at this point: here the eu must now act in the service of, in the interests of, the citizens, because the member states have not succeeded on their own.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you to my shadow reporters and shadow reporters. the report comes at the right time. there is no longer any doubt that hybrid television is pushing european media regulation to its limits. we must now set in motion important socio-political changes so that the normative force of the factual does not overtake us. media convergence opens up a wide field of tension. while some are breathing fresh air and seeing the opportunity to completely abandon media regulation in favour of competition law, others are looking to override broadcasting regulation on the internet. both ways are wrong. as long as there is a consensus that we want to achieve sociopolitical effects with media policy rules - whether it is youth protection or media diversity - we cannot treat this area like a trade in bread and butter. media are economic and cultural assets in equal measure. as long as we agree that media content cannot be controlled in its entirety, we need to come up with creative ideas to establish a future-proof regulatory system that maintains that balance. there are new players on the market, platform providers and tv manufacturers for example, but they are not covered by the avmd directive at all so far. but both are unquestionably capable of becoming gatekeepers, deciding which content gets to the public and which content gets found and which content doesn't. the findability of content is becoming one of the key issues in the convergent media world. this fact will have to be taken into account in any media regulation that is to have an impact in the future. the report sets out basic assumptions and does not provide all the answers to all the questions that arise. i am convinced that a future-proof media regulation must rely more on co-regulation and self-regulation, coupled with incentive systems that will then be discussed. this is the only way to limit government influence to abuse control without sacrificing diversity, fair advertising regulation and child and youth protection. it is the only way to avoid the censorship that some people have inexplicably accused me of. each media service should be privileged to be found on the screen of a hybrid television set which, independently of its content, fulfils a specific social mission or meets consensually agreed requirements serving the general interests of society. every media outlet is allowed to participate. we cannot allow platform providers or device manufacturers to determine what we see on our screens and what we don't. in the end, the viewer has to decide what content they want to find where. we need to make sure that this is as simple and user-friendly as possible. there are already indications of insufficient protection of the integrity of signals and content. we should ensure that media regulators allow the overlaying of content from third parties only if the viewer or the provider of the primary content authorises it. the convergence of radio and the internet has led to the development of new specific forms of advertising. linear services are currently subject to strict rules, nonlinear internet services are allowed almost anything. this leads to further distortions of competition and poses refinancing problems for private broadcasters. the current quantitative advertising regulation, which counts minutes per hour, is simply prehistoric and should be put to the test. finally, i think it is essential that it should remain a matter of principle for the individual whether he prefers to watch a medical series, a documentary or a star tv programme via his hybrid television set. this week's debate on data collection should have made it clear to all of us that alongside the many benefits that the beautiful new media world has to offer, there are also dangers that touch fundamental rights at their core. i hope that this report will help us to make some points which will guide the debate in the years ahead. i hope for a large majority in this house.
i have to say, madam president, the report by petra kammerevert sheds light on one aspect of the converging media world. the boundaries between the different media offerings are becoming increasingly blurred as content is disseminated via the internet. smart tvs represent a particular form of converged media. it is the fusion of traditional radio services with the possibility of simultaneously using services from the network. this presents a particular challenge for the audiovisual media sector, which is subject to strict regulation by the audiovisual media services directive, while online offerings are affected by regulations such as e-commerce and others. this is where similar offers with different regulatory densities come together. we must find answers here that are both in keeping with the openness of the internet on the one hand, and the social relevance of broadcasting on the other. we will continue to work intensively on the subject of media convergence over the coming months. this report is a first step in the right direction. i thank you for your cooperation with the rapporteur.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is no wonder that we liberals will reject this report today, because it is in fact a step towards censorship. the report does not yet show that this is the case, but it does point in that direction. it must be made very clear, mrs kammerevert, that we do not want platforms to regulate everything, but we also do not want politics to regulate what the individual consumer has to see. we cannot say about political activity: this is good; this is bad; it is easily accessible to the consumer; the consumer must find it quickly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think this is the first step towards censorship. and that's exactly what we don't want as liberals. we must be aware that there is a diversity in the future. public service broadcasting used to be an institution for the protection of knowledge, but today it is in danger because we have so much diversity. i think the consumer can decide for himself what he wants to see.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, in short, i do not want to talk about the substance. almost all the groups agree that we have a successful trilogue. i would ask my colleague from alde to dispense with his oral amendment, since the content of the oral amendment is already in the text. it is quite pointless to table an oral amendment which is already covered by this criminal law directive. then we wouldn't have to be at odds.
the oral amendment was not tabled. before the vote on amendment no 1:
mrs gomes, i cannot allow a debate on this report. before the vote on paragraph 16:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you see a vote on paragraph 39, a paragraph which has no place in this resolution, because it is an own-initiative report and we are in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the legal affairs committee at the moment in the legislative process. the imco committee will vote next week, and the juri committee in september. that is why my colleague, luigi berlinguer, and i myself, on behalf of these two committees, have decided to recommend that our group should not take part in the vote on paragraph 39, in order not to prejudge the debate taking place in the legislative process. whatever happens to paragraph 39, we will of course vote for the overall resolution because for us that paragraph is irrelevant and the rest of the resolution is very positive and very good.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we just wanted to point out that croatia last friday, two days before accession, adopted the so-called lex perković, which no longer provides for extradition to germany. we feel that this is not a very fair approach just before accession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. further macrofinancial assistance for georgia i too voted in favour of this report because i think it is good that the european union is intervening in a positive way and also helping. that's right! but i must also mention one small point: i think it is important that we first of all help, but secondly that we should explicitly check the success of the project. in this sense, i do not think it is very logical to say that we are still consulting on macrofinancial assistance up to a threshold of eur 90 million. only above this amount will a stricter wording be applied to the payment. i don't think it makes sense, but any story can be improved. i urge you to ensure that the next time we hear this story we examine more closely what this money has been used for and what effect it has had.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is not a report that would have caused much fuss until recently, and it is logical and reasonable in itself. we must, of course, be prepared to work together, and we must also have common criteria for what is criminal, what is permissible and what is not. how we can work together to track online crime; do we need common standards? but as they say, among friends, you must have trust. and of course the situation has been somewhat clouded by recent events and the relationship between the united states intelligence services and the european union. i simply ask that we ask the united states, in the spirit of partnership, to eliminate these negative things from the world so that we can also tackle the other things that are logical and that are on the table for everyone. because trust is the first condition for starting such a project!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. we have repeatedly spoken as a parliament about the need to harmonise the existing legal framework for the safety and protection of citizens operating in the digital market. but not only: the protection, safeguards and rights to be implemented are also those of entrepreneurs who increasingly choose to conduct business online. the growth of the sector requires the leverage of simplification, which is of course based on reducing bureaucracy and the costs associated with it. in this sense, the construction of the digital single market requires the prior coordination of the legislative and functional system to which it refers, eliminating the substantial differences that still exist between the different member states.
in writing. - i am pleased that the adoption of this important forward-looking report took place today and was not postponed. it is particularly important that the juri amendments to the common european sales law have been adopted and thus confirmed in the form of an optional instrument. we are sending a clear and important signal that the common european sales law is supported by the european parliament, as already demonstrated by the european parliament's resolution a7-0164/2011 of 8 june 2011. the common european sales law will play a major role in the digital single market in particular and will significantly promote the single market. the european parliament has shown that it has recognized this with this resolution. consumers and businesses will benefit from the common european sales law, also beyond the digital single market. this is particularly true for cloud computing and digital content.
in writing. − it is important to emphasise again at this point that the fragmentation of the digital single market is made considerably more difficult by completely different legal regimes. this is not in the interests of consumers or small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore vote for paragraph 39, i.e. an optimal european contract law, because at present only an additional system can overcome the legal fragmentation of the internal market in the medium term. the outcome of the consumer rights directive (schwab report) has shown that member states are not currently prepared to adapt their legal systems to a european framework to the extent necessary.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not europe was not least born out of christianity, as the wonderful exhibition of the six major marian pilgrimage sites - including mariazell, commissioner - here in the european parliament, which the town of altötting brought here, shows. there have been bloody confrontations with islam throughout history, but also many fruitful exchanges. and this fruitful exchange would be a unique opportunity for africa and, above all, for one of its potentially strongest and richest countries, nigeria, which has a future only on the basis of the rule of law, tolerance and interreligious dialogue and respect for minorities - and especially religious minorities. we must therefore support this coexistence in nigeria as europeans on the basis of models that we ourselves develop. and in a few weeks' time, there will be a pilgrimage to maria letnica in kosovo, jointly by christians and muslims, as has been the case for decades and centuries. and these symbols, we want to take them to nigeria and say, the substance is human rights, is the dignity of the individual. then living together can be successful.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not if you are sentenced to prison in nigeria, you have no good prospects. the prisons are overcrowded, the food is extremely poor, and medical care is seldom available when ill. in 2011, the country's more than 200 prisons held 48,000 prisoners, according to official figures. this is more than double the capacity limit. even minor offenses carry prison sentences, and poor people often cannot afford bail or fines. the probationary period can be up to ten years. this means that they may have to wait for a trial date for ten years. i say this in conjunction with the call to the eu field office to pay particular attention to the accelerated and far-reaching change in the nigerian justice system and to provide targeted support for reforms. and now a law has been passed that severely punishes people who live in a same-sex relationship, as well as individuals and institutions that defend the rights of lgbti people. the nigerian penal code already provides for prison sentences of up to 14 years for same-sex sexual acts. in the northern states, where the sharia penal code is in force, even harsher punishments are to be expected. homosexuality is called sodomy. for this, unmarried persons face a hundred lashes and one year in prison, married persons face stoning. the new law will make people hide because of their sexual orientation, they won't contact public services, for example, if they are sick, they won't go to hospitals. this is also true for those with hiv/aids. nigeria already has the third highest number of hiv/aids cases in the world. that is why we appeal to the nigerian president not to support this bill in any way!
member of the commission. − mr president, all the topics and concerns that you mention in your draft resolution are addressed with the nigerian authorities in an open and frank manner, as you can judge from the conclusions of our recent political dialogues and the ministerial meeting in mid-may. recent developments are disappointing. we have made a clear statement expressing our concerns following the adoption by the national assembly of the so-called same sex marriage bill. we share your concerns about the impact this bill may have on fundamental freedoms if it receives the president’s assent. we are also disappointed and concerned by the recent execution of four persons in edo state. the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy expressed concerns in a public statement deeply regretting the executions and calling on the authorities to refrain from any further executions. we are maintaining our efforts in this regard, with a special focus on a fifth person who is on death row in edo state, against whom an execution warrant is still pending, with an appeal introduced by ngos ongoing. avoiding unnecessary violence and respecting human rights in countering terrorism are also matters of deep concern to us. clearly, nigeria currently faces serious security challenges and the armed forces and security services are under considerable pressure. one needs to acknowledge this, but respect for fundamental rights is crucial, even when countering terrorism. likewise, respect for the rule of law and the fight against impunity are essential to build durable peace. we have consistently impressed on the nigerian authorities the need to adopt a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, not merely repressing terrorist attacks with extreme violence, but also addressing the root causes of violence, including the development gap, in areas such as health, education and job creation, and working on counter-radicalisation. to conclude, i wish to stress that we share the same concerns about recent developments in nigeria. we will maintain our efforts, on both the political and the cooperation front, to address this with our nigerian partners.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in short, this has been one of the most beautiful plenary weeks of my life, because the croatian flag has finally been planted here! i just want to say that i'm happy. i have had the privilege of working for this for decades, first as a staff member of otto von habsburg and since 1994 as a member of this house. but since this is also the last plenary week before the summer break, i would like to thank you and my fellow vice-presidents and, above all, the staff for the excellent way in which you have conducted our meetings again in the last 12 months and wish you a pleasant and relaxing holiday!
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 4 july 2013.
i must begin our session with a sad announcement: our colleague and friend lothar bisky died unexpectedly on august 13th. his sudden death has affected us all deeply. we have lost a widely respected, highly esteemed member of parliament and a colleague who was loved across party lines. we have lost a credible and competent politician who, as chairman of the group of the european united left/nordic green left, helped to shape germany and europe. we have lost an exceptional human friend who was always loyal and humble to us all, a highly educated and pleasant conversationalist, and will be remembered as such. the death of lothar bisky is a great loss for our parliament, a painful loss for his family and friends. our thoughts are with his family. i ask you to observe a moment of silence in memory of lothar bisky. (parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, on july 24th, a terrible accident occurred in santiago de compostela. in this catastrophic train accident, 79 people were killed. just a few days later, a terrible traffic accident took place in italy, with 39 people killed in a bus accident in campania. this cruel news during the summer time has shocked us all. i would like to express once again our sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims on behalf of the european parliament. the european elections are now some eight months away. this is the eight months in which we want to get people in europe to vote and to take part in the european elections. but it is also eight months - as the group meetings have just shown - in which we still have to complete a number of projects successfully and - i hope - want to complete them. we have already achieved a great deal in recent years, and this parliament is an extremely diligent parliament, with a very high decision-making density. the five years of crisis that have passed have had summers that were considerably more turbulent than this summer. no one is talking about the euro's existential crisis anymore. nevertheless, the euro and the european union need to be stabilised. the eu has also been able to provide a stable currency for the euro area since the accession of latvia on 1 january next year. but unemployment is still alarmingly high, especially among young people. i therefore expect that in the context of the ongoing final negotiations on the financial perspective, we in the european parliament will ensure that, in particular, the funds to be made available for combating youth unemployment by means of the so-called front loading can actually be made available. that is, from what i hear from the committees, not covered at this stage. i hope that we can reach a positive outcome there. the same applies to the banking union. she's still not settled. we in the european parliament are doing what we can to bring them together. and we certainly need it to further strengthen stability in europe. i therefore hope that all the legislation relating to the problems mentioned can be brought to a head in the coming weeks and months. but let me make one point again: the rapid implementation of the multiannual financial framework is certainly a key project for all of us. we have reached an agreement on the ceilings for the next financial period before the summer break. it was not easy and it required a great deal of compromise on the part of many - and i think the majority here - of us. i must say, however, that i am concerned about the negotiations under way in the committees on legal bases and on multiannual programmes and the reports which the chairmen of the committees forward to me. we will not be able to vote on the medium-term financial planning, the regulation on the multiannual financial perspective, until all the commitments given by the council have been fulfilled. i can't see that at this stage. i therefore ask you all to work towards reaching the necessary compromises, if possible, also in the specialised committees.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 september 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no amendment was requested. * * * * * * * * *
i'm not going to let you go. as a democrat, i understand everything, including your proposal. as president, i am obliged to apply the rules of procedure. i am sorry to say that your request is no longer being received in time, and i am therefore unable to accept it or put it to the vote. i am very sorry about this. i am not going to go into the details of the proposal, but i would like to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has presented it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to thank mr swoboda. i have heard no objection to your request for a postponement to thursday. i had a long telephone conversation with mr draghi just before the start of this sitting. i have arranged another meeting with mr draghi for tomorrow and i have invited the members of the negotiating team to meet at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow to discuss a text which we can perhaps formulate in the form of a compromise between the ecb and ourselves on the ecb's information obligations. i will try to get a meeting with mr draghi tomorrow if we can reach a somewhat acceptable result for parliament. if we can't do it tomorrow, we'll have time on wednesday. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i think that's what we're all trying to do. i have also sensed a certain willingness on the part of mr draghi to reach a compromise, but i am sure that we will have to let our imagination run wild. so tomorrow, at 8:30, i'm meeting with our negotiating team and then i'll talk to mr draghi again. i will then ensure that we have feedback from our negotiating team and the group chairmen. but i have not seen anyone who is against mr swoboda's motion. (parliament adopted the resolution) the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the eu.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there were still some legal issues to be resolved in this dossier. we in the epp group, however, believe that we will not be able to resolve these legal issues in the light of the situation we have in the council. politically, we were in agreement on this dossier across all the political groups. we therefore think it is a good thing if we - if i may be so blunt - shut the fuck up now and put the dossier to the vote and then ignore the open legal questions, because - as i said - the political agreement does not allow for anything else.
- i'm not going to. the commission is proposing to instruct the commission to carry out an inquiry and to make a statement at the october partsession on the basis of the findings. are you making this as a separate application?
the alde group's request: a declaration on the suspension of the swift agreement for tomorrow. (parliament rejected the request) mr swoboda has asked for a commission statement to be placed on the agenda for october, i assume as a normal item on the agenda with debate. (parliament adopted the resolution) wednesday: no amendments are tabled. thursday: we have two human rights issues on the agenda for thursday, a third has been requested by the conference of presidents: the situation in bahrain or the situation in guatemala. the epp group has now also asked for the situation in camp ashraf to be put on the agenda. i must now clarify by asking you what you want: the situation in bahrain, the situation in guatemala or the situation in camp ashraf. i call for a vote in the order in which the motions have been received, i.e. first on the situation in bahrain:
the conference of presidents had put before me two proposals for the agenda which we would have had to vote on controversially anyway. one was bahrain, the other was guatemala. now we get a more advanced proposal: ashraf. i have to make a decision now, what form we're going to take. both possibilities exist: i can now put the vote in the order in which it was received, i.e. first call bahrain and then call guatemala and then call ashraf, or i can put the proposal which goes the furthest, i.e. the one which was received last, i.e. the one in ashraf, to the vote. i do not think it is possible to have a qualitative debate on the most urgent problem at this time. so i have to decide on a course of action. and the procedure in such cases is that we vote on the receipt of the motions. i'm sorry, it's standard procedure that we vote on time input. no, mrs mcguinness, i am sorry, i cannot allow any more debate on this.
mrs mcguinness! i just decided that! we have two proposals from the conference of presidents and now a group which is also asking for ashraf. i'm putting ashraf on the ballot, i'm not opposed to it. i accept your motion and put it to the vote. but i have to formalize the vote in some way, and i think that can only be done by agreeing that we will vote on the motions as they come in. what we can also do is choose between bahrain and guatemala and put ashraf on the agenda as well - that's been done in the past years. but if you want to stick to three human rights issues, we'll stick to them. so i will start with bahrain: parliament accepts the proposal. that leaves the other two issues. i'm really sorry about that.
i would like to thank mr swoboda. i am obliged as president of this house to apply the rules of procedure, even if i have to do so against world socialism. the rules of procedure expressly provide that motions may be tabled one hour before the beginning of the sitting. i propose that we change the rules of procedure. it is also easier for me to decide on border cases where the political will is still breaking on monday, which should not fail to meet the rules of procedure. i take note of your proposal and instruct the committee on the rules of procedure to adopt a regulation to that effect. we ask the committee on the rules of procedure to submit the relevant proposals in due course.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sometimes a memory isn't so bad. we had a wonderful arrangement where we would vote on all this on tuesday morning. that was then abolished by the rules committee and this house. you could just go back to the old system, which was wonderful!
i'm not going to tell you. i shall also inform the committee on the rules of procedure. (the agenda is therefore adopted.) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. tomorrow we will be voting on two regulations which do not protect the citizens of the eu, but rather help them in a very concrete way. the main aim is to provide clear property regulation for 16 million international couples in europe. we want to give citizens legal certainty and effective access to the courts. property rights are of great importance to everyone. it regulates the distribution of wealth among partners deeply into the privacy of citizens. the following questions arise, for example: who gets the house in a divorce, according to which divorce law, if the spouses do not have the same nationality? what happens to a joint bank account when a spouse dies? how are these things handled if both spouses, although of the same nationality, have property or a bank account abroad? in 2007, just over one in seven eu marriages was between spouses from more than one member state, and just over one in seven marriages and divorces were between spouses from more than one member state. in total, there were approximately 637 000 cases of foreign-related marriages ending in divorce or death. with mobility increasing, more couples will be affected in the future. in all these cases, there are difficult legal issues to resolve: which court has jurisdiction? what is the applicable law? and are court judgments recognised and enforced in another member state? the existing law of the member states on property is very different, as are the rules of jurisdiction. in the worst case scenario, the couples may have two conflicting supreme court decisions that they can't do anything about. especially in the case of larger fortunes, this can lead to a race to the courthouse, which is the most hoped-for. this is because the faster or better advised partner can thus secure the application of the right of property that is advantageous to him. this is an unacceptable situation for me. in addition, there is a significant overall legal uncertainty and thus a cost risk. we have found a satisfactory solution for the eu citizens concerned by harmonizing procedural law. the negotiations within the group in the house and also the informal negotiations with the council - first with poland, then with denmark, cyprus, ireland and now also with lithuania - have shown that there is broad consensus in principle on the objectives and measures of the regulation. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks for the broad support of all the relevant groups. in the negotiations, we were able to work together to ensure that the concept of marriage remained neutral. it was very controversial. the term covers in at least seven member states same-sex partners as well as partners of different sexes. i have therefore proposed that this be made clear by rewording. these regulations do not therefore either by the back door interfere with the substantive family law of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it has put forward two separate proposals, one for marriage and the other for registered partnerships. the commission explained that the rights of registered partnerships were somewhat more diverse and that two pieces of legislation were more practical and politically more enforceable. my main criticism was that the proposal for registered partnerships does not allow for a choice of law. the commission has decided that only marriages should be able to exercise their right to choose the law under which they are to be registered. this is clearly contrary to the principle of equality under article 20 and the principle of non-discrimination under article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the opinion of the european agency for fundamental rights which i have obtained on this question is clear. it concludes that there is no adequate justification for the circumvention of the choice of law of registered partnerships. as a liberal jurist, i am therefore particularly concerned that registered partnerships should also be able to choose freely the law applicable to their estate, and i hope that we will vote in this spirit tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on legal affairs (juri) for the work done on these important legislative proposals. it is true that we have been waiting too long for clear rules in relation to matrimonial property regimes and property consequences of registered partnerships. currently, as the rapporteur rightly said, there are 16 million international couples, and it is estimated that over eur 460 million is at stake each year should these couples separate through divorce or bereavement. however, the rules on property rights of international couples are very complex and very difficult to interpret. the proposed regulations provide a unique opportunity to show that europe is taking action to make life easier for citizens in difficult human and legal situations. i am aware that matrimonial property regimes and property consequences of registered partnerships are sensitive areas which are intrinsically linked to national policies on family protection and judicial systems, and that there are considerable differences between the national laws. they were, however, identified by the council as a priority area for union action back in 2000 in the context of mutual recognition programmes. the proposals are a logical step forward in terms of implementing the principle of mutual recognition in the sphere of family law. the proposals supplement existing international private law rules. we have the long-standing brussels iia regulation on the jurisdiction and recognition of decisions in matrimonial matters; we have the rome iii regulation, which sets out the rules determining the law applicable to divorce or legal separation as regards the personal consequences of dissolving a marriage; and we have the new regulation on succession, which also covers jurisdiction, applicable law and free circulation of decisions and authentic instruments. i welcome the fact that the two reports maintain the main policy objectives of the commission proposal: property consequences of the couple should be governed by one single applicable law; proceedings in the event of succession, divorce or dissolution should be consolidated as far as possible before the courts of the same member state; and there should be free movement of court decisions and authentic instruments in europe. i welcome the improvements to the text of the proposed regulations, thanks to the rapporteur, who insisted in particular on aligning the proposals to the succession regulation that had recently been adopted and clarifying the scope of the proposed regulation by excluding, in the case of divorce, questions of entitlement to transfer or adjustment of rights to retirement or disability pensions accrued during marriage. as far as property consequences of registered partnerships are concerned, and taking into consideration the prospect for agreement within the council, the commission could be prepared to be flexible on the introduction of a limited choice of law, as proposed by the rapporteur. on other points, the commission has reservations. the amendment proposed on choice-of-court agreements may be too broad and would undermine the overall objective of consolidation of jurisdiction. the commission cannot support the proposed definition of habitual residence; this notion exists in other instruments in family law without any formal definition being given, and national authorities apply it without any major difficulties. the commission prefers the court of justice to provide guidance on the interpretation of this notion. the commission cannot support the amendment concerning the provision on overriding mandatory rules, which, in its opinion, blurs the distinction with the public policy provision. the commission is also not convinced by the amendments concerning the law applicable to the property consequences of registered partners in the absence of choice, as it seems to undermine the key objective of applying one predictable applicable law to the whole property of the couple. parliament’s resolutions on which you will vote tomorrow are an important step towards the adoption of the two regulations. i would like again to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and express my thanks for the excellent cooperation with the commission on these proposals.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. the jungle of paragraphs we have in international private law is really a challenge to the citizens of the european union, especially when it comes to protecting their rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my colleague michael cashman, who unfortunately is unable to be here today and who has worked in the area of property law and registered partnerships, and i agree absolutely that there should be no discrimination between spouses and registered partnerships. we have also made it clear in the libe committee that we do not want this distinction, there is no reason for it. and mrs. thein said the same thing. it is very important to us that when decisions are taken in this area, the choice of law made is an informed choice, that citizens also know what the consequences of their choice are and that they also have all the information, i.e. informed consent is in our view the most important thing in this area. what we also welcome in the commission's proposal, both michael cashman and myself, is that married couples can agree to change the law applicable to matrimonial property regimes during the marriage, and also retroactively. this is also important because the substantive law in the member states is changing, generally becoming more progressive - i hope so - and this should also benefit the partners or spouses. i think that with these regulations, if we could bring them together, we have a good prospect for the future: a small step alongside all the other legislative measures we have recently taken to make life as easy as possible for those citizens who are unfortunately going through a divorce or separation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am glad that we can vote on these two reports tomorrow. we are doing a good and useful service and making life easier for our citizens. in particular, we are also showing that we can do more than ban light bulbs or oil cans. and this coexistence in the single market is faced with new challenges in general. in practice, freedom of movement and mobility will ultimately lead to more multinational marriages and, perhaps, to more corresponding divorces or deaths. i hope that tomorrow these two acts will be on the right track in addressing these uncertainties and will lead to a single area of law in this area as well. there are still too many differences. it is good that we can name the competent court, determine the applicable law and that we do not leave this to the chance and the swiftness of a partner. i am also glad that it does not go too far, that it does not mean that we have to recognise something in a member state that we did not know before. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs alexandra thein, in particular, for her very good and trusting cooperation and the admirable commitment she has shown in this case, and we hope that the result will be excellent in the plenary, as it has been in the legal affairs committee. the legal act and the rapporteur both deserve that.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you in particular for your overwhelming support for civil unions. mrs lichtenberger said the negotiations were difficult. we have nevertheless managed to vote practically unanimously in the legal affairs committee on two abstentions. and i hope that we will be able to vote with such majorities in this house tomorrow, because the commissioner has said that unanimity is required in the council. the european parliament must therefore put pressure on the council to reach agreement on these two dossiers. we shall then have, during this parliamentary term, regulated all matters of inheritance and family law as regards the applicable law, the competent court and the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. i think this is a very great success for the eu, because we have really done something here for the lives of citizens - for the very normal lives of citizens - who are dealing with cross-border issues. and i think we have really reached a very good compromise here. mr stoyanov has mentioned that member states which do not know about the institution of registered partnerships will not be obliged to apply it. that is, if, for example, two german homosexuals live in poland and want to separate there, then they have to do it in germany or elsewhere. that would not be possible in poland, for example. i am particularly sorry that the british are not here, because it would be a great relief for the british citizens who have such extensive holiday properties in spain or elsewhere in the sun. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and i hope, as i said, that we will vote as closely as possible tomorrow.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee and as shadow rapporteur for the greens, i would first of all like to thank commissioner reding and also rapporteur antonescu for their very good work, including the good cooperation, because i believe that we have really achieved a very good result and that it is an important step for the rights of citizens in europe to be able to have uniform legal protection in all eu countries. this is an important first step, and i believe that more steps must follow. the next steps are already ahead of us, such as legal aid. i also believe that we must think about these uniform standards, including in the prosecutor's office, particularly in the area of mutual recognition of measures, for example in the area of arrest warrants and investigative orders. we're on the right track. and now it is up to the member states above all to implement these rights and to ensure that we can take the next steps here in the european parliament and with the commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament. we are once again faced with the challenge of bringing ecology and economics together. unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded in doing so in parliament - in this case. but we know that ecology and economics are not opposites, but that only by combining the two can we achieve a good result for the people of europe. and finally, economic success ensures our income, our standard of living, and also many environmental services that can and must be financed through the economy. the right things at the right time and the reliability of policy - that is how i would describe the concern of my group, the epp. in 2008, we set the mandatory blending requirement for biofuels in transport at 10%. if we now realise that we need to promote second and third generation biofuels more and that the 10% blending target is too high, then we must speak frankly about capping and at the same time safeguard the investments made as a result of our policy. but to decide now for 2017 or 2020 to use a theoretical iluc calculation that underestimates our production in europe, that does not stand up to scientific evaluation by at least two different studies, is not only economically unreasonable, but is also a misappropriation of investment capital. in the form submitted by ifpri, iluc is not a party to any legal action. the commission knows this and is clearly opposed to the use of iluc factors. i share the call for an audit as early as 2015. all scientific knowledge must be included. the plenary has now the choice: to carve out ideologies into laws or to be a reliable and correct partner.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i wanted to ask claude turmes, who had tabled a motion, which unfortunately did not win a majority, where he saw the regional reference. i would like to ask him how he feels about looking at the region where things are bad, and hiring people to do things better. because if we take this as it is proposed, we can already say that by 2020 nothing has changed. and on reliability, dear bas eickhout, you yourself first broke that reliability by bringing 2017 into play in the counting of the year beyond 2020. so we're even on that.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i thank you for the many suggestions and comments which we share and which are already very comprehensively set out in the report as reflections and demands. i would like to make two brief points. if mr buzek's report refers to gas prices and rejects the oil price index, you are running into open doors. that's our position, and we're working on it. the oil price index is history. it was the time in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s when people were told that they would get warm homes and that gas would be more environmentally friendly. the oil price index has provided the assurance that costs will not rise. we believe that gas needs to become its own product in its own market, and we're working on that. first, by diversifying. the russian partners love the oil price index and long-term contracts. but what is clear is that these contracts are based on freedom of contract and bear two signatures - none of the commission's. there's always a seller and a buyer. the rule of law is based on the principle that pacta sunt servanda. when a gas company signs a gas supply contract with gazprom, guarantees a price, signs a price index, this is its free decision, as with any other contract. we have now, however, taken the most serious step and brought infringement proceedings against the gas industry and against gazprom. we are currently investigating whether these oil price index contracts violate our internal market and competition laws. i can tell you that in all the talks in moscow this is considered a relatively aggressive attack on our side. we'll continue it and complete it. we will then report to parliament on the legal analysis and whether something can be done about this oil price index in current long-term contracts, but on a rule of law basis. in parallel, the companies have carried out price renegotiations, partly on the grounds that the business base had disappeared, partly successfully, partly still open. in addition, we want to bring about competition in norway, algeria, the southern corridor, azerbaijan through lng gas and terminals. our connecting europe strategy - we will present our strategic pipelines in october - will bring additional momentum to this competition. this is not your idea. we have been working for years, step by step and with success, to make sure that the price of gas is no longer tied to the price of oil, but is pivoted in the world market and that supply and demand, and perhaps spot markets and exchanges, can reduce the gap between gas in the united states and other countries. perhaps a spicy touch will be added. my projection is that the americans will export shale gas in 2016. (interruption by mr turmes) i know it! then, mr turmes, you will have to decide in rotterdam whether you will accept shale gas because it is cheap or whether you will then be more concerned with environmental policy in the united states. if you want global competition and a global market, you cannot pick your raisins and ignore everything else. you asked my colleague almunia and myself why we are taking action now. and the reasons are simple and clear: we are taking action and examining the german network charge regulation for aid purposes and we are preparing a decision on whether to examine the german eeg. why would you do that? because the commission's mailbox contains complaints from consumer centres in germany, from public utilities in germany, from network operators in germany, from german citizens and, among others, from the dutch industry, which says that the gross price of electricity in germany is higher than in the netherlands, but with reductions and exemptions from network charges and from the requirement for renewable energy. this is relevant to aid, at least at first sight. if we don't take the exams, we'll be breaking our oath. a decision can only be taken after the examination. secondly, the commission has the task, on the basis of european law - on the basis of your law - of examining aid of any kind in a single market for all products and services. this means that, as a rule, aid is not sustainable. that's the rule. interventions, subsidies are contrary to the level playing field. the commission therefore has general aid schemes and specific aid schemes and guidelines for certain specific segments. for example, there have been guidelines for environmental aid for years, for environmental subsidies. they're gonna expire next summer. the commission therefore needs to prepare a legal framework for environmental and energy aid, and we are working on that now. it's being prepared in a very quiet way. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in addition, we have in our mailboxes requests, preliminary inquiries and draft legislation on a raw basis from london, from paris, from prague, from the baltic states, who would like us to notify them of feed-in tariffs, guaranteed purchase prices, storage prices for nuclear power. if we do nothing, they go their own way, make their own law, then we'll have to go to court. we do not want aid, but we are currently examining whether there is a sensible legal framework on the limits and possibilities of aid-related factors. we're just doing our duty here. i ask you to trust me and my colleague almunia. when a socialist and a christian democrat work together, they usually get a job that a green can accept.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 september 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value for men and women by mr gustafsson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000078/2013 b7-0218/2013) (2013/2678(rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european steel industry is in a situation which threatens its very existence: it is no longer able to take part in the constant increase in production throughout the world. it is stagnating because stainless steel is only an intermediate material in the industrial value chain and 40% of european consumption is now imported from asia. we should make the steel industry the pilot for the reindustrialisation of europe. the commission's stability action programme of june 2013 provides the appropriate framework. the challenge is to adapt industrial structures without losing skills, capacity and market power. the commission's 'high level group on steel' must allow representatives of the european parliament and the european social partners to participate in the implementation of the action programme. the examination of possible further mergers of european steel producers by the european competition authorities must be accompanied by appropriate policy guidance. this includes the european antitrust laws. finally, i would draw attention to the call made to the european ombudsman by the european trade union confederation on 2 september, which objected to the commission's failure to act on the matter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very warmly. we have worked very well together, we have achieved a good result and we have also found a large majority for this report in the committee. the own-initiative report is a response to the commission communication on research and innovation for the future of mobility in europe: developing a european strategy for transport technology. we all agreed that the system of transport innovation that we have had up to now is inadequate and needs to be improved. the aim of the report is to align eu research and innovation policy with eu objectives namely climate and environmental protection . to do that, we need to use resources effectively. for example, we don't want to have duplicate research that happens a lot. we want to reduce bureaucracy, of course, so that it is easier for small and mediumsized enterprises to access european funds, and we want to strengthen crossborder projects. if we look at the railway system in europe, for example, it is the purest patchwork. and the gaps are exactly where the boundaries are. in other words, the european added value we have been working towards for 20 years is still a long way off. and of course, we need a comprehensive understanding of innovation. it's not just about technological innovation, it's about changing people's behaviour. and the fact that this is possible is that car ownership is not as important as it was in the '50s or '60s, but the use of the car is more important. how can we achieve all this? so technology-neutral policies and outcomes count across the entire life cycle? we cannot choose just one small segment, for example, in electric mobility. the electric car only has an advantage if the whole life cycle is better than that of the existing means of transport. the production, use and recycling must be seen as a whole, and we are still far behind the conventional cars in electric cars. so we all agreed and said that technology neutrality is important. we're interested in the outcome, not how we get there, because i'm not an engineer, and many of the shadow reporters are not engineers either. the eu institutions must also set an example. the mobility service itself must also be made more sustainable. of course, this can be achieved by using cars that are less noisy and less polluting. we want to have a common database in the eu of research projects and results, for the sake of transparency and efficiency. the integration of transport modes, from pedestrians to cyclists and public transport to automobiles, is also important. all of this goes together, and not just looking from a to b. the key is to have a door-to-door solution. we need to increase efficiency. we had a broad consensus that safety and health have been under-reported so far - that needs to become more important. and i'm especially pleased that we have a broad consensus on noise reduction, which was not the case two or three years ago. because we know that the railways - the green railways - have no future in europe unless they solve the noise problem. initial studies show that this is possible. for example, it has been found that if we retrofit the k-soles in 80% of freight wagons in europe, it will cost about 2 billion euros, and the perceived noise will be reduced by half. on the other hand, we have 10 billion euros for noise barriers. this means that if we tackle noise at the source, we can do it more efficiently, faster and cheaper. a win-win situation and we want to continue to support this with this report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i am really very pleased to be participating in this important debate on behalf of the council. this debate is about credit agreements relating to the residential property directive, which in our view is a very important document. let us remind ourselves that, historically, the crisis in 2007-2008 started from the debacle in the subprime markets of mortgage credits in the united states. this topic, i would say, was a red line during all the years of the crisis. this is really the problem we should take a view on when resolving and preventing similar crises in the future. the main diagnosis that can be made today was that ill-informed and often vulnerable consumers were encouraged to take excessive risks. we have seen the results. the results have been very, very dangerous for the whole financial market but also, personally, for those people, because there were huge numbers of personal tragedies: of people who were evicted from their houses just for being incapable of paying their mortgages. we have to do something about that. and we have done something. we have on our tables this proposal for a directive which would mean a new stage in european policies on mortgage credits. this directive should prevent such excesses and should lead to responsible lending. consumers should, in the first place, get the protection they deserve. they will be better informed, because better information is the first step in getting consumers to take the right steps and the right action when they decide to change something in their lives. but we have also, as regards mortgage providers, enhanced competition and we are coping with the fragmentation of the mortgage credit market. the mortgage credit market is now absolutely fragmented in the european union. we actually have 28 markets. we should unite them in order for competition to increase. one of the very important novel means proposed is a european passport for mortgage credit providers, which will give them the possibility to act europe-wide. the difficult work has been done, so i must thank the rapporteur, mr sánchez, and also all the other members who were involved in this work. i must also thank the previous irish presidency for the huge work which has been done and, finally, i must thank the commission, which also participated in this activity. we have a great result on our tables. we could adopt this proposal at first reading, and the life of this document could then start. but for this we need one technical issue to be resolved: the issue of the joint political declaration of 27 october 2011 on explanatory documents. this issue will be discussed during this debate today. as this is the last remaining issue, i would ask members to resolve it so that we can proceed at first reading with a final result on this directive. we must deliver for our people, for our citizens. i look forward to listening to this very important debate.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that taking out a mortgage on a citizen's life, on a family's life, is one of the most important and most burdensome commitments that can exist. this proposal, which i put forward almost two years ago now, has a dual purpose: to achieve an integrated mortgage market rather than having 28 different and juxtaposed regulatory frameworks, and to prevent irresponsible lending and borrowing behaviour. in short, in europe, to protect consumers and citizens. i am very pleased that the co-legislators - minister šadžius and the european parliament - have been able to work together in a compromise effort to achieve this consumer protection. i would like to begin by thanking mr antolín sánchez presedo, who has done a very good job on this very constructive text, and mr andreas schwab, for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and mrs alexandra thein, for the committee on legal affairs, the fictitious rapporteurs who are here today (alfredo pallone, philippe de backer, sven giegold, vicky ford and nikolaos chountis). it was a collective effort on your part - i can attest to that - that led to this significant advance in the protection of borrowers. minister šadžius recalled the tragedy of the subprime crisis in the united states. europe itself has not been spared such risks or crises. that is why this text is justified, because it creates this single market in mortgage credit and guarantees this better protection for consumers. i shall be wire-posting a few key points from this directive. first, it introduces new requirements for the solvency test before mortgage credit is granted. secondly, it introduces the requirement for those who provide credit to have clear, standardised information, a comparison facility for consumers. thirdly, it introduces specific provisions for certain types of loan which are more 'risky', such as variable rate loans and, as mr sánchez presedo said, loans in foreign currencies. finally, it introduces harmonised rules and a passport for credit intermediaries. this is where we are building this single credit market together: by reducing the barriers that prevent - we all have examples around us - consumers, lenders and intermediaries from taking or offering a loan in a country other than their own. all these elements are part of consumer protection and also of better competition between providers and offers for the benefit of lenders, intermediaries of course, but also and above all consumers. i would like to remind the house once again and say to the outside world that parliament has not only contributed to this text but has improved it, as is very often the case. for example, mr rapporteur, on tied sales or on the reasonable tolerance which the lender must show in the event of default by the borrower. we have therefore with this text one of the examples - which i like as much as you, ladies and gentlemen - of this concrete europe, of this europe of citizens close to the people, to their problems, their difficulties or to the elements of their daily lives. there is one last point which is still outstanding - and you all know it - and that is the question of explanatory documents and whether they should be published in a recital or in an article. i know the importance of this issue and the sensitivity of parliament. i have a sympathetic and understanding attitude towards parliament's position. i think that we must find a solution to this problem. this cannot be an obstacle to preventing or delaying the adoption of this text, which is expected to protect consumers. with the sympathy i have for parliament's position, as commissioner i am prepared - i say this to the minister - to contribute to an agreement on this matter in the next few hours, but we must get the text into place as quickly as possible.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur for enhanced cooperation and the work of the committee on the internal market, i should like to begin by thanking my predecessor, mr kurt lechner, who pushed this dossier through the committee and obtained a large majority which in the end was somewhat different from what the leading economic committee had decided. there is a lot to say about the details of this directive, but i will not be able to say it in a minute. i would therefore like to focus on three main points. i am sure that my colleague alfredo pallone will say a few things. this part of european regulation is undoubtedly an important step forward in the wake of the lehman collapse to ensure that the events that have occurred in a few member states in the mortgage markets are reversed and that consumers in the future are better informed about the risks and responsibilities they take when taking out a home loan. however, it must be noted that, although these developments have not taken place in all the member states of the european union, certain factors related to national specificities have also played a role. the fact that credit bubbles have occurred in some member states is not something that consumers have caused, but something that was also largely controlled by politics. i therefore believe that we need more transparency in the home building markets and that awareness needs to be raised with this directive. secondly, i think that we have, of course, disappointed some of the expectations. some had hoped that the fixed interest rate model, the early repayment of debt or even the compulsory sale would be abolished. all this was of course not economically feasible. i therefore believe that mr sánchez presedo has finally agreed to a good compromise which will enable us to achieve much of what consumers can expect in the coming years. but i would like to say something about the presidency. we had two trilogues on the subject and two trilogues on the procedure, and the procedure is still not completed! i would therefore be very pleased, mr minister, if the council could do its part to help us to resolve this deadlock in the procedure as quickly as possible, because it really is all about details!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the juri committee drew up an opinion which was adopted by a very large majority. we believe that this directive will of course do nothing to change the fate of forced auctions, and the tragic fate that has befallen southern europe in particular. we are also of the opinion that the directive does not regulate what it should regulate. the fact is that we should have been guided by the purpose of credit and tried to create a single market for commercial property loans before we started to apply such regulations to 'young families with small children'. the fact that this is regulated in a uniform way is certainly a good thing, but on the other hand - and i say this as a notary - the young family with small children who are buying their first piece of land is only protected if they can actually be given oral advice in person. and it's not going to do that by taking out loans online that are supposedly cheap, possibly with currency risk that it can't even see. i am not in favour of creating a single market for housing loans here - we are simply not there yet in europe. we're way off target here.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am glad that we can show the public that we are doing more to combat insider trading and market abuse in the context of financial market regulation. i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking up the suggestions made by the legal affairs committee, on which she also sits, that we have different thresholds for the disclosure of insider dealing, taking into account the different sizes of exchanges but also the different sizes of income, that we continue to take into account the different legal traditions by not naming and shaming and thereby protecting the privacy of non-participants. and i hope that we're right about the definition of insider information and that the practice can deal with that and with the criminality of the experiment in the future, and we've regulated that properly. i think that this is really a great success in the context of financial market regulation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i remember a time when insider trading and market abuse were more of a chivalrous offense than a real crime. and at the same time, both of these offenses have been dealt with harshly in the united states. it was only in 2003 that the european union put forward a directive against insider trading and market abuse. since then, however, circumstances have changed dramatically. we have a variety of trading platforms today, and we have financial instruments today that were not even known ten years ago. it is therefore right and important that the european parliament should have dealt with this subject on the basis of a proposal from the commission. and i think that what has been negotiated between parliament and the council can be seen. it's a good proposal that will really get us ahead. we now have a uniform definition of insider trading. the regulatory authorities are given more powers: they can take action not only against companies but also against individuals, up to a lifetime ban from work. thirdly, and this is very important, not only financial instruments but also the manipulation of indices, including the price fixing of commodities such as oil and gas, are punished. and the last positive thing to note is that whistleblowers are protected and can actually do their job without worrying about professional or personal disadvantages. despite all this, there is still work to be done. i believe that we are not finished with the issue of cross-border and cross-market surveillance and surveillance, and that we have to work further. i also believe that if we limit legal insider trading to eur 5 000 or eur 20 000, we have not reached the final objective, but we must be careful to see how this develops in the future. and actually, market capitalization is the better base because it's an absolute value. and the last step is that we simply have to take note that there are 28 different criminal laws in europe. in this respect, the criminal prosecution of market manipulation will continue to vary. nevertheless, it is a good step into the future, on which we can build.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is well aware of the importance and sensitivity of this file and, in particular, of the two mechanisms containing the amendment proposal – suspension and reciprocity – which are essential to maintaining the credibility and efficiency of the common visa policy and solidarity between the members. the commission has worked tirelessly with the presidencies and parliament in order to obtain a compromise leading to efficient and legally sound mechanisms. i must thank in particular mr díaz de mera for his tremendous effort in reaching a compromise, in what has been a long and complex negotiation, but one in which a cooperative spirit has always been maintained between the presidencies, the rapporteur and the shadows, and the commission. i am glad we have been able to finalise these long negotiations. the two mechanisms which are the essential element of this amendment were needed in order to have a visa waiver system which is not open to abuse but which also ensures that all eu citizens are treated equally by our third country partners. the suspension mechanisms, in particular, will ensure that we can continue our visa liberalisation negotiations with the knowledge that when the visa-free regime is granted to citizens of a certain third country, this is not a country- or region-specific mechanism, but a general one. we will then have a safety brake that can be triggered to avoid a possible abuse of visa-free travel. this will greatly add to the credibility of our visa system, but i must also tell you that the commission has mixed feelings about the compromise we are debating today. despite the satisfaction that an agreement has finally been found, the commission is disappointed about the form chosen for the reciprocity mechanism. the commission cannot accept the current text on these mechanisms, as we have strong doubts about its legality and effectiveness. let me say a few words on that. as a matter of principle, implementing and delegated acts cannot be used for taking the same decision. it is possible to have both implementing and delegated acts provided for in the same legislative text but for different types of mechanisms, which is not the case here. in the compromise, during a period of two years any decision would be taken through an implementing act, but after two years the procedure would switch to delegated acts. on this the commission cannot agree. moreover, the nature of the measure does not allow for the use of delegated acts. the reciprocity mechanism concerns a specific country whose citizens do not need a visa to visit the eu and which imposes a visa obligation on the citizens of one or more eu member states. the measure left to the commission consists of temporarily derogating from the regulation with regard to that individual third country. this is a concrete and specific individual situation, not a measure for general application as the treaty requires for a delegated act. and beyond matters of form, the political objective – to have a more efficient reciprocity mechanism – has not been reached. the current compromise will not be efficient, as during the first two years the commission can only adopt an implementing decision suspending the visa waiver for certain categories of citizens of the third country in question, such as diplomatic and service passport holders. for this reason, in anticipation of the vote on thursday and the subsequent acts by the council, i need to make the following formal statement on behalf of the commission: ‘the commission welcomes the adoption by the european parliament and the council of its proposal amending regulation no 539/2001 aiming at enhancing the credibility of the common visa policy and ensuring more solidarity amongst member states. however, the commission regrets that the powers conferred on the commission with regard to the revised reciprocity mechanism are, in the opinion of the commission, not in compliance with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission therefore reserves the right to make use of the remedies available under the treaty with a view to having this point clarified by the court of justice.’
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this regulation, let us be frank, is changing the nature of the eu's visa policy. what do i mean? i think that visa policy is becoming a blackmailing tool. a blackmailing tool - in this case - especially against the western balkans. and if we are strengthening anything, it is solidarity among the rich countries, for example germany and austria. the suspension mechanism, the suspension of the visa-free regime, is a 'lex roma', let us say it clearly. this is the subject of many questions and is already leading to the fact that roma, or people who look like them, are stopped and sent back at the borders of serbia without any reason, that bus operators do not allow roma to board long-distance buses without any reason, that a law has been passed in macedonia that leads to the criminalization of asylum seekers. travel bans, passport withdrawals and exit bans are already the consequences before we have this regulation, and afterwards it will be much worse. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and i ask you, have you ever been to one of these countries? i watched this in serbia. people have lived in a dump, not because roma like to live in dumps, but because their homes in the cities have been bulldozed. that's the way it is. we are dealing with racial profiling here, we are dealing with contempt for humanity here. and it annoys me that the eu is playing along with this regulation. i believe that the eu is doing its human rights work. i think that is bad and that naturally encourages the right wing of this house, which then cheers at such questions: 'thank you eu! ' this is how far we've come. i can only say that we must not, under any circumstances, accept this regulation, it must be rejected!
i did not see how that was a point of order, but we have understood the political reason.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm looking at this in a very positive light. if we have a european union, then we need european rules on how we enforce this, of course, in the case of a european arrest warrant. the fact that there were major differences of opinion between the groups and the council and commission shows how important the debate was. if you read this, it's a given that you have a right to legal counsel at the first police interview. we all know that once you are in a country where your mother tongue is not spoken, it is difficult to pass a simple traffic check. so legal counsel is absolutely necessary. we need to have a confidential meeting with the legal counsel. it is necessary that you can inform your family members or a trusted person, and of course that the embassy learns that you have problems. and if these self-evident facts are implemented, then the european arrest warrant will of course also find much greater acceptance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ep and council directive on credit agreements for residential property is a very sensitive subject and i am glad that the european parliament is dealing with it, and i am also glad that we have postponed the final vote because we still have to clarify to whom and in what way documents, which are, after all, confidential, are to be submitted. we should nevertheless take this problem of the housing loan agreement very seriously, because we have learned, particularly in the wake of the financial crisis, that unfavourable contracts, bad advice or so-called pairings that have been carried out can also bring european union citizens to the edge of their existence. that is why this is an extremely important report and we should continue to follow it and above all to pay attention to its implications.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand the message of the report and i understand the sentiment: it is ultimately about a bit of fairness in the stock market, including insider trading. but this is a report that says, 're-submit.' we should examine very carefully whether we are actually achieving what we want and need to achieve. i would simply ask the relevant colleagues and the committee to look at the problem again in due course, because i believe that we have a very long way to go and it can only be a first step in the right direction.
in writing. - by our requests for separate and distinct votes on the fox report on online gambling in the internal market, my group, alde, has tried to remove the last contradictions, redundancies and ambiguities in the text. in particular, we voted to delete a passage in paragraph 19 which could be interpreted as a call for blocking internet sites. i'm glad we got that cleared up. i have recommended to my group that, regardless of the outcome of the vote, we should vote for the fox report today because, despite its weaknesses, it contains many good ideas. in particular, we have called for european minimum requirements for gambling operators to better protect consumers across borders, and for concrete measures to put an end to illegal operators. the european parliament also called on the member states to ensure that their gambling legislation complies with european law. if they do not, the commission is obliged to bring actions before the european court of justice. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again on behalf of my group for his good cooperation.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am honoured to present to you today the council’s position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, the first annual budget under the new multiannual financial framework. this position was adopted by the council on 2 september 2013. from the very outset, i would like to assure you that the council is ready to work with both parliament and the commission in the coming weeks and months to secure agreement on a realistic and balanced budget for 2014. close and efficient cooperation is necessary to this end. the council, for its part, is ready to work constructively and in a spirit of compromise. i am very glad to note that the budgetary trialogue which took place on 3 september was positive and encouraging. i was particularly glad to note that we all – the european parliament and the council – agree on the high priority we attach to programmes and actions supporting employment and growth. let me emphasise in this respect that the council generally accepts the amounts proposed by the commission in the draft budget for 2014 for all operational expenditure relating to programmes under the new multiannual financial framework. i would point out that all reductions proposed in the council position are based on a detailed analysis of the probable implementation of the individual programmes and actions concerned and that no general approach or unjustified cuts have been applied. the council’s position on the first draft annual budget under the new multiannual financial framework provides, in absolute figures, for eur 142.2 billion in commitments and eur 135 billion in payments. it was supported by a large majority of the member states. i would like to draw your attention to three important elements that form the basis of the council’s position. firstly, the council decided to give priority to the programmes and actions designed to put european back on the track of sustainable and inclusive growth and jobs, including for specified policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, erasmus and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and to boost the financing of the economy. secondly, the council took into account the ongoing efforts by member states to consolidate their national budgets. particular emphasis was placed on keeping administrative expenditure under control, in line with member states’ domestic policy, thereby applying sound financial management. thirdly, the council proposed to leave sufficient margins under the ceilings in the multiannual financial framework to be able to cope with unforeseen situations. i will now briefly set out the main elements of the council’s position under each of the headings and subheadings of the multiannual financial framework, starting with heading 1, smart and inclusive growth. the council attaches particular importance to this heading as it corresponds to an area where eu action has significant added value, playing a key role in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, especially in research, competitiveness, entrepreneurship and innovation. under subheading 1a, competitiveness for growth and jobs, the council supports the measures to promote the competitiveness of smes, in particular, and to further investment in education and human skills through the erasmus for all programme. the reduction applied to this subheading concentrates on large infrastructure projects and is based on expected absorption capacities and also on the completion of previous programmes and support expenditure. the reduction applied by the council to large projects such as iter (the international thermonuclear experimental reactor) and the trans-european networks is in line with the approach recently suggested by the commission to frontload appropriations for horizon 2020, erasmus and cosme for the first years of the new multiannual financial framework and to offset this frontloading by postponing certain expenditure on large projects to later years. the council has also sought to secure an adequate level of payment appropriations for structural actions. it therefore agreed that under subheading 1b, economic, social and territorial cohesion, payment appropriations should grow by 7.5% as against 2013. in accordance with the european council conclusions of 27-28 june, the allocation of eur 6 billion to the youth employment initiative will allow the first disbursements to be made to beneficiaries in eu regions experiencing high youth unemployment rates from january 2014. under heading 2, sustainable growth and national resources, the council proposes to stabilise the level of appropriations as against 2013. nevertheless, it agrees to a slight increase, of 0.27%, in the appropriations for market-related expenditure and direct payments under the european agricultural guarantee fund. the reductions applied to this heading are distributed between the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. they are based on the latest information available and are subject to revision following the presentation by the commission of its traditional letter of amendment in the autumn. under heading 3, security and citizenship, the council supports modest reductions to both commitment and payment appropriations, taking into account realistic absorption capacities. save for support expenditure, the council backs the appropriations proposed by the commission in relation to asylum and migration, initiatives in the fields of external borders, justice, internal security, public health and consumer protection. under heading 4, global europe, the council sets commitment and payment appropriations at a lower level than that proposed by the commission, in order better to reflect past and current budget implementation and to take into account realistic absorption capacities. this heading, together with subheadings 1a and 1b and heading 2, is subject to a statement on payment appropriations in which the council invites the commission to submit a draft amending budget if payment appropriations in 2014 are insufficient to cover expenditure under the headings in question. under heading 5, administration, the council acknowledges the efforts made by the eu institutions to limit increases in their respective budget estimates, including through the reduction of staff numbers in line with the 5% target over the period 2013-2017. nevertheless, further potential savings have been identified. the council proposes to remove the appropriations included in the institutions’ estimates related to salary adjustments in 2011 and 2012 because it considers that it is not for the eu institutions to anticipate the court of justice ruling on this issue. a similar approach was adopted in relation to all decentralised agencies, where the council supports comparable reductions in both commitment and payment appropriations in proportion to the number of staff, self-financed posts excepted. the council, as usual, did not modify the european parliament’s section of the budget. lastly, under heading 6, compensation, the council agrees with the level of appropriations proposed by the commission. i am convinced that the council’s position on the draft budget for 2014 represents the necessary balance between the need to take account of the difficult economic situation in member states and the need to secure adequate appropriations in the eu budget to support new programmes and actions. the promotion of growth and fiscal consolidation are mutually reinforcing. we all agree on the importance and added value of programmes and actions carried out at european level, and everybody – including the ministers of finance – supports the appropriate financing. but we are all bound by the objectives of budgetary discipline and the national targets of bringing down government debts and deficits. against that background each additional euro in the eu budget weighs heavily on national budgets. this is a constraint which affects us all. we therefore have to prioritise and find the right balance, ensuring on the one hand the timely implementation of the agreed programmes and actions whilst, on the other hand, limiting our national budget deficits to the required levels. i count on your comprehension and support in this respect. the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 will play a crucial role in supporting the economy by acting as a catalyst for growth and jobs and leveraging productive and human-capital investments. i very much hope that this common goal will guide us in our discussions over the next few months as we seek to reach an agreement on the budget for 2014.
member of the commission. − mr president, minister, honourable members, the session today is for me the second opportunity after our trialogue to express my deep concern with the council’s reading of the budget proposal for 2014. when presenting the draft for 2014 our message was clear. it cannot this time be ‘business as usual’, for many reasons. we were doing it in the specific context of the advanced negotiations on the next mff period and later than usual – that is in june – to make a more stable point of reference for the draft budget. first of all, however, already in our proposal – due to the low ceilings of the starting period of the next financial perspective – our proposal was, in terms of commitments, 6% less or eur 9.1 billion less than we needed for this year and, in terms of payments, eur 8.4 billion less than we needed for 2013. therefore, it cannot be a routine road of cuts, and i am really concerned at the council’s reading going the traditional way of cuts to what is already a very low level for 2014 cutting commitments by eur 240 million and payments by over eur 1 billion. what is more, i cannot detect too much logic in the reading or in the way the cuts were made, in the context of all the promises made to use all our available tools to reinforce growth and competitiveness in europe. there is a weak recovery this year. therefore i cannot understand the cuts in structural funding because this is an instrument, the instrument to promote growth and competitiveness. the major cuts by volume are in the heading which compromises real instruments for small and medium-sized companies, like cosme, and for research and development, horizon 2020. also what was reduced is the administrative support expenditure for research and infrastructure in a way that could be detrimental to the implementation of these programmes. in the external actions, given what we know about what is around europe – syria for example – again the cuts for support expenditure could hinder the implementation of our obligations vis-à-vis the external world. i cannot accept the justification that this is being done because we need margins for so-called flexibilities and unexpected developments through 2014. it is in the nature or flexibilities of special instruments to mobilise them above the ceiling and not within the ceiling, so this is not the right justification for leaving the margins for the next year. this continuous effort to reduce what is already reduced and probably not fully satisfying the needs of 2014 is really worrying, as we know what is the life cycle of major projects in europe. they are mature now and we need resources to pay the bills coming from the member states. hopefully our joint meeting on payments could be the opportunity to discuss the developments in payments reflecting the maturity of major projects in europe throughout 2013 and 2014. i am fully in favour of this opportunity to discuss the soundest approach to budgeting at this critical time of fragile recovery in europe. this is a very specific budget, as really 90% of appropriations are either so-called non-differentiated expenditure and payments for old projects; only 10% is for the new programmes of the new financial perspective 2014-2020. as for salary adjustment, yes it is cut but, when the court rules otherwise, it should be restored. as for the agencies, this is again a very strict approach, with a 1% cut in compliance and with the interinstitutional draft agreement saying that all the institutions are obliged to seek reductions by 1% and no one institution is free of that sort of duty. therefore i am asking parliament to take these arguments into account when preparing the reading of the 2014 budget. i am grateful to anne jensen for her efforts to prepare on time the indicative list of pilot project and preparatory actions. that is making our evaluations easier and i hope for really good cooperation in the course of the budgetary procedure. what we need now of course is to deliver amending letters to the draft 2014 budget taking account of our updated knowledge. the first one coming in september is a specific adjustment to the last minute political agreements on the 2014-2020 financial perspective – that is frontloading of cosme, erasmus and horizon 2020, as well some reinforcements for cyprus. the second amending letter should be a routine one on agriculture and fisheries. let us remain optimistic that we can accomplish our task within 21 days of conciliation this time and agree a reasonable budget for 2014.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has been a very important meeting of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think i have heard and i respect that the presidency of the council says that it has analysed the cuts carefully. but i have the impression that in the end the budgetary priority was simply cut because you are having financial problems at home in your own country. and not every cut is the logical one that we would all like to see, which is why i would like to support my colleague anne jensen, who is speaking immediately after me, in advance and express my support here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a number of special situations in the european parliament's budget. these special situations arise from the new legislature, which alone will cause an additional cost of 2.2%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are seeking closer cooperation with the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, but the proposals so far do not contain concrete figures, so i am more inclined to assume that we will not use these concrete figures until the negotiations are finally concluded. overall, the budget of the european parliament will also become a budget of austerity, with no real increase, but a decrease of about 0.3% - excluding the cost of the legislature and the cost of croatia. secondly, i would like to make a statement to the other institutions, particularly on the european external action service, because i am not sure - and i have already said this during the trilogue negotiations - whether the council is really still in agreement with its decision to have a european external action service. the increase of 1.7% for an institution under construction is already a little too small. i am therefore convinced that we must discuss the budget of the european external action service, particularly in the context of security and the debate on - i will quote edward snowden - the security of the lines and the corresponding technical requirements, as well as the subject of the abatement rate. i found that in the other institutions, we didn't really stick to the analysis. i would ask the council very sincerely to engage in a more intensive discussion during the negotiations, because i am a little afraid that the general cuts are not effective. i think we will have to talk about this again in order to have a sensible budget or a sensible budget for the other institutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have just heard from the lithuanian presidency how restrictive the approach to the new financial framework is. in our view - and that is why we will not agree with it - this is a multiannual financial framework which is not sufficiently environmentally oriented, which does too little to combat climate change and which does not really address the major investment issues in the european union. now we have heard that even in the context of this restrictive financial framework, the council is still going to cut back in the 2014 budget, especially on research and development and environmental programmes, more than on traditional agriculture - that is the wrong emphasis! i now come to the open questions concerning the 2013 budget. we are at the end of the current financial period. mr lewandowski has rightly pointed this out. there are many, many open accounts, funds have been raised, there is talk of investments in the member states. we cannot have any interest in the commission breaking its word. the council's unwillingness to actually provide the money for the programmes it has itself decided to implement in the member states is a wrong political decision. at the beginning of the year we had a gap of 11.2 billion euros. it would be fatal if we were to carry a large part of this money into the next year as a deficit. we would thus be depriving ourselves of further possibilities of action. we have now heard that there is a willingness to pay 7.3 billion euros, but that is not enough. the second tranche of eur 3.9 billion must also be made available. my group, the greens, will not vote for any further amendments unless this gap is closed. and i also hope that the majority of the house will not approve an mfr until this issue is resolved.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her good cooperation. thank you very much for this! i think the issue of youth unemployment has really become a top priority. it's been a long time. i know that we have been working on this for a long time and that no one in the member states, in the council, has really taken an interest in it. that's changed because it's been realized that we can't afford to lose an entire generation here. i think it is very good that this report actually focuses on options for action, because that is precisely where we need to act now. we've been talking a lot, now we have to act! and just as the reasons for this youth unemployment are different, so too must the starting points be different. there is no one recipe that will solve the problem. and that includes, of course, the issue of mobility. you should also put a very positive spin on this. we have the great advantage of free movement, especially as the eu! of course, sometimes young people have to be encouraged to go to another country, to another member state, perhaps for a while. but we should really take this as a positive sign and not always see it as a bad alternative, as a last resort. it is a way of showing young people, in the short term, that there is also a chance for the future. the issue of self-employment is also a possibility which should not be completely ruled out from the outset. but what really helps in the long term are really only structural changes in both the workplace and the training sector. and this is where we have to start, because we know very well that although youth unemployment has exploded in recent years with the economic and euro crisis, it was already very high in many countries before that. so we have to go structural here. we must rely on good training and, above all, on the link between theory and practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we hear today is exactly the same as in previous years. here in parliament, but also in the member states. showcase speeches, discussions, "you should", "you should", "you could", but what's really missing are binding actions. it is important to clarify - i have listened to the discussion here - that not all young people without work in europe have no desire to work. if there are no jobs, they won't find any. and mobility from one country to another does not help create jobs any more than self-employment does for all the unemployed young people in europe. that's daydreaming, and that's winking. that's not going far enough. what we finally need is commitment. we must force the member states to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must put money into their hands for short-term measures, for the training of young people and for job creation. we must also provide incentives for the member states. but if this is really not going to help, we need sanctions in the interests of young people! a european regulation, as the commissioner has said. the consequences are much more costly for the member states and for europe as well. that is why we must finally take binding action now!
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank first of all the two rapporteurs and everyone else who participated in this discussion today on youth and youth employment. i believe the issue is really serious. five years ago, with the collapse of lehman brothers, a financial crisis came and it resulted in a crisis of the real economy, of employment, and now we have enormous social imbalances within the european union and, particularly, inside the euro zone, with massive economic, social, political and, i am afraid, also demographic consequences. probably not all these consequences have been fully explored until now. the crisis is the context of the current discussion. we need to find a way out of this crisis which is primarily a question of the right mix of fiscal and monetary policies, but also of repairing the economic and monetary union as ms berès highlighted in her intervention. we need more jobs in europe in order to have more jobs for young people. is it as simple as that? i am afraid it is not. why? because the impact of the crisis has been very uneven across the european union. what it concerns really is groups of the workforce, and it has disproportionately hit the young generation, young workers, and we have to pay attention to that. also, we need a specific focus on youth because, even before the crisis, before the collapse of lehman brothers, there was very high unemployment among young people in some countries like spain, or you can look at the south of italy and many other regions. so we have very serious reasons and every justification, as mr tavares emphasised, for eu-level action against youth unemployment, especially at the end of the current crisis. we have to work hand-in-hand with the member states, which have the final responsibility and many of the instruments in the area of employment policy. but now we have an eu-level flagship project, which is the implementation of the youth guarantee, which combines in a very smart way the stimulus for looking for a job with investment in jobs and skills. it improves the security of employment for the young people who really need this. it is connected with upgrading the education and training systems in member states, which, as for example ms essayah emphasised, is of great importance. it invites the social partners to contribute at national as well as regional levels. it is also connected with the reform of public employment services in countries where this is badly needed. it should build on very important labour market reforms in a number of member states and it should also be supported by shifting taxation away from labour in a very targeted way, as some of you also stressed. these important policy elements which can support the youth guarantee have been discussed in other high level fora, like the g20 recently in moscow, where not only employment ministers but also finance ministers discussed these important instruments. six million euros is not enough, as some of you, including ms anderson, emphasised. but nobody ever said that eur 6 billion would be enough. we always said that the european social fund, in combination with national funds, will be the key source of funding for the youth guarantee, and the new instruments, now frontloaded for the two first years of the first financial period, will be a major top-up in the regions where this is most needed, where the youth unemployment rate is higher than 25 %. we can also rely on the european investment bank, which made very serious commitments before the summer break and i would like to ensure that these commitments are not forgotten after the summer break. unfortunately, nobody in this discussion has so far mentioned the european investment bank, not even those from germany, whereas i think they should, supposedly, play an important role by lending to smes in case they hire young people. micro-finance is important, as ms angelilli indeed emphasised; this has been rolled out with the involvement of the eib group, namely the eif, and we would like to see an even more speedy implementation of the micro-finance facility, reaching countries where it has not yet been used. we link our employment policy and also the employment of young people to industrial policy. i hope mr cofferati will also appreciate this. in several rounds of upgrading the industrial policy of the european commission there has been full coordination between the industrial portfolio and the employment portfolio. we worked with the involvement of others on the quality framework for anticipation, to ensure that the restructuring of industrial enterprises in the future would cost far fewer jobs than in the past and that we would have better support and coordination for forward-looking investment based on innovation. we also link our policies with the digital agenda and, together with vice-president kroes, we work on ict jobs which i believe will benefit many young people in the future. mobility, i believe, is part of the solution. it is a major part of the solution in the european union, where we can do a lot to develop the european labour market, but definitely it is not the only instrument. we cannot simply assume that labour mobility will resolve the employment problems and the imbalances of the european labour market. we have to find ways of local and regional economic development, in order to create local and regional opportunities and jobs. this underlines the importance of our cohesion instruments and of the youth guarantee initiative itself. it is true that it is not only the number of jobs which has suffered as a result of the crisis, but also working conditions in europe. this highlights another element of the youth employment package, which is the quality framework for traineeships. the commission is committed to deliver this before the end of this year. i fully share the view expressed by ms bauer that specific attention has to be paid to the low-skilled and disadvantaged social groups, including people with disabilities or those who belong to ethnic minorities, and this is of course of particular importance when we, together with the member states, are working on the next programming period, and on how to programme the social fund and other financial instruments. where i of course strongly disagree is with the message of mr nuttall, who blamed the eu rules as supposedly a major cause of unemployment. he also blamed eu migrants for the high level of unemployment in certain regions and member states, including his own. i think it should be noted that there are enormous differences between the performance of some countries. it is true that there are, from the point of view of youth unemployment, weak performers like the uk. but there are also strong performers, like germany or austria, and the same eu rules apply to these countries; but of course germany and austria have far fewer opt-outs from the eu rules. i happened to be a student more than two decades ago in the region where mr nuttall comes from and there were already three million unemployed people before the working time directive, before the single market; and it was primarily the consequence of the 1980s thatcherite-period de-industrialisation in the north-west and the north-east. so to blame eu regulations and eu migrants for the failure of national policies, is i believe appalling, and we would need a more serious discussion on these matters, because, indeed, youth unemployment is a very serious problem and the actions which we have proposed need to be implemented in close collaboration with other eu institutions, the member states and the social partners.
the debate is closed. the votes will take place on wednesday 11 september 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. the need for a new, forward-looking strategy for health and safety at work is beyond question. the only thing to keep in mind are the sheer numbers of accidents at work. in 2009, there were still 2.8 million serious accidents at work and 38 000 fatalities across europe. 8.6% of workers also complain of health problems attributable to their work. the enormous cost to health and pension funds of early retirement for many workers due to work-related stress or depression must also be considered. the commission is therefore obliged to present a new, forward-looking strategy on health and safety at work, which also focuses on accident prevention. a self-commissioned evaluation of the 2007-2012 strategy underlines this call for further improvement in health and safety at work. the continuing economic and financial crisis must not be exploited to extend working hours or to undermine the safety and quality of jobs. it is at such times that we must send a message to workers that we are not leaving them alone, but are constantly working to improve their safety and health.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the following: commission statement on the eu cybersecurity strategy an open, secure and secure cyberspace (2013/2606 ((rsp)) oral question to the council on the digital agenda for growth, mobility and employment by jens rohde, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000085/2013 b7-0219/2013) (2013/2593 ((rsp)) oral question to the commission on the digital agenda for growth, mobility and employment by jens rohde, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000086/2013 b7-0220/2013) (2013/2593 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. data security, data protection are concepts that are of utmost importance to us, and we should work on them most urgently. when i hear, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be at the forefront, it is precisely in these areas of technology that we should be at the forefront and go further into innovation, creativity, research, so that we can really do this in the interests of the citizens. yes, we need more work! yes, we have to make something happen here! but we cannot do this by talking too much, we must also do something. the second point i would like to raise in this context is that we must ensure that the security of our citizens is also guaranteed by net neutrality. it is the only way to ensure that some are not over-compensated by others who have more money than, for example, small and mediumsized enterprises. we must also be at the forefront of developing the capabilities we have in these areas.
mr president, the european digital market will only grow with the trust of citizens and consumers and i think that is what we have to debate right now when we talk about data protection, when we talk about cybersecurity, when we talk about net neutrality. we really need to care about those rules now, to create the single digital market and to create high-level standards for consumers and citizens. dear commissioner, i missed a bit the perspective of citizens’ and consumers’ rights in your words and i would like to ask you to keep that in mind also, that it is their view which counts when it is about trust in this market, about really building the capacities for making a difference. we do not need to have a european facebook which is infringing data protection rules, like facebook did. we do not need to have the same situations as on other markets. we need our standards on the european market, thereby building a competitive advantage, especially, for example, when it comes to net neutrality. there i really have to say: please take into account that it is not only about investors and entrepreneurs, but it is about the citizens and consumers out there. they have their rights and they want to take part in this digital economy, as do smaller enterprises which are disadvantaged in the actual market, and we need efficient rules on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as this resolution rightly points out, threats and attacks from cyberspace are increasing daily and present new challenges to the eu. six of the most serious cyberattacks alone took 30,000 hours off the internet for european citizens last year. we are increasingly exposing ourselves to criminals through the proliferation of digital applications and devices. 50% of all attacks last year were on mobile devices and networks. there are increasing reports of so-called vulnerabilities in networked applications, so-called smart grids, on which the supply and transport infrastructure and other critical infrastructures are based. in this sense, we must no longer hesitate to impose high and sustainable standards for the security of our networks. the information security of our citizens and our companies must not be compromised. in view of the multiple challenges of serious crime, economic espionage including state espionage and military espionage, there is an urgent need to strategically promote the eu as an industrial location with a view to becoming an it security location. commissioner, i think your initiative is 100% correct in this respect. we cannot rely exclusively on products from china, asia or the united states in certain sensitive areas. there must be a separate eu industrial site in this context. we must strengthen research and implementation strategies and also provide financial support. the best of the best in it must have a perspective in the eu and not just outside the eu. in this context, please do not forget the staff at enisa and europol, because there are many demands that can be made, but we also need to have the professionals who can ultimately do what we ask of them and the tasks we give them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, allow me to thank all the honourable members that are involved in the two committees and those who are interested in those issues, of leadership, so to say. the debate has shown me again just how important the online world is, not only to the commission but to all of us and how many facets of our lives it touches, and how many approaches there are to it. this is about all parts of the digital ecosystem. it is about the operators who run digital networks. it is about device and equipment makers. it is about the many entrepreneurs and content creators, like those innovating in europe’s eur 10 billion app economy. but actually it is about more than that. it is about every business, it is about every business of every size in every sector. businesses that need to communicate to stay competitive – whether it is mobiles for their staff or the cloud for their data – to communicate securely and effectively. but too many of them cannot find those suppliers. and more and more products and services are going online, from cars to healthcare. that is going to become more of a problem. that is why it is not just about one sector: it is about our whole economic future. i know there are those who dream of a perfect single telecoms market, and i understand that. but i am also pragmatic. and i am conscious that time is not on our side – in terms of parliamentary time, in terms of the rate of technological change, in terms of the urgent need to restore competitiveness and create some jobs. that is why, for the time being, i am putting forward not the perfect, first-principles solution, but a series of targeted measures identifying the most important barriers to our single market and knocking them down. like you, i am determined. i am determined to bring roaming to an end. and we will do that: it will be a big part of our proposals. but please remember: roaming is a particularly irritating single market barrier, but it is just one barrier. let us bring them all down. in a true single market, roaming does not exist. think what this would mean. it means helping our citizens, and getting rid of all those unfair irritants. no more shocking bill rip-offs, no more switching off your phone for your whole time on holiday, no more struggling to find a mobile signal and no more finding out your network is blocking skype. no more slow connections when you were promised a fast one. but it also means helping operators: helping them to smash barriers and think big, with a framework applied consistently from dublin to dubrovnik; more predictable and consistent access to spectrum, able to build a new large-scale services based on end-to-end quality. and helping them to plan the cross-european digital networks that underpin cross-european services. i think that is something we all want to see. so let us deliver that connected continent. let us deliver growth for our economy. it means fairness for our citizens and leadership for europe in a key sector – in telecoms, ict and every sector that depends on them. let us bring down roaming, and other barriers besides. then i think we could show the world how europe is relevant to their lives, to their needs and to their future.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i really find like-mindedness in this meeting on almost everything. all the problems which have been mentioned here – the shortcomings, even criticism with regard to speed – really are shared by the council. i am really grateful for all the comments and proposals. they are very valuable insights. we also share – as i said at the beginning – a belief in the importance of the digital agenda. this is not just words, it really is on our list of priorities and we really will try to deliver and make a difference on this issue. there are areas which are directly related to the digital agenda. some are implicitly so, which is also logical, and they should not be overlooked. so, commissioner, when you referred in your comments to the importance of csdp for instance, or cyber-defence, many members of parliament mentioned this as part of our social tasks as well. the main issue is definitely growth in jobs and employment, and this is directly linked with these issues, which should all be addressed. i would say that we really do need additional efforts and – as mr manders, for instance said, additional deeds. i agree with that. let us do it on time but also establishing good quality, which is no less important. during my opening remarks i did not say anything on roaming, which was mentioned by the commissioner. definitely this is something very important to be mentioned and addressed. the roaming iii regulation is still, as we all know, in the process of being implemented, but the main structural measures are due to come into force by the middle of next year. our priority must be rapid and correct implementation of this regulation rather than seeking now to change the rules, which is something that could have negative consequences on operators’ investment decisions. everything has to do with the citizens and their needs. again, this reflects what has been said in many of the presentations so far. we do share a common goal: to bring roaming tariffs into line with domestic prices by 2015. it is not easy, but it is really realistic and doable and we have to do it. in closing, i really would like to congratulate mr rohde, first of all for the unanimous vote on this report. this means there is unity of views among the members of the european parliament. those views really are shared by the council and i see that they are also backed by the commission. this means we really can move forward this agenda and try to implement it on time, and sooner rather than later.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is not very easy to respond on this issue. the council is well aware of the concerns which have been expressed by a number of members of this house over the recent case in the uk relating to the possession of classified information. however, the council has not discussed this issue and has not adopted any position on it. so members will appreciate that, as the presidency, i am speaking on behalf of the council as a whole and cannot do otherwise. it follows that i am not able to make any substantive comments on a matter which is the responsibility of governments and member states. furthermore, i should also mention that the issue which you have chosen to discuss this afternoon is the subject of an ongoing police inquiry. it would therefore be inappropriate for me, as a representative of the council, to contribute to this afternoon’s discussion. i am sure that you will understand that this is not due to reluctance on my part and of the presidency to engage with this house, but is a function of the office of the council presidency and the competence of the council, and indeed of the eu as a whole. i can, of course, assure members that i will pay close attention to everything that is said during this debate and will listen carefully. it is also very valuable to be present here. with your understanding, those will be all the comments made on behalf of the council.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, media freedom and pluralism matter. there is no doubt about that, and we are very concerned by the severe challenges to them. we are constantly confronted with calls for action from citizens and the european parliament. the eu should be a role model on media freedom – a beacon of freedom to our own citizens and others. freedom of expression is an essential foundation of democracy, enshrined in the european convention and the charter of fundamental rights. we are committed to ensuring that this freedom is fully respected by member states when they implement union law. people must be free to hold opinions; they must have the freedom to receive and give out information without constant interference, and that includes the freedom of journalists to carry out their work. of course, freedom of expression is not absolute – for example, if public safety or national security or other rights are at stake – but limitations must be necessary and proportionate. they must be in accordance with the law and they must be justified in a democratic society. some have expressed serious doubts about the case of david miranda, the partner of guardian journalist glenn greenwald, and particularly about whether his detention for nine hours and the searching and confiscation of his possessions were proportionate and justified. that particular case is under judicial review in the uk courts and, where relevant, the review will draw on eu law and on the rulings of the european court of human rights. of course, where there are ongoing proceedings, the commission cannot take a position on questions of law in a particular case, but i do want to assure you about the wider work we are undertaking in the area of media freedom and pluralism. i have long been concerned about these issues and i asked the high level group of experts to advise me. they found, among other things, a need to ensure independent monitoring of media freedom and pluralism and a need to strengthen the independence of audiovisual regulators etc. earlier this year we consulted on these and other issues and we are already taking action. for example, we are piloting a project on an independent tool to monitor member states’ media pluralism via the european institute in florence – a project first put forward by the european parliament, i might add. we can expect the first results in the spring of next year. we have also just published a call for projects concerning an independent european centre for press and media freedom – a centre to gather data on threats to journalists and provide them with help if needed. democracies need a space in which people can challenge the status quo and uphold accountability. a free and pluralistic media sector does that well, and that is why we must promote and foster it. it goes to the heart of our democracy and our values and it is vital to preserve it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we live in a free and open europe, and we are proud of it! that is why the news that david miranda has been detained, searched and investigated for a long time, almost like a criminal, is at first viewed with some puzzlement. this causes many to shake their heads. and then, if you also know the background that it's about the snowden publications, that it's about journalistic contacts, then of course the question is: do you want to put pressure on journalists to make them more compliant? do you want to tackle media freedom in any form or not? that's the impression you get when you look at the case. i can therefore only ask the british authorities to be careful and sensitive in these cases and not to give the impression that they are. firstly, because the way in which the individual is treated is open to debate, and secondly, because any pressure on the media is simply unacceptable. but - and i would also add this on behalf of the epp group - each state has the right to define its own rules, for example the rule of classifying certain documents as sensitive, secret documents, classifying them. and if the charge is in the room that certain individuals want to take such classified documents out of the country, want to use them in another way, then that's a violation of the law. then it is contrary to the national law which has been defined there, in the united kingdom, in the parliament there by parliamentarians. then the uk authority the uk authorities also has the right to examine this existing legal basis in everyday life. the legal situation has been created in the british parliament by the rule of law and therefore it is also the responsibility of the authorities to control it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. is what happened there proportionate? it is now in the hands of the british judiciary to judge this case independently. i would like to reiterate that pressure on journalists is simply unacceptable!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me say first of all that it is now more than 12 weeks since the guardian revealed the information from edward snowden on the massive surveillance programmes by intelligence services, including those of eu member states, and it is a shame that since then no eu governments have really been investigating the activities of their own intelligence services and assuming the consequences. this inaction must cease. these surveillance measures are ongoing and they will continue if no responsibility is taken by the political leaders – and i am also addressing the commission in that regard. we are speaking here about fundamental values. we cannot say it is up to the member states alone to ensure respect for fundamental rights and fundamental principles: for the rule of law and our constitutional principles. we are a community of law, in which we all share values, fundamental rights and fundamental laws, and we have to show we are responsible for the observance of those fundamental principles, of which freedom of the press is one. the european convention on human rights is a very important aspect of these fundamental principles. just 200 metres from here in strasbourg we have the council of europe and the european court of human rights, with its case law. that law needs to be enforced throughout the european union, otherwise we are no longer providing for human rights in the world.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank the honourable members for this very thoughtful discussion on democracy and media freedom. i am aware of the sincere commitment of the house in this regard. vice-president reding is sorry she could not be here today, and it is an honour for me to replace her. the eu should be a role model, there is no doubt about that, and i worry, as parliament well knows, about certain practices in member states. however, we need to see whether the miranda case, which is on the agenda, is comparable. the eu should be, and i repeat myself, a role model on media freedom. it should be a beacon of freedom to our citizens and to others. freedom of expression is an essential foundation of democracy, enshrined in the european convention and the charter of fundamental rights.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, frankly speaking i cannot say much more than i said at the beginning, but maybe i could just say a few words. it is not necessary to discuss in the council the importance of human rights and freedoms; everyone shares that. i also noted that many members of parliament spoke about national regulations which should be adjusted and adapted in order to avoid possible pressure on journalists’ rights; this is also very important in a free society. these issues should not be discussed in advance and i am speaking on behalf of the council. the issue is really very sensitive, and all i can say is that it is very important to strike a balance between the protection of citizens’ basic rights and freedoms on the one hand and issues of national security on the other. it is really very sensitive, not just one-sided, and really we have to study this carefully and responsibly and not jump to any conclusions too fast, accusing each other. that is all i can say at the end, but thank you very much for all your comments and insights- as i said i listened very attentively to them. it will be very important for forthcoming discussions in the council when these issues come up.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms lövin, and other members of the committee on fisheries for their work on this report. as you know, the objective of the commission’s proposal was to bring the eel regulation into line with the treaty rules on delegated and implementing acts. i welcome the fact that the report agrees with most of the proposed changes. i am aware that, during the discussions in the fisheries committee, concerns were voiced as to whether this regulation is effective enough in protecting eels, and i heard the same concern expressed by ms lövin here in plenary. i understand that this house would prefer a more comprehensive review of the current rules, going beyond the scope of the commission’s proposal. i would like to repeat today that the commission is committed to ensuring the recovery of european eel stocks. however, we have to be prepared in a better way. that is why we have recently received and are currently analysing the latest assessment by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) of the implementation of the eel management plans by member states. we are also looking forward to the annual eel stock assessment by ices in november 2013. we need these assessments in order to proceed. this advice will also include an evaluation of the eel regulation and its consistency with the precautionary approach. on the basis of these scientific and technical data, the commission will report to parliament and the council, before the end of this year, on the implementation and effectiveness of the eel management plans. on the basis of that report, the commission will consider whether amendments to the eel regulation are necessary in order to improve the recovery of this important stock. i would like to reassure all the honourable members that the commission very much wants to ensure the sustainability of this stock.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in fact, the debate today is about the fact that we are carrying out a so-called alignment, i.e. the alignment with the treaty of lisbon, with regard to the delegation of the power to adopt delegated and implementing acts to the commission. but it's also a fact that the biomass and the recruitment of the european eel is not in a really good state. the main issue to be addressed is therefore the extent to which the aal ordinance no 1100/2007, including the aal management plan, has actually been implemented. it was really of existential importance that in 2007 the commission, together with the council, adopted a ban on the export of eels and eel products, fish products from eels, outside the european union. and we know very well that the biomass of the eel is measured by how many glass eels come from the sargassum lake into the biscay and then, in principle, into the streams, into the european rivers, into their habitats, into their habitats, and they can reproduce there. in fact, everyone knows that there's an unlikely black market there. we must enforce this export ban consistently so that we have the recruitment and the offspring for our eel in the future! it is therefore also necessary that we continue to pursue our eel management plans, which have already been implemented in many member states. the eel is aquaculture-capable, which means that glass eels are reared in aquaculture facilities in denmark and the uk to smalls. and we have a program to release them into the inland lakes to increase the stock, and i'm sure that it can be fished. so it would be throwing the baby out with the bath if we don't even interrupt the life cycle of the eel for 25 years now, and say, we need to make a complete change. i agree with mrs lövin that we now need an evaluation by 31 december of how this management plan has worked. then we must look further.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european eel is in bad shape, very bad! i am quite frank with you: the aal regulation came too late and was then implemented by the eu member states with a great deal of delay. and at the same time, the eels were getting fewer and fewer! we have this issue on the agenda today because the eaggf regulation needs to be adapted to the lisbon treaty. it is a boring formality at first sight. but it's more than a formality. the treaty of lisbon is based on the fact that the european parliament has a say in the future of fisheries policy. we'll be watching the evolution of the eel stock closely. i sincerely hope that the current management plans will be sufficient and will lead to a recovery. it's hard to estimate after such a short time. i therefore welcome the compromises on the table which reject an immediate ban on fishing, but at the same time make it clear that we do not want to turn a blind eye to reality and will take further action if necessary.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner barnier, you have just mentioned that a number of reports have already been presented by this european parliament. in no previous report has the social dimension of the internal market been so consistently negated as in this one. i am therefore very surprised at the praise of the employment committee, the representative of the employment committee, because not one of the motions decided on there was adopted in the imco committee. clearly, a correction needs to be made here. article 1 of the services directive also contains an obligation on this social dimension. the same is true of the lisbon treaty, which made it clear that we have a social market economy and not a market-liberal market economy. and that needs to be expressed in a text like this. and, madam president, if there is no correction in this sense in the votes tomorrow, then our group will not be able to vote in favour of this report. we will even be forced to vote against it, although we are concerned about the internal market and of course we want to give full effect to what we have decided in the services directive. but we social democrats cannot do anything if economic liberalism is the only one to speak.
i have to say, madam president, the aim of the reform of the european customs code was to simplify and modernise customs clearance procedures, to make them easier for businesses and to make the transition to electronic procedures a reality. this was a very good approach by the commission, which we as parliament very much welcomed. the commission proposal, however, contained a number of points which threatened to undermine these objectives. i am thinking in particular of the non-preferential origin scheme. the commission proposed delegated acts for this key area, the design of which has direct consequences for a large part of trade between the eu and third countries, which would have again called into question all that had already been envisaged in long-term work and was certainly envisaged according to the case law of the ecj. we were concerned that this would have involved mandatory list rules which would have been totally impractical for customs clearance and would have involved increased administrative burdens which were not in any cost-benefit ratio. we were able to prevent that. i also thank mrs le grip, who, after initial hesitation, helped to design it and said that it had to be designed differently. i think that we have now reached a compromise in the negotiations with the council which could have gone further, but which is viable here and can really bring about these objectives, which the commission has also envisaged. i think that is why we as a group can agree to this. and we hope that this will be put into practice very soon and very quickly, so that the customs will work better and easier.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the situation in the union (2013/2623 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome you, mr barroso, and i would also like to welcome mr linkevičius, the foreign minister. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to welcome you to the final state of the union address by the president of the commission in this parliament. the state of the union debate between the commission and parliament is certainly a key moment in the political life of the european union. today there is a summit meeting here in strasbourg, a summit meeting of the community institutions. we discuss the road map for the european union once a year, and this time, as always, in a heated debate. we, the community institutions parliament and the commission , deliberate in a transparent and public manner. unlike other institutions which travel to brussels for summits, sometimes declare themselves the european executive, often meet behind closed doors, we meet in public. i think it is good that debates on european affairs are held in a transparent manner, with open doors and in a way that is clear to all citizens. (applause from the centre) the people of europe want to know who decides where, on what basis, why and with what arguments. the loss of trust in the european institutions by people is enormous. and that's why the principle is: transparency builds trust. and this debate is a transparent debate which i hope will restore confidence in the functioning and the functionality of european democracy. the commission and parliament have a common line: by an overwhelming majority in this house and certainly by unanimity in the commission, the community method is the line of action in the european union. the community method, which means resolving conflicts through dialogue and consensus, replacing the rule of the stronger with solidarity and democracy, balancing the interests of small and large states, of north and south, east and west. the community method means putting the welfare of all before the interests of the individual. the particular interests, the individual interests, and the fact that nations and individual states compete against each other, is the opposite of the community method and it is dangerous. i therefore appeal to the members and member states of the european union and to the members of the european council, particularly as regards the implementation of major joint projects: parliament decides by majority, we have a long list of tasks which are not being solved because there are vested interests in the council and they block legislation. (applause from the centre) this applies in particular to the implementation of the financial perspective which we adopted here by a large majority. their transposition into concrete law is extremely difficult. ladies and gentlemen, this summer was the first summer in five years of crisis that has been relatively quiet. we were all looking forward to it. it was not that every week a different disaster message was ticking over the ticker or apocalyptic conjurations of a euro dawn were unsettling us all. and the financial markets have calmed down. that's certainly good news. but we must not be fooled by this calm, not even in today's debate. millions of people are still suffering from the effects of the crisis. the unemployment rate is still horrendous, poverty is still dramatic, economic growth is slowing down, and the credit crunch is still not resolved. i'm sure we take people's concerns seriously here. we must also tackle the unresolved problems with commitment and courage until the european elections. i will be able to tell you tomorrow morning - and i think this is good news - that before the vote we have reached a good solution between us and the european central bank on banking union. the supervision and parliamentary control of the central bank's supervisory activities within the framework of the banking union is also a piece of transparency of which i have just spoken. the citizens want to know what a central bank, as a supervisory body, is accountable to parliament for. the youth guarantee must be implemented. the worst thing in europe is youth unemployment. if we do not give young people in europe a perspective, how can we expect them to have confidence in the european union? i have spoken about the difficulties with the multiannual financial framework. i expect all the institutions, the commission and the european council, to use the financial perspective to create growth in europe, because the financial perspective is a targeted investment programme.
mr president of the commission! you mentioned justus lipsius and the naming of the council building. i liked that. but i would also like to point out that the philosopher justus lipsius was the inventor of divine grace - i hope that was not the reason for naming the council building.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i think it is quite good that mr barroso has reminded us that next year is 2014 and we are living in the european union one hundred years after 1914. i think that looking back at this kind of data makes it even clearer what an enviable generation of politicians we are today, and what an enviable part of the world we are in, having assumed political responsibility for this wonderful project of the european union. i think that needs to be said again and again. what has been achieved is wonderful and it is more appropriate for all of us to ask why we have been so unable to defend this miracle of the european union better in recent years. because, in fact, especially after the last five years, we are faced with the fact that more and more citizens in the european union are not seeing the european union as part of the solution, but as a growing problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis policy has not brought us all safely out of the crisis, but the crisis has created misery and lack of prospects in large parts of the european union, in the way we have reacted to it. how we deal with this, how we get out of the recession and how we stop always dealing with public debt and not dealing with the big financial risks that are piled up in the banking and financial sector, that is a very central question. the banking union - i can only support what mr verhofstadt has said - must come, otherwise we will not be able to tackle the causes of the crisis. i would like to mention some things which have not been mentioned here as 'green' issues. unemployment, mr verhofstadt, you have spoken. you also talked about the need to fight the recession, but how do we do that? in what direction do we want industrial and economic recovery? i find it intolerable, mr barroso, that during your five years in office, climate protection has been consistently pushed backwards. i find it intolerable that at a time when the european union is constantly being told that energy efficiency, resource efficiency and renewable energy are the future, that this european union, thanks to the commission, is now trying to create new subsidies for nuclear power, for coal, and to put new technologies and efficiency technologies at a disadvantage. this is not in the interests of the citizens whose trust it seeks to win. i also do not think it is right that mrs merkel should be tolerated by the commission and call her colleague mr kenny in ireland or the prime minister of portugal and say: 'i represent the interests of bmw and mercedes. if they make climate change for the car industry based on a completed trilogue, then i, as german head of government, will make sure that companies from bmw and mercedes disappear from these countries. ladies and gentlemen, where are we, why does no one from the commission publicly object when such a political scandal happens? (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, the agrarian reform has done nothing for the environment! it's not fair what you've decided. the trade agreement which you are now beginning to negotiate with the united states will cost tens of thousands of jobs in agriculture throughout europe. is that what you really want, mr barroso? democracy in italy started this, freedom of the press, freedom of speech: you accepted what happened there with your colleagues. today we can only lament what is happening in hungary and romania. they are not defending the fundamental rights of the european union. and that whistleblower edward snowden is involuntarily being held in asylum by putin, what does that mean for democratic values and the fundamental rights orientation in europe? (applause from the centre) mr barroso, the tobacco directive: the door is wide open for the most powerful lobby in the world! the fact that the vote has been postponed is really the negative conclusion of an embarrassing debate which is being held in the commission, but also in this parliament. (applause from the centre) mrs. sommer, i'd like to talk to you about this. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with this: we'll have a quiet talk about syria this afternoon. i'm so relieved that diplomacy has once again made a comeback. but the refugee catastrophe for which we are responsible, for which we have been partly responsible for months, for years, and which is being exacerbated by syria, is a disgrace! you can make europe better! mr barroso, you could have made europe better. you can win back the citizens' trust with a different policy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague harms! you have just quoted in your speech from alleged telephone calls of the german chancellor. since i assume you haven't personally intercepted them, could it be that this situation is also an example of your split approach to data protection? the greens have been repeatedly advocating data protection, and are now over-dramatising this spying affair and raising it further, and on the other hand the green minister for transport in baden-württemberg wants to store the movements of motorists for weeks on end in order to collect a toll.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr caspary! - what are you doing? i would be glad if what you were about to say were also to go in the direction of calling directly in lisbon mrs merkel's intervention, which was talked about everywhere in brussels, and calling in dublin in ireland, after parliament, under the leadership of a rapporteur from your group, had agreed in the trilogue on non-binding but indicative limit values for co2 reduction for cars, that mrs merkel had not only opposed this trilogue with these calls, but had also made it clear, supported by many forces from germany in brussels, that this policy endangers the sites of the german automotive industry in southern europe. i think that's a political scandal, mr caspary, and you should apologize for it.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, president of the commission, commissioners, honourable members, on behalf of the council let me thank president barroso for his clear and perceptive analysis of the current state of the european union. the president has set out many of the challenges we all face, not least in the area of economic and financial policies. the development of the economic and monetary union, banking union and the single resolution mechanism, as part of the overall objective of ensuring effective european decision-making in the banking sector: these are the priority areas for the lithuanian presidency. president barroso has rightly underlined the importance of continuing to make progress on the establishment of banking union, and effective delivery is essential here for all of us. equally importantly to this end, we need to finalise the various proposals under the single market focusing on the digital agenda – something that was raised here in this house yesterday when a very important discussion took place – as well as moving forward with the internal energy market. i can assure the commission of the lithuanian presidency’s support on these and other key issues. we look forward to rapid progress in the trade and investment negotiations with the us, which, as was mentioned in this address, can give us a powerful tool for delivering greater prosperity and creating jobs. the european economy also stands to benefit from the multiannual financial framework (mff), which will release much-needed funds to help stimulate growth and create jobs, particularly – and i agree with you here – for young people. the agreement we reached in june constitutes a good deal for our citizens and is very welcome. we therefore look forward to its adoption in the near future. i strongly agree that getting the economy financed is of crucial importance. we must work together here to adopt the mff speedily. i can assure you that everything will be done according to agreed procedures and within an agreed legal framework. ‘unity’ is a key word which was sounded today many times, and the united stance on syria is of crucial importance. our strong, united position, as reflected in the high representative’s statement in vilnius, has undoubtedly already contributed to the search for a diplomatic solution. it is already a contribution to this process. mention was also made of united support for the countries of the eastern partnership, to help them withstand external pressure. this is another of our tasks, and we are addressing it. i do not intend to run through all the issues raised by president barroso in his address. many of them, as i have said, already constitute priorities for the lithuanian presidency. i want to assure both the commission and this house of the presidency’s support in tackling the heavy agenda which lies before us. our irish colleagues set a formidable example with the results they were able to achieve, and we hope to prove equally productive. i know that our greek colleagues, as the other member of the trio group, share the same ambition. together we have a great deal of work to do before this parliamentary term comes to an end next year.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, europe is still in crisis, and it is important to solve it and to involve people in this solution. but i am not sure - mrs harms, mr swoboda, mr verhofstadt - whether you can help people to deal with a difficult problem by simply explaining from morning to night how dramatic the situation is, how miserable it is, how there is sheer need, how everyone is just dying in need. that's not true. the situation is much more complex. and as for the realistic description: i am very grateful to president barroso today for giving a realistic description. he did not use flattery. he described what measures have been successful and what measures we must continue to implement. and unlike many on the left of this house, he believes that we must continue down this path consistently, and rightly so! structural reforms and austerity are essential, but they are not the only way. but it's central, and it was successful! and if you read the süddeutsche zeitung yesterday, us investors are buying more european stocks than at any time in the last 36 years, and confidence in government bonds is also rising. well, folks, things are going well. now, let's try to be realistic about this. the measures were right, they were reasonable. it takes time, sometimes you have to endure situations for a long time. and there are still a few questions to be answered. of course there are, and they've been described here. they've been described correctly. and they are addressed to the commission, but they are also addressed to us sometimes. you know, all this talk about economic and industrial development, and then at the same time this afternoon to adopt a cap that will further tighten the measures for industrial areas, that is not only false, that is ridiculous. that's what's happening here. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but that's just the "beautiful green new world" they're talking about. and when it comes to the real thing, mrs. harms, you'll be helping to pack in some new restrictions. what is happening today with the environmental impact assessment, what is happening with many of the proposals you are making here - bans, new permits, new restrictions - is destroying growth, and you are responsible for that. that annoys me immensely! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. what i have learned in my political life in the last decades in european politics is that states that handle money carefully, states that seek structural reform, go the hard way. germany has done the same. there was once an spd chancellor who went down this road. and with that, we have created the power to create new growth and also to create jobs for the poor people. i don't know of any alternative to this path. in any case, spending money and putting money in is not enough. it has to be a little more intelligent, madam president!
the commission is not prepared to accept this. that was a very good state of the union speech, a very realistic description of the situation. first signs of improvement are evident: the economy is growing again, albeit at a low level, unemployment is falling, exports are rising, spreads are narrowing. this shows that the path taken is the right one. i'm very grateful that you made that clear today. it was important, and it was a very clear signal! the way forward is to consolidate public finances, as mr reul has just said, but also to introduce structural reforms in the countries concerned: liberalization of the markets for goods, services and labour markets - all the painful processes that some countries have already overcome. i want to say a few words about youth unemployment. yes, it is true, it is far too high, it is dramatic and must be fought. but where were our friends from the socialists and the greens when youth unemployment in some of the countries concerned was already 20, 25% before the crisis? we have proposed the liberalization of labour markets, we have proposed structural reforms, and they have always been rejected. it is not that unemployment has only gone up because of the crisis. are we there? no, of course not, but we're definitely on the right track! and let me say one last thing: i am very grateful to you for taking up the rule of law initiative, for taking the opportunity to discuss hungary now - dear colleague reding, you have indeed taken this forward - in order to do something so that we europeans can defend our values. if we forget our values, we forget who we are! we can't let that happen! good luck with that.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr zahradil, please. are you prepared to admit that it is not the eu that is in trouble, but that the nation states have not done their homework? let us take the case of youth unemployment, for which the eu has no competence whatsoever. it is now being claimed that the eu is in trouble. you stand here and talk about eu problems. the fact is that the nation states - the concept you represent - have created the problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. president barroso is quite right when he says that problems are being europeanised and achievements nationalised! this is the wrong way!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in my opinion, you don't win back trust and approval by trying to put people in a good light in places where they know their insecurity is justified. and a very important point at the moment in europe is that the burden of the crisis is unequally distributed and that because of this injustice we are increasingly experiencing uncertainty about the prospects for the future. and i don't think you should be flattering me. your whole commitment to climate policy - you have thankfully gone to the 'box' against the great climate sceptics in this house, mr reul, mr farage and others - your verbal commitment is good and beautiful. i remember a very successful climate policy with stavros dimas, with the former energy commissioner piebalgs. i see today that you are continually supporting günther oettinger and mr tajani with your unreasonable environmental policy and that sensible people like mrs hedegaard and mr potočnik simply have nothing to say in this debate. i find that regrettable!
the debate is closed.
in writing. in recent years, eu policy has experienced a crisis of legitimacy, as the european population has become increasingly uncertain, especially as a result of the eurozone's austerity policies. many people are now critical of not only this policy but also of the process of european unification. we must therefore try to win back the people to our policies and actions. we need to create visions as politicians that are relevant to the individual eu citizen himself, so that he can identify with them and deal with them. president barroso, your speech gave the impression that the crisis was already past. however, a slight economic recovery alone is not enough to provide the many unemployed with access to the labour market. we can only overcome the crisis of confidence in the eu and the economic crisis if the eu's crisis policy finally contributes to improving the situation of the unemployed and workers in precarious employment. moreover, all countries must act in unison. this means that a common currency can only be successful if it pursues common economic and social objectives. the austerity measures of chancellor merkel and her associates were a prime example of how european policy should not be designed. another key issue that we urgently need to tackle more intensively at eu level is tax fraud. in germany alone, tax evaders cause damage worth 30 billion euros annually. this is money that could be better spent on education, infrastructure or debt relief. the funds thus obtained will in turn finance a more balanced budgetary policy, which is not only geared to savings but also brings added value to the population through targeted investment in education, research, growth sectors and employment. let us together pursue a new, bolder and more social policy which will convince our people and strengthen our union in the long term.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a very controversial report here. my group is very keen to see the second reading and i ask you not to vote in favour of this proposal. (applause from the centre and the right)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i don't want to keep anyone from lunch, but before we can have lunch, we need to vote on the five breakfast guidelines. and we reached an agreement with the council. parliament spoke to the envi committee but stressed the importance of publishing the amended legal texts. we have not yet received any communication from the commission. but informally, we've received a communication from the office of publications that this should be done within a month. that was important to some of my colleagues. i would like to make that clear again. and then we can vote on this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we cannot, as social democrats, in any case agree to a report which negates the social dimension of services. i reject what mrs corazza bildt said. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. − european cultures are the basis of the diversity of the european union. this diversity makes europe a unique habitat in the world. this diversity is due in particular to the diversity of languages which have been the means of identification and culture for generations and centuries. it is therefore of great importance that this report makes clear that we urgently need to preserve this linguistic diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012, because in my view the high rate of youth unemployment is unacceptable. i support all efforts to combat this problem. we must give young people a new perspective - this is a top priority!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the skrzydlewska report. we are not left in peace by the 5.5 million unemployed young people under 25. we know about the supply-demand imbalance: the european monitor shows almost 2 million unfilled jobs, as there is a clear lack of qualifications. we need a new approach to education and more intensive cooperation between employment services, vocational guidance and training institutions. last week i co-organised a conference in brussels on youth unemployment with over 250 participants, mainly school pupils, trainees and students, as well as representatives of churches, small and mediumsized enterprises and ngos. we have presented concrete solutions which are still too little known. this includes the european youth guarantee to encourage private and public employers to provide sufficient training and jobs. the number of recipients should be increased from 25 to 30. member states should be prepared to learn more from each other. the german dual training system, with close coordination between school and work, is a good example of what is currently being implemented in spain. the esf is doing a great deal to reduce the school drop-out rate. the funding goes directly to the young people. we're making it clear that you're not second-class or third-class. we will not allow you to be defamed! have some confidence, we'll help you!
in writing. - i voted for the report because we need to exploit the full potential of the services sector and therefore insist on a consistent implementation of the services directive. i hope that this will help us to achieve greater transparency and to break down the barriers that exist.
in writing. − the own-initiative report makes it particularly clear that the internal market for services is far from complete and that considerable barriers remain within member states and indeed between member states, although the services directive has long since removed this possibility. it is all the more gratifying that the ecj has found the conditions of access for service providers in belgium to be disproportionate. such restrictions are not, however, economically viable, nor are they in the interests of workers in europe. the report rightly points out what remains to be done.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not two short things. firstly, mr president, are you prepared to take note of the fact that colin powell is no longer secretary of state for the united states of america, but that we have had a change of government there and are dealing with another american administration? second question: are you prepared to take note that human rights watch has already produced a very detailed investigation which exactly as the high representative has said makes it very clear that this attack was by the regime and that it was chemical weapons, in other words that the waiting, the much longer waiting, is not very meaningful, but clearly only represents the line of moscow?
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank you for having succeeded on saturday in finding a broad consensus among the european foreign ministers on this difficult question, at a time when it is not easy to achieve european unity in foreign policy. and i think in this process of reaching a political solution, that played a big role. it was also the first time that the security council had to deal with the inspectors' report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why i think it is important that this ultimatum has come. chemical weapons, abc weapons, must never be used. they cannot be used in the syrian conflict, and it must be made clear to the dictators of the world that they would not be used anywhere else. this goes beyond the syrian conflict. if we can succeed in removing these weapons from circulation, if the international community acts together and if russia finally assumes its responsibility in this matter, as it has so far refused to do in the syrian issue, then this is a way that we must seek, on the premise, as you said in your speech, that the conditions must be fully met, that the conditions must be fully and quickly enforced and that this must be done without reservations. i think it is important that this should also create pressure to bring about geneva ii in order to get closer to a political solution in the syrian conflict itself and to move things forward here. one more sentence: we should promote humanitarian aid. this house should also be prepared to provide funds to help the syrian refugees, and to help the un and our commissioner responsible. and mr farage: we shout at each other now, we don't shoot at each other now that's europe, and you have to learn that this is the great progress we have achieved in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i agree with you and i also believe that the european union has already done a lot financially, but it is not enough. and there is a political dimension to this: jordan, turkey and lebanon are also politically at risk. the destabilisation of these countries is of varying quality. it is therefore important to help these countries to cope with this burden, both for reasons of political stability in the countries and for humanitarian aid to the refugees themselves. we in europe must also be prepared to offer people who are running for their lives a home for this time. we must therefore also give greater thought to the way in which we treat war refugees in the context of asylum procedures. sometimes i think it's too small-minded here. this is a european value! (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. let me answer briefly. yes, of course, this issue is sometimes not balanced in the news coverage, and sometimes you have to be angry about it, but we live in a europe of a free press! but one thing is clear: we must make it clear in our reporting and in our discussions that we can only achieve peace through political means, because in this case there was a military threat. assad and russia would never have agreed to this peace process. this is another aspect which must be made clear in our discussions. it is right, mr president, that this is an international convention. and then there is the international legal basis. but that is why it is all the more the duty and the right of the international community to ensure that these weapons of mass destruction are destroyed in syria.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, my dear colleague, without the military pressure from the united states, do you really think we would be discussing political options or a political solution today? without that pressure, we would not, in my view, have seen the movement that we have seen from the syrian regime.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. are you aware that germany is taking in 100 additional refugees today, but that there are already 17 000 syrian refugees in germany? so today we are talking about those who are accepted outside the normal refugee procedure and immediately get a work permit and a residence permit. in addition, together with sweden, we have taken in more than half the refugees of all the eu countries.
mr president, the baroness ashton! i would like to add my voice to the congratulations that have been expressed here. they have succeeded in bringing the european union together behind a declaration in a situation which was anything but easy. for that, you deserve respect and gratitude. the question is what to do. the german foreign minister westerwelle believes that action is now necessary. i can only join in. syria's accession to the chemical weapons convention, the preparations for the geneva ii conference, and of course the international criminal court can expect that it may soon get a job, too, when the legal process of this crime against humanity begins. what can the european union do? i think one thing has already been mentioned here: it can take care of the refugees, alongside all the political processes that are important. it would be really crucial and a good stimulus if europe, if the european institutions, convened a european conference on refugees. it cannot be that some countries are overburdened. i think we europeans should show solidarity here. this is no excuse for member states to evade their obligation to take in individuals already - as my country does - but it would certainly be better at european level. i would like you to take the initiative.
mr president, the honourable member is right. i too welcome the proposal that syria place its chemical weapons under international control. the syrian government is urged to do so unreservedly. however, this does not undo the cruel poison gas attack of 21 august. the eu and all its member states must make a clear statement in favour of referring this case to the international criminal court. it must be clarified exactly who is responsible for this war crime, because there can be no impunity for it. the eu should now also redouble its efforts to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. this includes, in particular, the banning of depleted uranium and white phosphorus, which are particularly cruel weapons. the tragedy of the syrian refugees has been raised on several occasions. the swedish government has made an exemplary commitment to take in syrian refugees, as has commissioner malmström. the other member states must follow suit and live up to their humanitarian responsibilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is welcome that there has been movement in the deadlock in syria and that russia is once again ready to participate in the negotiations and hopefully also to finally live up to its responsibility to help end the war. but what is the real value of syria's announcement that it will open up its chemical weapons and munitions stockpiles and destroy them? without a ceasefire, it seems unrealistic at all. too dangerous, extremely difficult, say certified experts for the disposal of these warheads. and would assad and his opponents, who are already at war with each other, be prepared to do so? these are questions that need to be answered, mrs ashton. and if there is no agreement, what should a determined response to the poison gas attack look like, and what is the aim? please answer! meanwhile, the war rages on. people die, are maimed, and untold suffering is caused. but these are conventional weapons that are used, and they are legitimate! the warring parties must finally negotiate to put an end to this horror. we need to build up the pressure here. there will be no military solution!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was a mistake to depose the elected muslim brotherhood in such a violent outburst, causing so many deaths, and to imprison its entire political leadership. many egyptians who are opposed to morsi respond in the west to this objection that hitler was also democratically legitimized. i am a german and i warn against this completely unreasonable comparison. instead of waiting for the new elections to be held early, or for the muslim brotherhood to disappear into the political quagmire at the next regular elections at the latest, in the face of the great dissatisfaction of large sections of the egyptian people, the military has become the judge of democracy and human rights. mrs ashton, in answer to your question, i expressly welcome the fact that no more general budgetary aid is being granted and that only specific projects for the needy are being supported by the eu. a recent visit to cairo showed that liberal values like freedom of speech are misunderstood by many average egyptians as sexual liberty, political arbitrariness and - the worst accusation in a majority religious society - that we liberals are anti-religious. we have a lot of political work to do!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd also like to thank lady ashton for her commitment. because of this, and because of the commitment of their staff, we have access to all sites in the country. we can be honest brokers to restart an intra-egyptian dialogue. we also send the same message to all sides: that we stand for principles, for a democratic future, for the rule of law and for human rights. i think we should also make it clear that we cannot accept that minorities are persecuted. where churches burn, people will soon burn. we cannot ignore this persecution of christians. the security forces must also maintain public order. it is also important that the power vacuum in sinai be filled so that this peninsula does not remain a haven for violent extremists of all kinds. at the same time, we should demand that the military follow their own announcements and follow a concrete timetable for a return to a legitimate government. we can then extend our humanitarian aid to other areas of cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank lady ashton for her great effort and for her presence in egypt. this is a really excellent example and i would like to encourage her to continue. was jetzt nötig ist in ägypten, ist, dass ägypten sich zu einer rechtsordnung entwickelt, und dass politische auseinandersetzungen auch politisch ausgetragen werden und nicht mit gewalt oder mit juristischen mitteln, indem man politische gegner ins gefängnis steckt. und ich sage ausdrücklich als christ, ein friedlicher muslim ist unser partner, vielleicht auch unser freund. das muss jetzt auch die verfassung, die ausgearbeitet wird, sicherstellen, dass es religionsfreiheit gibt für muslime, für christen, für alle bekenntnisse und die würde aller menschen in ägypten akzeptiert wird. dazu gehört auch, dass ägypten ein offenes land wird. dazu steht im widerspruch, dass man am 4. juni dieses jahres die vertreter von vielen internationalen stiftungen, darunter auch die konrad-adenauer-stiftung, mit hohen haftstrafen belegt hat – im fall der adenauer-stiftung einmal fünf jahre, einmal zwei jahre, obwohl diese personen sich für ägypten engagiert haben und nicht gegen die gesetze verstoßen haben. wir wollen ein offenes ägypten, in dem stabilität herrscht. aber stabilität bedeutet auch demokratie und freiheit. ich hoffe, dass die sehnsüchte der jungen menschen, die ich im märz 2011 auf dem tahrir-platz erlebt habe, sich in ägypten verwirklichen, dass sie in einer lebensordnung leben, die sich auf würde, demokratie, freiheit und solidarität gründet.
mr president, madam high representative, lady ashton, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank you and your staff for your commitment and dedication. they have also made us, as the european parliament, known to the world public. the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. a pluralistic and tolerant social order, respecting fundamental rights and freedoms, can only be established through conciliatory dialogue. the basic conditions for this are that men and women are treated equally, that all religions are respected and integrated - especially coptic christians - and that all minorities are protected. it is only in this sense that our humanitarian aid can be used. all actors who have used or incited violence must be subjected to fair trials that respect human rights and the rule of law. the muslim brotherhood must also be held accountable. value-based and value-based partnership, that must be our goal. thank you for your efforts.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to thank ms giannakou for her report, even though we have severe differences. i do not agree with you, ms giannakou, on your proposal that we should use the eu budget to finance all kinds of defence projects, including buying drones together. but what really upsets me is the gomes report. from my point of view this is a report from fantasyland. this report earnestly proposes that the eu should seek global naval power protection from the arctic to the antarctic. it earnestly proposes that we should build up a capability of deterrents in the black sea region, combined with the ability to mobilise eu naval assets. which eu is she talking about? the strong maritime dimension of csdp should put the eu in a position of acting internationally as an effective international arbiter. what eu is she talking about? i think ms gomes is suffering from a severe bout of imperial nostalgia. if we adopt this report, we will be making ourselves a laughing stock in international security circles. this, colleagues, i think we should not do. please, vote this down. it is ridiculous.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not whatever the region, whatever the foreign policy problem, the answer to a lot of things is more military, more equipment, more operations, and please do it all together. the report by mrs giannakou reads like the wish list of the arms industry. it is a summation of all the financial and institutional possibilities that can be envisaged to turn the ever-so-swerving union of peace into a military giant. a real civilian power does not need a huge military apparatus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, such as the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the establishment of a european defence agency, the european defence agency, etc. the report by mrs gomes on the maritime aspects of the csdp follows the same philosophy. there is no question of combating the causes. their response is increasingly violence and military to enforce and protect their interests. in her report, mrs gomes stresses that global maritime affairs must be regulated to avoid a struggle for resources and the destruction of the ecological base, which could lead to international conflict and militarisation. but mrs gomes, this scenario is already a reality. and the eu is a co-trigger and a beneficiary. it is above all the european appetite for fish and our toxic waste that gave birth to atalanta. changing that would be a sensible first step towards greater security.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank marietta giannakou and ana gomes for their reports. i shall concentrate on the giannakou report. it shows where we stand in terms of our military structures and where we have shortcomings. we often cannot respond quickly and effectively enough to crises. if you want to play a role in foreign policy, you must have the entire foreign policy toolbox at your disposal. we can only be soft power if we can also be hard power. to do this, we must adapt our existing structures to the crises that are coming, where the us is asking us to take care of ourselves in our own neighbourhood, and where every defence minister is saving uncoordinatedly. i really want to ask the question again: what if we in europe - for my sake - had an acute crisis somewhere in the balkans, i do not name any country, and we depended on nato intervening - even the european partners - and then, for example, turkey would veto it? we are blocked if it is within the nato framework, and that cannot be discussed. that is why i believe we need autonomous capacities and skills. the summit in december is extremely important for this. it must be used, among other things, for a defense review, an inventory, to know what we have and what we still need. if we are to overcome our deficits in terms of capacity and skills, we should also strengthen existing institutions. i am thinking in particular of the european defence agency, which has been given tasks in the eu treaty and which must also be equipped with the necessary means. this agency has great potential to coordinate activities with member states in the areas of procurement, harmonisation of operational needs, multilateral projects, pooling and sharing and strengthening the european defence technological and industrial base.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think it is very important that we should be talking today about maritime security, and i would like to focus on mrs gomes' report. mrs gomes, you were not quite right when you said that the eu's integrated maritime policy has not dealt with this at all until now. i do not think that is correct, because in the integrated maritime policy - i was rapporteur in 2010 - we also said from the outset that maritime safety aspects are important, not just in terms of environmental protection and illegal activities, but in general. and we have said on many occasions in the european parliament that a european coastguard must be considered. the fight against piracy has been raised here several times in the last three years by the transport committee, most recently in a joint inter-committee resolution. and that's where we're facing new challenges: the armed escorts have had a deterrent effect in the horn of africa, where development policy is also called upon to do something as an eu. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. in short, it is good that the commission is now working on a european maritime safety strategy - it has been raised - and i think that we in the european parliament should really follow it up successfully!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. since the rigged presidential election, the brutal crackdown on protests and the intensified persecution of the opposition, relations between the eu and belarus have been extremely tense. the situation of human rights has not changed: there are still political prisoners and the country is still ruled with an authoritarian, hard-line hand. but without the release of the prisoners and without an end to the repression, the sanctions against belarus must remain in place and, where they have shown weaknesses, be reinforced and completed. nevertheless, it was right that we did not abandon belarus as a hopeless case and exclude it from the eastern partnership programme. this report describes a number of possible approaches. the important thing is that we stick to our values and do not fall for lukashenko's policy of swaying again. the main contact person for us remains civil society the unfulfilled hopes for a free country after the collapse of the soviet union, which svetlana alexiyevich describes so impressively. it is all the more strange, commissioner füle, that your house has changed the guidelines for supporting ngos in belarus in such a way that even established ngos are no longer receiving money. that must be changed immediately and i hope that our motion for a resolution will be accepted tomorrow.
member of the commission. − madam president, the eastern partnership summit in vilnius is fast approaching. it promises to mark a momentous step forward in our political association and economic integration with several of our eastern european neighbours. clearly, and wrongly, this is seen in some quarters as a threat. as a result, we have seen enormous pressure being brought to bear upon some of our partners. the european union has always been perfectly clear about its policy towards its eastern neighbours. our common interests dictate that we should work with our eastern neighbours to build a zone of prosperity and stability on our continent. already the existing partnership and cooperation agreement signed in 1994 foresaw the development of a free trade area. feasibility studies launched in 2004 led to the development of so-called ‘deep and comprehensive free trade areas’ (dcftas) as an integral part of the new enhanced agreements subsequently known as association agreements proposed in 2006. the first dcfta negotiations started with ukraine in 2008 as soon as it had become a member of the wto, the world trade organization. the commission’s communication of 2008 then laid the basis for the offer extended to our eastern partners at the prague summit establishing the eastern partnership in 2009 and confirming our joint objective of political association and economic integration underpinned by those association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade areas. from the beginning parliament has strongly supported this approach of transforming this part of europe both politically and trade-wise. it is true that customs union membership is not compatible with the dcfta which we have negotiated with ukraine, the republic of moldova, george and armenia. this is not because of some ideological differences. this is not about a clash of economic blocks or a zero sum game. this is due to legal impossibilities. for instance, you cannot at the same time lower your customs tariffs as per the dcfta and increase them as a result of customs union membership. the new generation of association agreements will bring enormous transformative benefits through legal approximation, regulatory convergence and market liberalisation. independent studies indicate that a dcfta will bring substantial benefits. exports to the european union could double over time, leading to an increase in gdp of up to approximately 12%. but in order to implement these our partners must enjoy full sovereignty over their own trade policies, which members of the customs union will not. it may certainly be possible for members of the eastern partnership to increase their cooperation with the customs union, perhaps as observers, and participation in a dcfta is of course fully compatible – let me stress that – fully compatible with our partners’ existing free trade agreements with other commonwealth of independent states’ organisations. let me be clear. the development of the eurasian union project must respect our partners’ sovereign decisions. any threats from russia linked to the possible signing of agreements with the european union are unacceptable. this applies to all forms of pressure, including the possible misuse of energy pricing, artificial trade obstacles such as import bans of dubious wto compatibility and cumbersome customs procedures, military cooperation and security guarantees and the instrumentalisation of protracted conflicts. this is not how international relations should function in our continent in the 21st century. such action clearly breached the principle to which all european states have subscribed. in the helsinki principles of the osce we have committed to respect each country’s ‘right freely to define and conduct as it wishes its relations with other states in accordance with international law’. the european union will support and stand by those who are subject to undue pressure. let me emphasise that association agreements/dcftas are not conceived at russia’s expense. on the contrary, russia will also benefit greatly from the integration of the eastern partnership countries into the wider european economy. our vision is that these agreements should contribute in the long-term to the eventual creation of a common economic space from lisbon to vladivostok based on wto rules. so we encourage our partners to deepen their ties with russia, as we do ourselves, but in a way which is compatible with the association agreement and deep and comprehensive free trade areas’ obligations. the european union is ready to work with its neighbours to find ways to promote greater regulatory convergence between eu member states and the customs union. the last thing we want to see is a protectionist wall cutting our continent in two. in today’s ever more competitive global economy we cannot afford to waste our efforts on a regional geopolitical rivalry.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. thank you very much for your input in an extremely difficult situation. we have always been in favour - parliament, with a large majority, as well as the commission and the council - of the free choice of the peoples of europe. the european union has a duty to ensure that the people of europe have a free choice in what they want to do, what they want to be part of, how they want to work with other countries, in what alliances, associations or whatever it is that they want to do. this is the heart and soul of the helsinki convention and international law, and it is the sovereign decision of each state. these decisions should not be taken in brussels or in russia, but in tbilisi and kiev and other places, as is in the interest of the country concerned. that's why we have to make the offers. that is why it is unacceptable for a country like russia to use trade policy instruments, energy prices or whatever to influence this decision in such a way that it is no longer a free decision, or in the case of armenia even to introduce security policy arguments and pressure instruments. and i think that is why this is also a question of the future shape of this europe, a europe of the free nations who must make it possible. i therefore think it is right that we clarify this position, that we work towards a success of vilnius, that if conditions are met, on the part of the european union and the countries according to their respective level of development, we will come to initialising or to the possibility of signing, that this will also be seen in the countries. and i see that in a number of countries there are prospects that this will be done for vilnius. we should also encourage these countries to take these final steps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i think we must also back this up and make it clear that we are willing to make this possible. that is why i would ask us to show a special precision here over the next four to eight weeks to make vilnius a success.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i fully agree with the description of the situation you have given here, commissioner füle, and also with your position on this conflict. president putin has so far taken great pains to present his political project of a eurasian union as if he were adopting the experience, the standards, the values of the eu, and the fear that a new soviet union would be created here, that is, that it would involve the reintegration of the former soviet republics, is not justified. and now we are witnessing a blatant and shameless pressure and blackmail on those countries which have not yet joined this customs union or the eurasian union. and normally in moscow you would have to ask yourself why this hasn't happened, why this eurasian union is not so attractive. because we no longer want to feel the russian hegemony that we are now experiencing through these customs barriers and all the harassment that has been done there. i think we must clearly reject this on the one hand, and on the other hand we must continue where we have been in the eastern partnership. there are positive developments in this respect: some association agreements are about to be concluded, and in the case of ukraine we have an association agreement in place. i would just like to say that this blackmail and pressure from moscow should not be a license to let up and think that the conditions we have set do not have to be met. so i think we're looking forward to vilnius!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the european parliament's draft resolution contains a key phrase which illustrates the whole dilemma of the eastern neighbourhood policy: the european union must defend the countries concerned against russia. what fight? what's the situation? the neighbourhood policy is far from a success story: armenia, belarus, azerbaijan, georgia, ukraine. differences of interest in international relations are normal, but conflicts of interest are not. and the one we're talking about today is homemade. the eastern neighbourhood policy is geostrategically directed against russia, and this approach will only further the spiral even before vilnius. yes, mr brok, commissioner, russia must refrain from putting pressure on its neighbours, because the real addressee is the european union, and the pressure is also due to domestic political reasons! the neighbourhood policy must be put where it belongs: cooperation, where there are common interests and challenges, and then of course also with russia. if you do not want to do this, you should tell the citizens of the neighbouring countries, the eu member states and russia that they will pay for it in the end! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – i fully understand that, but that means that we have to intend in our policy nevertheless to try to find ways to build bridges with the russian federation and to show that our policy towards the eastern neighbourhood countries is not aimed or directed against the russian federation but must help overcome this strategic game and play then in the interests of the people and the citizens in all the countries affected.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. (speaker speaking without a microphone.) [...] mr president, did i understand correctly that the dogmatic shortcomings of the european union are the question of the rule of law, democracy, respect for judicial reform and electoral reform and selective justice? i believe that in this crisis too, these should be the requirements we have clearly set out in order to achieve our common objective. do you consider this to be dogmatic shortcomings?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our neighbours to the east have been free states since the collapse of the soviet union. we are also happy when they come to our values and standards and find their way alongside us. we also understand that there are historically strong ties between the people of these countries and russia. and we also accept - if they so choose - the wish of our partners to be closely linked to russia, or to russia in the first place. but what we cannot accept are the crude attempts of the russian government and its companies to blackmail these states into their arms. this is absolutely unacceptable to us. however, i do not think that this is a cause for alarm, but a reason for making it clear to our partners first and foremost that we are not leaving you alone, we are going to give you concrete support. not to buy these countries, but to protect them from blackmail. and to be clear, we also want to make it clear once again on the way to vilnius that our common agreement is more for more and not more for maybe. we should make this clear to these countries, and perhaps to the people, even more than we have done so far. we will continue to have a dialogue with russia. but the one thing we shouldn't do is give the russian government an excuse for false pr. that is why i reject the language of the cold war, even if it comes from us, even if it slips out of us, and i do not support recital g and paragraph 7.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr kelly, perhaps i have misunderstood you. do you want to show russia the red flag or the red card? what do you want to tell us? what does that mean, red card to russia? what's mr. fule going to do tomorrow? these are simple phrases that sound good, but they do not help us in any way. don't you agree? it's supposed to be a question.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the international agreement on the nagoya protocol must be the guideline for our implementation in the european union. it is now necessary to ensure that this good international basis for europe is not complicated and made more difficult by unnecessary obligations, reporting obligations and documentation. this is also a question of europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries. it is therefore essential that the eu biodiversity compliance requirements take into account the specific role of genetic resources for the food industry and agriculture. there is a continuing need to promote agricultural research, as this is the only way to reconcile the challenges of world food security with the need to ensure that the benefits of the use of genetic resources are shared by all. the value and importance of the plant variety right in the field of plant variety rights was already recognised in the discussions in the european parliament which led to the adoption of the community patent package. the declaration of 10 may 2012 on the patenting of essentially biological processes also took a strong stand on this issue. this basic principle must be upheld. it provides legal certainty for the users of agricultural innovations, while ensuring that there is a balance of benefits for the use of genetic resources. farmers must continue to have access to the genetic resource for use in the form in which it was originally retrieved by the first user. i am counting on a balanced and workable conclusion to the implementation of the nagoya protocol in the european union. i ask that the commissioner be given a negotiating mandate so that europe can remain in the negotiations and that they are not decided without us.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we also want the eu and the member states to have an internal security strategy, and we supported the rapporteur in that. the most important question for us is the balance between security and freedom for the citizens. this relationship must be clearly defined. and i hear nothing but talk from the commission. citizens must not be oppressed by repressive security strategies - but it looks very much like it. the rule of law principle, that the state is there for the citizen and not the other way around, this rule of law principle must be the guideline and must be the goal of such a strategy. you know, i'm honestly skeptical that we're going to get anywhere with the strategies that we've had and the strategies that we're going to have. in view of the facts surrounding the nsa scandal, what is the commission doing to prevent the snooping of millions of eu citizens by the intelligence services? what do you do in this case of state organized crime? because that's what it is at its core! what are you doing to actually protect the rights of freedom, privacy and - as you always say so nicely - also the security of citizens in this matter? by not doing anything about the scandalous spying on citizens, you lower the threshold of suspicion. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. mass surveillance does not make us safer, it makes us less safe. they are a security problem and must be fought.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr nikolaos salavracos, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report 2012 on the activities of the european ombudsman (2013/2051 (ini)) (a7-0257/2013).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's good to have you back. i have to ask you, mr diamandouros. comparing the figures of the past years, it is easy to see that our european ombudsman, mr diamandouros, did a very good job in 2012 as well. 740 of the 2400 complaints received fell within the ombudsman's remit. the number of investigations launched as a result was almost 20% higher than in the previous year and was at an all-time high. the special report on vienna airport, which i regard as the highlight of the cooperation between the ombudsman, the committee on petitions and the commission, has already been mentioned as an example. that's how you have to deal with critical issues. the result: more than 22 000 citizens were directly helped. i think that is an amazing and, above all, a very pleasing result. in addition to dealing with complaints, mr diamandouros also published five principles for public service: commitment to the european union, integrity, objectivity, respect for others and transparency - values that every single staff member of the institutions and every member should embrace! a new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour was also published. mr diamandouros, i would like to conclude by thanking you not only for your work in 2012, but above all for your extraordinary commitment over the last ten years. you have been in office since 2003 and have built an efficient network of european ombudsmen and helped thousands of citizens. they have helped to make the administration more efficient and transparent and have significantly shaped the ombudsman's office. of course, one can ask: can the office of the european ombudsman be improved? can the work between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions be improved? of course you can, but we can only do it because you have left us a great legacy! i wish you all the best, and i would say it's a pity he's leaving.
i would like to thank you, mr kelly, and especially myself, for the punctual landing at your time of speaking, as the only one this morning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm very happy to see you here. i wish you, mr diamandouros, all the best for the rest of your life and thank you for the excellent ten years you have worked within the european union. the latest survey showed that 52% of eu citizens surveyed see the ombudsman's role as being to convey and inform them of their rights. this is the right way, but it is still too little. i think more people need to know about this and they need to be better informed. i am also glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the subject. if i researched the numbers correctly, we only received 2,442 complaints in 2012 that's definitely not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. but i also think that 42% of citizens think that the eu administration is not transparent, and that is why there is a lot of work to be done, but thank you again for your work, mr diamandouros!
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the european parliament and the council. it shows how you have fulfilled this important and indispensable role. and i have the pleasure of thanking you very briefly for the wishes that have been addressed to me personally.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr thomas händel on crossborder collective bargaining and transnational social dialogue (2012/2292 (ini)) (a7-0258/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin this report by clearing up a misunderstanding which has probably never been made in any report in this european parliament before. the report does not deal with the question of european collective bargaining, i.e. cross-border collective bargaining. this is the level below: transnational operating agreements between or for different locations of european companies in different member states. their numbers have increased considerably in recent years. they are now an integral part of the social dialogue that is so often praised. the reason for this is the interest of many enterprises in standardizing the structure of their production and thus also the working conditions. restructuring is often the reason. although there are many national rules for such company agreements - and this is not the intention of this report - they do not apply to european crossborder agreements. it is true that the number is relatively small, but we do not need to deal with that today. but we are arranging something for the future which is urgently needed for its design and for legal clarification. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. what is the report trying to achieve? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this would create the condition that the parties to such an agreement, including the employees, can actually enforce their rights under such agreements with substantive legal effect. three points need to be dealt with in particular. firstly, it is important that the representative european trade union associations and the respective management bodies are responsible for such agreements, and only they are responsible. it is not possible that some small non-representative associations suddenly make agreements that then disrupt the whole social fabric. secondly, it is important that the european works councils are naturally involved in such negotiations. thirdly, and this is particularly important, it must be ensured that such agreements do not interfere with collective bargaining at national level, particularly in terms of wages and working time. the ecr, alde and epp want to remove from this report paragraph 8, which clearly regulates this in this own-initiative report. i say that those who want to remove this want to interfere with the autonomy of the collective bargaining system, want to interfere with the substance of the matter and do not want to prevent further social degradation through such agreements. i ask you to reject that explicitly. thirdly, it is particularly important to emphasize that such agreements should always be based on the most favourable conditions for the workers and should not involve any social regression. the report now being drawn up, despite the large majority in the committee on employment, is aimed at achieving exactly that, and i ask you to reject it. in the form in which it has been presented, this report is a complete success for social progress in europe. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one. let us ask the commission to provide a legal framework for this system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by nathalie griesbeck on the situation of unaccompanied minors in the eu (2012/2263 (ini)) (a7-0251/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank mrs thyssen in particular. today we are taking a big step forward towards european unification! national regulators have failed dramatically in the years before the crisis to detect and prevent this crisis. this is also due to the fact that the relationship between banking institutions and national supervisors was too close. that is why the european parliament has been calling since 2010 across the political groups for the large banks to be subject to european supervision and for a european banking union, including a european resolution unit and a corresponding resolution fund. today is the day when we take the question of banking supervision off the hands of the banking lobby at the national level. but it also means that if we concentrate banking supervision at european level today - as far as the big banks are concerned - at the european central bank, then this leads to a concentration of political power. the concentration of political power requires democratic control strong parliamentary democratic control. that is why it was so crucial, and it is so crucial, that we have ensured that the european parliament is given strong powers of scrutiny. we will appoint the chairmen of the new supervisory board. we will have an election and not just one candidate or one candidate will be replaced. we will also appoint the vice-chairman, who will come from the european central bank, and we will of course make sure that the person is serious about democratic control. thirdly, we have the right to call for investigations if the new european supervision does not work properly. we can do this under the high hurdle, under the high threshold of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. we will not be able to see the minutes of the new supervisory board - of course not if they involve business secrets - but at least parliament will know the rest, because a parliament that knows nothing cannot control anything. what is important for the citizens and for the financial institutions concerned is more european cooperation, more european unity. this does not mean less democracy, but in this case more democracy, because the rights we have as the european parliament are stronger than the rights that national parliaments have so far vis-à-vis their banking supervisors. nevertheless, the present solution is only a second best solution. the european parliament did not favour the european central bank taking over the supervision. it is thanks to the european treaties that we have not been able to separate monetary policy from fiscal policy as strictly as we would have liked. we have done the maximum, and the council has also made important contributions. it is regrettable, however, that we cannot supervise the large insurance companies in the same way as the european banks, when they are intertwined with them. it was also bitter that the price for this common european banking supervision was to accept changes in the voting rules of the eba of the european banking supervision . in future, there will be fewer qualified majority decisions. there's a more complicated voting behavior; that's something that needs to be changed. however, parliament has reached the conclusion that both the european banking authority and the new banking supervision at the european central bank will have to treat small banks in a proportionate way in the future, and that they will have to be careful that more joint supervision does not lead to the equalisation of specificities in business models. what are we going to do? we also need the next steps in the banking union quickly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. that is why we need a european resolution authority and a european resolution fund as soon as possible. and we as a parliament must now do our job. we need to appoint the chairs as soon as possible so that the new supervisory board can work. we should ensure that the balance sheets of banks are rigorously and independently audited. we must ensure that we do our monitoring work thoroughly and create the institution for it within our parliament. in particular, we must ensure that monetary policy and supervision are really separated within the ecb, as we have agreed.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the need for a european banking union and a european banking supervision is beyond doubt for me as it is for the vast majority of this house. but i have my doubts about the way in which this banking supervision is being constructed. first of all - and this has been noted by others - the problem remains that banking supervision remains confined to the euro area and limited, rather than extended to the whole of the internal market. so basically, the patchwork we had before is preserved, only that some patches have been joined together and now form a big patchwork. it remains the problem of the ecb. there has been a lot of discussion in econ and the negotiating team about whether or not the ecb should be given supervision. i believe that this creates a permanent tension with the eba. this tension will be difficult to resolve. another point is the ecb's growing power. this too has been discussed sufficiently and in many ways. but it is also clear from the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement that it is difficult to get a handle on the problem of how to control the ecb and banking supervision. i think we've accomplished a great deal. the negotiators have achieved a great deal, but there remains a great question mark as to how this problem can be solved in the long term. i think that there are serious design flaws in this respect. it is the second attempt in this parliament to establish a european banking supervision. the first attempt has more or less failed. i have my doubts whether this second attempt, which is also only a partial solution, will really help to stabilise the banking sector or whether it will not create more problems than it is willing and able to solve. these shortcomings - i can only agree with sven giegold - are not the responsibility of the negotiating team, but of the eu treaty, the treaty of lisbon. but here is where the council comes in. the council is the only institution that can make a difference at this point. and i think it is really up to the council now to create the conditions, to create the contractual conditions, so that a comprehensive banking union, as called for and described by the previous speakers, can now be established and enforced in the next few years. i hope that the council is aware of this responsibility and will take up this responsibility as soon as possible!
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
we now come to the reports by mr giegold on the establishment of a european supervisory authority and a european banking supervision and by mrs thyssen on the transfer of specific tasks relating to the supervision of credit institutions to the ecb. in this context, our negotiating team, which has been negotiating with the european central bank, asked me last week to bring the remaining points, which have not been settled by consensus, to a conclusion with the president of the european central bank, mr draghi. i have had five meetings with mr draghi since last thursday and have reached a result which i voted yesterday with our rapporteurs and the representatives of the political groups and with mrs bowles, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and which was approved by all those people. i have now agreed with mr draghi and our rapporteurs that i will read the text which we and the european central bank want to put on our respective websites today as a result of our negotiations before we go to the votes. i read it in english:declaration by the president of the european parliament and the president of the european central bank on the occasion of the european parliament's vote for the adoption of council regulation (eu) no .../2013 conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions. in line with the provisions of council regulation (eu) no .../2013, and in particular article 20 thereof, we, the presidents of the european parliament and of the european central bank, hereby declare our full support for the draft text of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on cooperation on procedures related to the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) agreed between our respective negotiating teams. we therefore call on our two institutions to formally adopt the interinstitutional agreement as soon as possible. it provides for a high degree of accountability of the european central bank in the exercise of its tasks under the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) vis-à-vis the european parliament as well as adequate safeguards for the protection of confidential information. the draft interinstitutional agreement provides in particular for strong parliamentary oversight of the ecb's supervisory tasks through regular exchanges of views with parliament's responsible committee, confidential oral discussions with the bureau of that committee, and further access to information including to a record of proceedings of the supervisory board. the ecb's cooperation with the european parliament in the framework of its investigations is thus ensured. in addition, the draft iia specifies the parliamentary involvement in the selection procedure of the chair of the supervisory board. in view of our common objective to move as quickly as possible with the establishment of this ssm as an important step towards a full banking union, our two institutions intend to progress rapidly with the first selection procedure for the appointment of the chair of the supervisory board. the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's commitment to its implementation. other if the giegold and thyssen reports are now adopted, this declaration will be signed by both sides immediately afterwards and published on the respective websites of the institutions. (applause from the centre) i would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to thank our negotiating team. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur, mrs thyssen and mr giegold, but also all the members of the committee and, in particular, the honourable members who have been negotiating with the ecb. sometimes things happen in secret that are of extreme importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the submission of the ecb's supervisory body to the parliamentary supervision of the european parliament is of a dimension which i believe we have not had in the european union until now. i would therefore like to reiterate that the outcome of the crisis in the european union can also be resolved in a transparent and effective manner in public debate, especially if it is promoted by the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the negotiators who spent the entire summer break on the negotiations. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to point out a misunderstanding which has played a part in the debate on this report this morning: it is not a question of european collective bargaining. the collective bargaining autonomy of the social partners remains unaffected. the agreements are at european level and cover several sites. that needs to be corrected. there is no european legal framework for these. if you want to ask the commission to draw up such a legal framework, please accept the original text in paragraph 6. if you want to avoid interference with national collective agreements and collective agreements, please also accept the original text of paragraph 8. anything else would be poison to this report. i am particularly pleased to address the conservatives. we have adopted this report by a large majority in the committee. i would also ask you to vote in favour of this report. it will be good for the further development of social dialogue.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was happy to vote for the whole iluc package to be reviewed, to be referred back, because i simply believe that we are putting local agriculture at risk and, as a result, rural jobs. my favorite simple example: we talk about a protein strategy in the european union all the time. a protein food of choice is rapeseed. rapeseed must be extracted because rapeseed in its original state is not good for feed. this extraction produces oil in a ratio of 60 to 40. oil is a typical by-product - one might even say a waste product. this is precisely the production strategy that would have been severely disadvantaged by the current iluc strategy. it's just not there. i would therefore ask all members to think again about this: europe is producing sustainable, environmentally sound production of renewable raw materials and we should not jeopardise this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european eel stock is facing a myriad of problems: overfishing, loss of important habitats, pollution, parasites and changes in ocean currents. it is important to remember that there is not just one cause, but many. and what makes matters worse is that these causes are not yet fully understood. the problem is that you can't tell how many eels you have. it is therefore right that this report should give the commission the appropriate powers. the commission is therefore empowered to adopt delegated acts, including to adopt appropriate pricing measures, in order to give priority to those fisheries which contribute to the increase or maintenance of eel stocks. at the same time, the commission shall be empowered to adopt implementing acts for the adoption of eel management plans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just have one question. the first vote yesterday was on alfonsi. i had filed a ballot for alfonsi. why has it not been called?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also spoke once again on the annual report of the european ombudsman also as coordinator of the committee on petitions. because i think it's very, very important that we have an ombudsman in europe. it's important that we have a petition committee. the figures speak for themselves: 2400 complaints received in 2012 alone 740 were handled by the ombudsman and the number of investigations opened on these increased by 20%. on the last point in particular, when it comes to objections, when it comes to comments, there is excellent cooperation at the moment between the committee on petitions, the ombudsman and, ultimately, the commission. these are often critical questions. in this respect, the committee on petitions and the ombudsman are fighting on the same front. i wish the outgoing ombudsman all the best for his future in private life and hope for a good cooperation with the new ombudsman.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also very satisfied with the report. of course, money can often break friendships. the european central bank has been a key player in the development of the euro. the european parliament has been consistent and well advised in calling for this. it is not possible that we should vote on many matters of the european union and that we should not have a say in the european central bank, where important matters are concerned, where things that may threaten our existence are concerned. we've got it on the finish line. i would also like to thank the european central bank for its insight and my colleagues. we must now ensure that this democratic control is also given life, that the reporting obligation is actually respected and that we have a say in the european central bank's candidates for management positions. overall, this is a hopeful sign.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation of a single european banking supervisor because it represents a very important further step towards completing the banking union. it is also an important step towards overcoming the financial crisis and ensuring financial stability for the future.
in writing. − the euro area is taking a major step towards establishing a genuine banking union and deepening monetary union by placing banking supervision at the ecb. the lack of cooperation between national supervisors and differences in the application of regulatory requirements have contributed to the financial crisis, among other factors. central oversight at the ecb is designed to ensure uniform supervision of all financial institutions in the euro area. i welcome the fact that non-euro area member states are also able to join the new supervisory system on an equal footing. it is unfortunate, however, that they have a right of withdrawal if they do not agree with the decision of the new supervisor. the ecb has committed to organising and staffing the new supervisory function in such a way that conflicts of interest between monetary policy responsibilities and supervision are excluded from the outset. however, there is a residual doubt as the board of governors remains the final decision-making body for both activities. i am very pleased with the compromise reached on the ecb's accountability in its supervisory activities. both the european parliament and the national parliaments now have access to the information they need to legitimise democratically the supervision.
in writing. - the vote today on european banking supervision is a quantum leap! we have created more than a central basis for curbing excessive speculation in the financial sector. european banking supervision, centralised at the ecb, will ensure effective supervisory coordination and significantly enhance market security. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european monetary system is fully operational and that the european central bank is fully accountable to the european parliament. this is also important for small and medium-sized banks. the ecb here in frankfurt am main will cooperate constructively with national administrations. cooperation with the european banking authority is important for the supervision of financial institutions beyond the euro area. this eba remains competent for those banks within the member states which are not subject to the supervision of the ecb. in the future, transparency will be created, which many did not expect. the ecb has succeeded in submitting itself to the control of our ep by being accountable to us, the people's representatives. i'm very happy about this compromise. it is essential to better protect taxpayers, to restore morale in financial markets and to stimulate public debate to rebuild trust in political action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creation of a single european banking supervisor because it represents a very important further step towards completing the banking union. it is also an important step towards overcoming the financial crisis and ensuring financial stability for the future.
in writing. − the euro area is taking a major step towards establishing a genuine banking union and deepening monetary union by placing banking supervision at the ecb. the lack of cooperation between national supervisors and differences in the application of regulatory requirements have contributed to the financial crisis, among other factors. central oversight at the ecb is designed to ensure uniform supervision of all financial institutions in the euro area. i welcome the fact that non-euro area member states are also able to join the new supervisory system on an equal footing. it is unfortunate, however, that they have a right of withdrawal if they do not agree with the decision of the new supervisor. the ecb has committed to organising and staffing the new supervisory function in such a way that conflicts of interest between monetary policy responsibilities and supervision are excluded from the outset. however, there is a residual doubt as the board of governors remains the final decision-making body for both activities. i am very pleased with the compromise reached on the ecb's accountability in its supervisory activities. both the european parliament and the national parliaments now have access to the information they need to legitimise democratically the supervision.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it seeks to give more powers to the european central bank, despite the fact that it has played a destructive role in the economies of the southern european countries. although the european parliament has clearly been complicit in the crimes committed by the financial sector against the citizens of europe, this report is intended to give it greater credibility by placing the powers of supervision of the financial system in its hands. this is a further step towards the development of a banking union which will impose its will on the member states through economic strangulation. today it is the countries of the south, tomorrow it will be others, until we guarantee that the profits of capital prevail over the will of the peoples of any member state. for these reasons i have voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why is the nagoya protocol working? the aim is to establish a convention on biological diversity, which will lay down a set of rules on access to genetic resources and the corresponding balance of benefits. that all sounds good. but we must be careful, of course, to protect the free access to genetic resources. this is true for agriculture as a whole, but also for our smaller livestock and plant breeding operations. i would like to start by saying that i am glad that we have been able to achieve many improvements in the agricultural sector. i would also like to thank our coordinator, mr albert deß, for his work. i must say, on the other hand, that i am also glad that we have postponed the final vote. that gives us time to discuss it again in peace. i think a lot of colleagues are going about this the wrong way. it is also a matter of protecting farmers' privilege, simple and poignant. it is about really guaranteeing free access to genetic resources. in this sense, i wish to be well advised.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have voted in favour of most of the motions in the bélier report today and i am glad that the majority has voted in favour of this report. the report is a prerequisite for the implementation of the nagoya protocol on the protection of genetic resources in the eu, in order to preserve biodiversity. the committee on agriculture calls for the eu to develop a biodiversity strategy for the period up to 2020 in order to contribute to halting the loss of biodiversity worldwide by 2020. i am also glad that the final vote has been suspended. this will enable the negotiations to proceed.
in writing. − the recent data theft incident at vodafone in germany shows that many users' data has not been checked for security against data theft, but that companies still do not take protection against data theft too seriously. the strategy for enhanced cybersecurity therefore needs to be an important step towards raising awareness among citizens and businesses. i thank all my colleagues for making this strategic resolution possible in this way, and i assure you as rapporteur that my report on cybersecurity legislation will take up the elements and lead to a minimum standard of cybersecurity and protection of sensitive data throughout europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too am a firm opponent of a military solution, which can only be a last resort. in that case, it would make the problems worse! we must oppose the strengthening of the extremist forces in the government, but also the islamists in the opposition. we need a dialogue of the moderate forces, moderated by the eu. we must ensure that russia will abandon its bad position of blockade in the un security council and return to contributing to the negotiations, as it may now be. we must above all ensure that the european union is working towards a political solution in syria, which is overdue after more than two and a half years of inaction. i therefore believe that we have taken the right path with this resolution - a path that we can take with pride as christians and as europeans!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was already among those who warned of euphoria in the so-called arab spring. we must not take sides, but must oppose the unacceptable radicalization of the muslim brotherhood on the one hand and the undemocratic and brutal actions of the military on the other. the european union must be a credible moderator here, only then can it play a role in egypt. our goal must be to promote the strong, tolerant traditions that exist in egyptian society and help to renew them. and above all, we must stand up for the copts, who are suffering terribly, who are in danger of being caught between the wheels and who, as christians and the oldest population in egypt, must enjoy our full solidarity and our full support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr putin must finally realise that the soviet union no longer exists and that he cannot and must not create it through the back door of neo-colonialism. that is why the resolution is right, because it targets the decision-making sovereignty of the states formerly oppressed by moscow. but we must also be clear that the resolution is still too weak. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must therefore concentrate on helping our eastern neighbours to use the eastern partnership on the basis of international law to finally resolve the so-called frozen conflicts so that they can no longer be abused. the same applies to georgia and other important partners.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, we welcome the motion for a resolution by the european parliament regarding the situation in the democratic republic of congo, in particular in eastern congo. now we all know that the situation is of great concern and it merits attention. it has already led to the adoption of the council conclusion on the great lakes region in july, two eu statements in august and a high-level mission by the great lakes envoys to the region, led by mary robinson. a few days before the eu-united nations general assembly, during which there will an important side-event among the countries of the region, it is essential that the international community not only speaks up but is seen to work in unison. we share the points raised in the motion for a resolution. the humanitarian situation is appalling, the human rights violations are widespread and i would like to add to this specifically the sexual violence. we also share the call to put an end to the activities of the rebel groups and to re-establish the state authority. we cannot ignore the vital importance of the security sector reform and the need to fight the illegal exploitation of national resources. and we must not be complacent. i am glad to say that the eu is addressing all these points through political dialogue with national and regional actors. as a measure of incentive, the eu is also supporting positive change with both its development and humanitarian instruments. respecting the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the democratic republic of congo is of primary importance. furthermore, the resolution of the crisis in the east of the country implies support in the region. we welcome the positive outcome of the summit of the great lakes presidents in uganda under the leadership of president museveni, which has led to the relaunch of the kampala talks between the m23 movement and the government of the democratic republic of congo. we also express our strong interest in the success of the national dialogue in kinshasa, which was recently opened at the initiative of president kabila. the european union will continue to give its full support to the national, regional and international commitments of the political, security and development framework. together with international and regional partners, we are determined to find lasting solutions to the root of the causes of the problems at the local, national and regional levels.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the central african republic.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the people of the central african republic have suffered terribly from years of fighting and serious human rights violations by armed groups and the army. and although in 2012 several armed groups declared the end of the conflict with the government and committed to disarmament, the serious violations of human rights do not stop. there are extrajudicial killings, kidnappings, looting and even mass executions. people are arrested without charge, and women and girls are raped and used as sex slaves. likewise, many of the armed groups continue to force children to fight and kill for them. the fighting has intensified again recently. this has made it particularly clear that the fragile state structures of law and order have now completely collapsed. i think we're talking about a non-existent justice system. years of violent conflict and a poorly functioning government have resulted in food shortages and high prices, forcing many to flee their homes in search of survival. today, 1.6 million people are in dire need of water, food, shelter and basic health care. the eu is invited to continue its humanitarian assistance and to assist the government of the central african republic in facilitating effective government action. in particular, the eu must work to bring the human rights violations to an end and to hold those who ordered and carried out these crimes to account. it is necessary to set up a joint commission of inquiry for this purpose. the eu should also give it a lot of support!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the draft resolution, because the situation in the central african republic is of greatest concern since the outbreak of the crisis in december 2012. more than five months after the unconstitutional change of government, the central african republic is now moving towards a state of anarchy. over the last weekend alone, more than 60 people were killed in the north-west of the country. this marks an escalation of the religious and communal tension. we strongly condemn the ongoing and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. we share the concern expressed by the parliament and continue to work through all possible channels to ensure respect for human rights and to fight impunity. we will do this jointly with our regional and international partners, as well as the appropriate international fora such as the united nations human rights council. vice-president ashton issued a statement on 25 march 2013 expressing deep concern and underlining that those responsible for human rights abuses will be held to account. we call on the central african republic’s transitional authorities to take concrete measures to restore law and order, to protect the civilian population and to comply with the libreville agreements. we also support the setting up of the african-union-led peace support operation in the central african republic. we are also assisting the efforts of the central african republic government of national unity under the leadership of prime minister tiangaye, notably through an urgent stabilisation programme, funded under the instrument for stability. despite the unprecedented scale of the current crisis, the central african republic risks becoming a forgotten crisis and this should not be the case. thanks to the european parliament, it will not be forgotten. strong international mobilisation to bring the central african republic high on the agenda is crucial, including at united nations level. in this context, let me also recall the statement of 10 september 2013 by my colleague kristalina georgieva, strongly condemning the killing of two aid workers employed by acted, a french ngo, and a humanitarian partner organisation of the european union. it is beyond words and completely unacceptable to target people who are working to save the lives of others. our thoughts are with the families, friends and colleagues of the victims. colleagues, you know that the humanitarian situation is dramatic in the country and that everything must be done to protect the citizens and aid workers and to respect humanitarian principles. security has become a major problem, limiting the ability of aid workers to move around and help the people in need. worse still, killing, executions, torture, physical violence, including sexual violence, extortion, illegal taxation, pillaging and the destruction of houses and fields are affecting the whole life of the country. an already desperately destitute population is being pushed to the limit. commissioner georgieva is organising a high-level ministerial meeting with france and ocha on this subject on 25 september 2013 to raise awareness on the humanitarian needs in the central african republic. the eu will continue to remain actively engaged to assist in close coordination with international partners and the stabilisation of the country in support of the political process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in bahrain.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the kingdom of bahrain is at the centre of a variety of conflicting interests which are shaking the entire arab world: the conflict between sunnis and shiites, the struggle for supremacy between iran and saudi arabia, the conflicts between nationalists and islamists, and conflicting geostrategic and economic interests. and for all these reasons, we are interested in stability there. but stability can only be based on human rights. and so we are grateful for the reform policies that king hamad has introduced after the disaster of 2011. we welcome the ombudsman, we welcome the minister for human rights, we welcome the improved women's policy and many other things. but it says, by their deeds you shall know them, and words must now be followed by deeds. that is why this resolution is justified, but it is also right that it is moderate, that it recognises the reforms but calls for progress.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i shall stress from the beginning that the situation is bahrain is a matter of concern and vice-president ashton has asked me to declare this here. she has been closely following the situation in bahrain since the resurgence of the unrest in february 2011 and has engaged personally with the authorities, including meeting king hamad, as well as bahraini civil society. let me also stress our call on all parties to reject violence and to work together towards a lasting national reconciliation; this should be at the heart of our action. vice-president ashton asked the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, to conduct an extensive visit to bahrain prior to her visit for the gulf cooperation council ministerial meeting on 30 june. on this occasion mr lambrinidis met representatives from the government, the opposition and civil society; he visited prisoners detained for political activities and he reiterated that a reconciliation process requires a combination of moderation and confidence-building steps by everyone, by all sides. this should include the release of all those arrested in the context of peaceful political activities. this is a necessary condition to overcome the deep polarisation of bahraini society. the respect of human rights in bahrain remains an important issue today and a national reconciliation process still has to make progress. i am therefore calling on the authorities to ensure that any new legislation meets international human rights standards and ensures that these are protected and respected in practice. in the last few days we have shared with our bahraini counterparts our concerns regarding the new measures which could lead to deprivation of nationality, as well as regarding the recent decree regulating contacts between political societies and diplomatic missions. we will keep expressing our concerns and monitoring the situation. we will continue to strongly encourage bahrain to implement fully and swiftly the independent commission of inquiry and the universal periodic review recommendations. the european union will also stand ready to provide further support to this end, as we are convinced that this is crucial to build the mutual trust necessary to a sustainable reform process. whilst we appreciate the launch last july of the office of the police ombudsman, we will continue to engage with the authorities on the need to tackle impunity. it is our hope that the new office, combined with the special investigation unit in the public prosecution office, can fulfil its mandate in full independence. i take this opportunity to also welcome the joint declaration on bahrain delivered at the united nations human rights council on 10 september and supported by all member states. i warmly salute the contribution of the european parliament delegation for relations with the arab peninsula following its visit to bahrain at the end of april 2013 and express our appreciation for the balanced recommendations it has issued.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
i would first like to inform you that the commission has sent me a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the internal market for electronic communications and the creation of the interconnected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no 1211/2009 and (eu) no 531/2012. these documents shall be forwarded to the committee on industry, research and energy as the committee responsible and to the committee on culture and education, the committee on legal affairs, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on regional policy as the committees providing advice. * * * * * * * * *
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 12 september 2013.
ladies and gentlemen, i shall ask you to take a moment to remember. if i ask you to do so, then, as always, the members will remain silent in this chamber. it's gonna be quiet in this room, and it's gonna be quiet in here. but in the silence of this room, there are cries of children who see their parents drowning, cries of parents who cannot save their children, cries of people lost in a sea of turbulence, even though they have the shores of the continent in front of them, the shores of the continent they believed to be the continent where they would find protection and hope. these are the cries of people who lost their lives just before they could land on the shores of europe. we are discussing numbers in this context. we're discussing who's going to take in how many refugees and who's not going to take in. we are discussing money in this context: how much does it cost? we are discussing dry paragraphs in this context. we are discussing a circumstance that i could hardly believe: that fishermen who rescue people in such an emergency are threatened with criminal prosecution for aiding illegal immigration. we are discussing this, ladies and gentlemen, as the richest continent in the world. of course, on our continent, wealth is not distributed fairly, we all know that. but we, the citizens of the european union, are - measured by the regions from which the refugees come to us - strong, wealthy and able to help those who flee their misery in the hope of finding shelter and help from us. compared to these people, we are rich and powerful. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but that it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. we should be obliged to give this wealth to the people who seek protection from us. i hope that the minute of silence we will now observe for the victims of this tragedy off lampedusa may be a turning point in eu policy. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 3 october 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the commission to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have had a situation for some days now where, according to the information i have received, the russian authorities are acting very arbitrarily against truck drivers from lithuania. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to finance its own budget. the following measures have been introduced: the russian authorities have as of this morning , without informing the european commission of the reason, imposed a complete ban on imports of all dairy products from lithuania. i think it is unacceptable that we have a situation where russia is targeting a member state which is currently holding the presidency, imposing arbitrary measures there, obviously to exert pressure in the run-up to the neighbourhood summit, and we would be very grateful if we could put a question to the commission here. the question was worked out with colleagues in the committee on external trade from various political groups. we would be very grateful if this item could be adopted. (applause from the centre)
mr swoboda would like to speak in favour of the motion. there you go.
does anyone wish to speak against this motion? that's not the case. then i'll put it to the vote. if you agree, it will be put on the agenda on tuesday after the debate on eu trade relations with taiwan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the question of pilot working hours which we raised at the conference of presidents would be pushed back even further. i think that is very problematic! i would ask you to consider whether we can change this so that pilot working hours are actually discussed here at a time when there can also be a reaction from the pilots and the public.
mrs. zimmer, you are right. the agenda item you mentioned is therefore being moved backwards. but i don't know where else to put the motion, and it was put that way. i'm sorry about that. (parliament adopted the resolution) the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the immediate release of the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages. the council is to take part in this debate. the title of the debate will be: 'statements by the council and the commission on migration flows in the mediterranean, with particular reference to the tragic events near lampedusa'. the ppe group has asked to speak on this.
mrs harms, do you want to speak against the resolution?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's registered with you, too, as far as i know. my group supports the amendment to the title. but to take up what mr swoboda quoted from today's süddeutsche zeitung and to decide whether we are going to have crocodile tears and crocodile speeches or whether something might change, as you said in your speech, mr president, we would like to end this item of the agenda with a resolution.
the request is for a 'debate with a resolution'. as i have received no reply, we have for wednesday, first of all - and this is indisputable - the statements by the council and the commission on migration flows in the mediterranean, with particular reference to the tragic events near lampedusa. i have heard no objection to this. mrs harms has now asked for a supplementary motion: 'with resolution'. mr iacolino has now come forward. there you go.
mr iacolino, i take this as a statement against the resolution. mrs harms has tabled the motion for a resolution, mr iacolino has spoken against it. i now give the floor to mrs zimmer. mrs zimmer, i assume you want to speak in favour of the motion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would very much like to support mrs harms' proposal that we should accompany this item of the agenda with a resolution. i think it is time to say very specifically what needs to be changed - both with regard to italy, of course, but also within the european union and with regard to the responsibility of the member states in general to put an end to this very unworthy and inhuman situation. (applause from the centre)
i shall begin by putting to the vote the amendment to the agenda for wednesday.
i shall first put to the vote whether we are going to put this item on the agenda at all, because that was the motion. (parliament agreed to the amendment to the agenda) we now have two options: a resolution this week or a resolution at the october ii part-session in the light of the reports which mrs malmström and mr barroso will be presenting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we can agree to adopt this resolution at our second part-session in october, then the balance of power has been decided. i also think that we should do so at the second part-session.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (parliament agreed to the tabling of a resolution on the october ii part-session) thursday:the green group requests that a commission statement on the arrest of greenpeace activists in russia be added to the agenda as the first item for thursday. the declaration will then be followed by a round of speeches by the political groups.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already noticed in the preparation of this motion that there is a fear in the political groups that we have too many issues on this plenary agenda which revolve around a conflict with russia and moscow. i think this action is more about how we have to behave, about the importance of greenpeace's role as a major international non-governmental organisation and the importance of its work with these ships. it started with the beluga, it went on to the rainbow warrior, and today it's the arctic sunrise. we have learned of many dangers on the international seas because of the opportunities for non-violent action with these ships. the piracy charge is completely outside what is acceptable. the dutch government will take action on this matter. i also think we should support this ngo. i am in favour of having a debate on thursday and then considering a resolution at the next plenary session, the second plenary session in october.
i shall begin by putting to the vote the green group's request that the commission's statement on the arrest of greenpeace activists be placed first on thursday's agenda. (parliament rejected the request) mrs mcguinness, please explain your alternative proposal again.
mrs. mcguinness, i see your point. but we shall be dealing with entirely different issues on thursday. you can't mix it up like that. i would ask you not to do that either.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should also agree at this point that we will also deal with this subject in 14 days, so that we do not have such an overload on the agenda with russia. i think that this is an important signal to those who are preparing the case for the international maritime tribunal in the netherlands and to others who have detainees from their member states in murmansk, if we decide to do so now.
i would like to make a suggestion to you, mrs harms: i will put the item in the draft agenda which will then have to be discussed in the conference of presidents. the groups can then discuss whether they wish to discuss this at the october ii part-session and, if so, on what day. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer by mr karl-heinz florenz, mr dan jørgensen, mr chris davies, mr bas eickhout, mr martin callanan and mrs sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the state of the european carbon market in 2012 (o-000072/2013 b7-0502/2013) (2012/2900(rsp)).
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. we discussed a resolution on the carbon market report in the european parliament in the committee on the environment last week and we also rejected it. we have rejected it because a majority request has given us an increase in the reduction targets from 20% to 25% by 2020 and we believe that we should not change this figure by 2020, especially because european industry must be able to plan in the context of competitiveness. but that doesn't mean we don't have something to say about it. we are very happy to join in and say that we need massive structural reforms in the area of the carbon leakage strategy for 2030, and for this the european parliament must also express its opinion in a green paper for 2030. it is very important that we come together because we need structural reforms. we must abandon the repair shop of the past. it should be noted that we should not intervene, for example, in the linear reduction factors until 2020, but only in the debate around 2030. then we'll see what it takes. i think it's important to look for a lot more shoulders in the whole co2 debate. we tend to put a lot of pressure on the big companies of this world. we are very soft on some other issues. so we need more shoulders. and for that we need a draft from the commission that at some point tells us where those shoulders are and whether those shoulders are capable of carrying anything at all. another important point is the question of earmarking: so if money is being made from the auctions of the emissions trading systems, then we really have to think about whether all this can only go to the member states - of course a large part has to go there, but we should also earmark money in this area and make it available for innovation and research funds. i think that's an important question. and we've learned, of course, for the next election cycle on co2, that we need more flexibility in the co2 system. we were too rigid, and we had to intervene. we need to be able to react automatically to different market situations. the commission must also take up this challenge. i understand that you, commissioner, have conducted an intensive hearing on this subject in the last few days. i think the commission should make proposals here on how to take account of the so-called different market situations in a flexible system. one of my passionate topics is the question of - and then i almost come to the conclusion, mr president: we have the system of cdm, which means that when european companies sell innovative technology, they get a carbon equivalent worldwide. this co2 counterbalance has flooded our entire co2 system in recent years. that needs to be changed seriously. this will be difficult because it is also a tool which normally helps our smes a lot. but we still have to keep an eye on the flow! and, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to make a passionate appeal to you: please do not touch the carbon leakage list! if we do, our european industry will face the greatest competition problems of all. and this is precisely the industry to which europe owes its prosperity. we must not cut the branch we are sitting on!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we're discussing this without a text. this was not the moment of glory of the environment committee, which we did without blaming any party there. but we don't need this kind of thing too often, we need to tune in better. i have great hope that we will be wiser and act wiser in the debate between the industry committee and the environment committee on the 2030 targets. because the whole system has something to do with trust, too. the emissions trading system has been shaken to its very foundations - it must be said - because it has not done what it should have done, namely to play a guiding role. this is of course also due to the fact that we have uncoordinated national approaches. energy policy is not aligned with the european union's carbon market and this needs to change. it doesn't have to be the other way around. i am glad that we have got backloading through here in parliament and that it will hopefully be in the official journal soon. it's about time. we took an extra year, but we needed that time to discuss with each other where the journey should go in the future. if the debate fails to do that, then everyone else in the world will say at the cop conferences, at cop15 and other conferences: look at this, the europeans pretended it couldn't be done! i'm more positive now. i think we europeans have a sharp sword in our hand there, if we sharpen it again, and then we do better with an emissions trading system than with 28 different tax systems. we are already seeing in the european union that at one point or another something is moving and climate taxes are being introduced. no, we have opted for a regulatory instrument, which is emissions trading. we must strengthen this, we must make this fit for the future! i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. what rate are we talking about? and where are the taxes set? then we have 28 different systems. i think that approach is good, but i think we should go in a different direction, where those who invest early... we're in the middle of the debate on co2 emissions from cars, where we squeeze the last gram of co2 out of the exhaust. but what happens in the factory? if you put a lot of money into your hands, invest in the factory, in low-carbon production processes, then that has to show up in the balance sheet. i think taxes - we don't have the expertise - are not the right approach.
i can't do that normally. i don't like it when people break down customs like that. this is not a wish concert.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i apologize for the delay. i heard that some of them hadn't been there before me, and that's why it went faster than i expected. i regret that we did not adopt the text in committee and would just like to point out once again that the 30% target is unconditional in the election programme of the ruling cdu/csu party in germany. this may be a little ambitious for the eu as a whole, but we will certainly see some discussions in this important member state in the coming months. but i agree with everyone - including richard seeber and others - who have said that we need to focus on the 2030 targets now. it is important that we have three binding objectives which are better coordinated. the promotion of renewable energy must be as cost-effective as possible, and we must continue to avoid carbon leakage. we should be very careful. i agree with karl-heinz florenz that the list should not be touched. what is the target for 2030? this is becoming a crucial issue for the functioning of the emissions trading system. i was very surprised, and i think we all have to take this very seriously, that the british government, the conservative-led british government, has brought 50% into the debate. we are not likely to be able to unite with a large majority for this purpose. but that is an important factor, and we as the european parliament should not be so far from that objective in terms of our commitment and the state of emissions trading.
member of the commission. − mr president, there were a number of members who started also on the 2030 discussion. i think you will understand that i am not going to go too much into that. i hear different views presented by mrs mcguinness and also many others, but we will have to come back to that. so i will just try to address what has been mentioned about the ets. i think that most of the parties recognised the point made by mr groote: that the eu will be better off with one ets instead of 28 different tax systems. i think that is in a way reflected here too in what i have heard as a very constructive debate, with some hands outstretched to others too. and i hope that this approach will pay off when we move to the next phase. because one thing that i believe most people here would agree with is that the problems in the ets – and i hear nobody challenging that there are problems in the ets – will not be solved automatically. they will not solve themselves. mr ferreira and others asked when we will switch from a market-based approach. mrs jordan also asked whether we will move away from a market-based system. i do not think we will, and i have to say, i do not think we should. there is a reason why other major economies, other states, are trying now to implement emissions trading schemes. they are trying to learn from the european union. for instance, we are working with the chinese on exactly how they should construct their upcoming scheme which has now started in some provinces. so i think we should not forget that, despite the challenges, what we have here is still a cost-efficient tool. some of the problems that may exist do not occur because it is a market-based system. i think we all know that. so we should stick to it, partly because that is what we can agree on. i heard mr hénin say we could introduce an ecological tax. oh, could we? do we really believe that the 28 member states would agree on that? i think that, whether we want it or not, most people would agree that we have a market-based system, we have an emissions trading scheme. it has worked, but there has been an economic crisis which has created certain problems in the system that we have to address. so i think that is what we should be working on. i can say for the commission’s part that there is this willingness to adjust it and i think that this is proof to counter claims that we just have a very fundamentalist market approach. we do not. if we had, then of course we would just let things be and see what happens. so in that sense i would also thank mr florenz. i think he has left now, but i would like to thank him for what he mentioned. we need to be able to react to market imbalances and we need a flexible mechanism. i think he stated that very strongly. we will now continue to reduce the six structural options into fewer structural options and then i am sure we will come back to the more long-term issues, and also to the issue of 2030 and exactly how we should construct that.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (doc. b7-0437/2013) by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods (d027417 - 2013/2726 (rps)). the rapporteur did not deliver an opinion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the health claims ordinance, which has been in force since 2006, is a never-ending story. it has not been fully implemented until today. the nutritional profiles are still missing. why are they missing? because it's a concept that is not scientifically viable, it's not viable. the efsa has always said that, large sections of parliament have said that, but ultimately the nutritional profiles were decided as part of this regulation because the european commission, the directorate-general for health, also pushed for it. why aren't the nutrient profiles working? you can't divide food into good and bad food, there's only good and less good diet or lifestyle. and no one survives on a single food all day long. that is why it is pointless to evaluate individual foods. we in the christian-democratic group have always advocated this. the commission now wants to introduce an arbitrary condition of use for a health claim. this is the commission's attempt to introduce nutritional profiles for individual products through the back door. the introduction of a threshold value for sugar as a condition of use is, of course, de facto a nutritional profile. the commission is indeed acting illegally! because it ignores the legal process for establishing nutritional profiles as set forth in article 4 of the health claims regulation. i therefore object to the commission's proposal on this health claim on a fundamental basis. because it is not possible that nutritional profiles for each product are now being introduced through the back door. that is not the purpose of the regulation. it says something completely different, it's supposed to be by food category. if the commission can do that, then nobody will object to the concept being implemented. but it cannot be that here - against the advice of the efsa and also on this particular claim - the commission, individual officials say: we are not interested in what the scientists say, then we will make a claim ourselves, we do not want to have advertised these sugary foods. i'm not in favor of people being fed a lot of advertising that they might... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of commissioner borg i will present the commission’s position on this matter. the commission has proposed to restrict the use of one health claim on ‘carbohydrates and their contribution to the maintenance of normal brain function’ mainly to foods containing complex carbohydrates. these conditions of use would allow the claim to be made on products low in sugars and on products which contain natural sugars: fruits and fruit juices for instance. the conditions of use would prohibit the claim from appearing on a packet of sugar, for example, or on products which contain added sugars, such as cakes, biscuits or soft drinks. at this point i must point out that this health claim at present already appears on the market without any restriction on the sugar content of foods bearing this claim. and according to the provisions of the legislation, food business operators may continue to use this claim until a final decision by the regulators is adopted. that is why it is important that the commission proposal to restrict its use should be supported. the commission considers that the claim should be authorised, subject indeed to strict conditions of use in line with authoritative scientific advice and recommendations of national authorities on dietary intake. the proposed conditions of use for the claim in question have been extensively discussed with member states and have been agreed almost unanimously. allowing the claim for products containing added sugars would have a promotional effect for such products and would thus run contrary to current advice on nutrition strategies. let me underline that the objective of the tabled resolution is unclear, given the two distinct and polarised opinions it comprises. on the one hand a number of meps supported their resolution in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the grounds that the commission exceeded its delegated powers by setting restrictive conditions of use, maintaining that no restrictions for the use of the claim on carbohydrates should be set, which would allow the claim to be used for products containing all carbohydrates, including added sugars. on the other hand, another group of meps supported the resolution on the grounds that the claim is misleading and ambiguous for consumers because it promotes sugar consumption and therefore should not be authorised. this group would therefore like to see the claim prohibited for all foods. so should the resolution be approved by parliament? if it is, then the regulation allowing the claim under the strict conditions proposed by the commission would not be adopted and the claim would remain on the market without any restriction on the sugar content of foods bearing this claim. for these reasons my colleague mr borg and the commission would urge the honourable members not to support this resolution which, if adopted, would allow the health claim in question to continue to be used.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, pursuant to rule 88 (2) and (3) and (4) (c) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty) the vote will take place on wednesday 9 october 2013 at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (b7-0438/2013) by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amendment of the annexes to regulations (ec) no 853/2004, (ec) no 854/2004 and (ec) no 2074/2005 (d023049/06 - 2013/2720 ((rps)) concerning food and products of animal origin. the rapporteur did not deliver an opinion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have already seen, when we were drawing up the hygiene package, that the present system of inspection of meat at the slaughterhouse does not meet the conditions. so we can't detect all the infections and transmissions anymore, because this simple cutting of lymph nodes and so on doesn't capture that. the commission has now put forward a proposal to improve this situation, and i think that the proposal is already moving in the right direction. it therefore provides that what regulation no 1244/2007 already says prior information from the stock is possible. this preliminary information is then passed on to the veterinarian working at the slaughterhouse, who then decides how the examination is to be carried out. i think that was the flaw in the commission proposal: that the term 'official veterinarian' was no longer in it. the competent authority must remain responsible. the commission has promised to correct this error, to take it up, so i see no reason at all to vote against the commission's proposal, because it has now created the preconditions i criticised for not existing. the commission proposal does not only include this one point, but it also says that, for example, salmonella infections will be more closely monitored in slaughterhouses by weekly sampling to check the status. this is the crucial point, and i say that the right approach has been taken. we don't have a solution for campylobacter yet. that would be the next step that would have to be. we're gonna have to figure out a way to deal with this. but the investigation is still going on. and because of that, i think it is justified to let the proposal pass, but always with the commission's promise... (the president shall take the floor.)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, as mr borg is unfortunately still unable to be here, on his behalf i would say that the commission is fully aware of the concerns that have been raised in relation to the commission’s draft regulation to amend the rules for pigmeat inspections. therefore we welcome the opportunity to reassure – and hopefully convince – honourable members that the commission’s text is sound, necessary and fit for purpose. let me first, on behalf of commissioner borg, address one of the things that ms mcavan mentioned in her speech. i apologise to this house for the delay in submitting the text for your scrutiny following the endorsement of the member states in the standing committee for the food chain and animal health last may. this was simply due to administrative procedures which had to be followed. it was certainly not the intention of the commission to make the work of the parliament difficult in any way. meat inspection is a key tool towards ensuring food safety, animal health and animal welfare. that is why it must be effective and focused on the relevant risks. the commission is fully aware of the limits of its power to act. the essential elements of meat inspection can and should only be considered and discussed in the framework of the ordinary legislative procedure by the parliament and by the council. in the draft regulation the commission intended to propose – and has in fact proposed – only technical amendments which do not amend or call into question the essential elements of meat inspection. the role of the competent authorities is not diminished but reinforced. let me also stress what is unquestionably the most important aspect. there will be no reduction in the level of health protection. this regulation will continue to ensure that all meat which reaches the consumer is of course fit for consumption. contrary to some criticisms made about introducing measures such as visual inspection, we are increasing food safety standards and avoiding contamination of the meat by systematic palpation and incision, therefore reducing the risk to the consumer. the draft regulation contains all the necessary elements to enable the official veterinarian to decide, when necessary, when a more intense and targeted inspection must be applied. such measures can be introduced without compromising the effectiveness of meat inspection in relation to animal health and animal welfare. we can say this with certainty, thanks to the risk assessment carried out by efsa and its clear advice on this matter. members will certainly be aware that, in addition to following efsa’s recommendations, the commission is also obliged to take account of other aspects, such as technical and economic feasibility and other legitimate factors. certain aspects of the efsa advice were not taken into account for this draft regulation. why? because the current rules already contain measures which can address them. so the commission very much hopes that we have been able to address your concerns. however, in order to give you additional reassurance, i can announce that the commission is willing to put forward a new amendment which will stress the role of the official veterinarian and further clarify the criteria to be applied during visual inspection. this will therefore address some of the concerns that we have heard expressed here today during this debate. hopefully it will also ensure that the authority of the official vet is not questioned and will clearly define under which circumstances the official veterinarian may decide that a more detailed inspection is required.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, pursuant to rule 88 (2) and (3) and (4) (c) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 october 2013 at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation of mr gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out for two years the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania (15777/2012 c7-0419/2012 2012/0258 ((nle)) (a7-0184/2013).
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a deal that really deserves our agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the country is not worsened. mauritania is very poor, but has rich fish resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is absolutely right and in line with what we want to do. we want to negotiate on equal terms. this is the first time that this has happened to the mauritanian people, and it can have a stabilising effect on the sahel region, where there are difficult situations of lack of democracy. it can also be good for further agreements with morocco and senegal. and it is true that the negotiations also take account of many european wishes for the fishing fleet. it's really absolutely balanced now. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of the agreement, because it is a good sign that we take developing countries seriously and that we want to help them get back on their feet as partners!
the commission has already done so. the agreement with mauritania is the most important fisheries agreement the european union has concluded with a third country. for 70 million euros a year, european fishermen can catch more than 300 000 tonnes of fish. fisheries agreements are often criticised by the public. it is said that the european union is taking resources away from developing countries on unfair terms. there's no fish left for the local small fishermen. the european union often fails to take account of the environment, it added. this is also being discussed in the debate on the disasters off lampedusa. some people are criticizing the agreement as a waste of taxpayers' money, as a subsidy for industrial fishing. we as a parliament recognize that this criticism has been justified in the past. the lisbon treaty finally allows the european parliament to take part in the decisionmaking process on fisheries agreements. we have taken this responsibility seriously and have set clear conditions for approval before the negotiations began: no overfishing of stocks, priority for small-scale local fishermen, equal conditions for all local fleets. we now have an agreement on the table which takes account of all our demands. environmentalists and development workers agree: this is a good deal! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the case here. the strict rules also apply to the chinese and russians, who do not care much about sustainability in fishing. it thus helps mauritania to make sustainable use of its fish stocks. it also contributes to environmental protection and food security in west africa. the money is well invested, and i'm asking for your approval.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is quite impossible to discuss the legal problems connected with this commission proposal for a minute. i would therefore simply refer to my report, which contains all the important points. i would like to make one very basic comment in the short time i have: article 168 (5) of the treaty expressly prohibits harmonisation in the field of health. what we're doing here is a legal high-wire. parliament has already been defeated before the court of justice in connection with a tobacco directive. the legal committee's efforts are directed towards ensuring that this commission proposal, which is in principle correct, is legally binding. the further you go from our position, the greater the likelihood of another defeat in the court of justice. we are discussing this from the point of view of health protection. that's political. but the legal basis on which this proposal is being made is the internal market. the single market has been a relatively minor issue in the political debate. i would like to draw attention to this risk.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, a very warm thank you to linda mcavan. you did a good job. i do not think that two or three amendments are very good, but otherwise we are already on the same page. i am very happy to see you here today, commissioner, in good health and spirits. that is not the case with your predecessor, who fell into the hands of the lobbyists and was sent into a strange retirement by commission president barroso in a somewhat unkind manner. i am glad you are here and i am glad you have not changed the report, because it is a good basis, even if it goes a little too far in some places. we have 700 000 deaths a year in europe. and when i explain that every now and then, i sometimes have to listen to myself being a little sensitive. but are 700,000 dead nothing? that's 700,000 dead, and grief, and misery, and pain, and tears! and the lobbyists and those who defend economic policy here have really only thin arguments against this. what do you want to argue against 700,000 dead? what i heard, dear lobbyists, was so thin and thin, that it just means: no, we don't want that. we want to discourage young people from smoking. the 40-year-old man who wants to smoke, he should smoke in the name of god. we're not trying to stop that. but we want to keep them from falling for such tricks. if this is legally difficult, i'm glad klaus-heiner lehne can help us to ensure that such a decoy does not seduce our children and young people. we have to go there. i hope we can find the strength to do that together. because it's our dead, the 700,000, that we want to keep an eye on. but what else would i like to see in this directive? 800 different substances are mixed into cigarettes. each one contains 100. if you take these 100 substances that are burned in tobacco and paper at 800 degrees below your nose, then there is a never-ending mess of exhaust fumes. that is precisely what we have to check, and that is why we have to put cigarettes on the test in the future. we're on the right track. if we keep our ears open, we will be doing something good for the generation that comes after us!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking commissioner tonio borg. he took over as commissioner for health at a turbulent time and under great pressure he has come forward very quickly - faster than promised - with this proposal. for this he is to be thanked and acknowledged. i also thank linda mcavan and karlheinz florenz and the many others who have worked on this proposal in committee and made it possible for us to vote today. the epp group is in favour of the proposal. we will also vote today to give linda mcavan a mandate to negotiate with the council. we support the proposal in its essence and we are optimistic that we will get through our amendments in some important areas to take better account of smes and in particular the e-cigarette. amendment no 170, which we tabled together with alde and ecr, calls for strict regulation of e-cigarettes. this is not a normal consumer product. there are dangers here, especially for young people. but we don't want to ban e-cigarettes as a medicine from the pharmacy. i said from the beginning, i find it hard to understand that we're giving syringes to drug addicts -- methadone and heroin -- and at the same time regulating e-cigarettes so tightly that they're barely accessible. that is why we want to support this motion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but article 114 of the single market - i have just read it again - obliges us, and the commission, to strive for a high level of health protection in the rules of the single market. we are doing that today, and that is why we can defend it legally. some of you may remember, but not all of you. we approved the sweetener stevia a few months ago. it took five years to get this product approved, which has no health risks. if someone were to ask today to allow tobacco in the european union, if it were not a traditional product, we would kick him out of the farm because something so dangerous would not be allowed today. that is why we must protect young people, and that is why the commission's proposal is a good one.
i have to say, madam president, i don't understand how anyone can be so cynical as to think that we're banning flavorings in cigarettes because they suggest that nicotine is something light, sweet -- caramel, chocolate -- that should be allowed in e-cigarettes. i don't understand this at all. and just to make sure that we finally get to know from the manufacturers whether it is dangerous or not, and that this is marked, is far too little, it is cynical. the amendment tabled to this effect is detrimental to the legislation. it is detrimental to what the member states want and it has been wrongly put forward by the epp, ecr and liberal colleagues. i think it is extremely worrying that we say, as mrs yannakoudakis has done, that e-cigarettes are a means of quitting smoking, but that they are privileged and treated differently from nicotine sprays or nicotine patches. anyone who says that access to e-cigarettes has been difficult is lying, because what was agreed in the environment committee was very clear: member states can decide where they are to be sold. ladies and gentlemen, many of you are running for re-election next year. that's about seven or eight months away. how will you go out into the streets and explain to your constituents, who are supposed to vote for you, why this is necessary? do you want to tell them, "yes, we work here as the extended arm of the cigarette industry. we're important to them? you want to do that? do you really want to - we hope that some of our colleagues will not be re-elected to this parliament anyway, i hope so at least - do you really think it is right to introduce health care? those of you who are really serious about what you are elected to do and what you are in this parliament for, please vote today for strict regulation of e-cigarettes as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make it clear that smoking is harmful to health and i can only advise everyone to stop. however, there is no general prohibition. anyone who wants to smoke can, as long as it doesn't harm others. the commission's approach - supported by the committee on the environment - to spoil the pleasure of smoking for smokers by imposing certain product formats, flavours and even banning some products altogether seems to me to be an unnecessary stigmatisation of our citizens. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we cannot and must not regulate every aspect of private life. the same is true of e-cigarettes, which are a real alternative for smokers. i am firmly against classifying it as a medical product and for its free sale, and not just in pharmacies. i would like to conclude by referring to the necessary campaigns against smoking which we have been conducting for years, particularly among young people, and which have been successful. in germany, the rate of young people smoking has fallen by 12% in the last ten years, and we must continue along this path!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, smoking is bad for you. and yes, tobacco is always a highly emotional issue - especially in this house - and a playground for ideologies. is it really the case that the only real good people are those who follow the reporter and everyone else is bought by the tobacco lobby? can't you have a different opinion? it's not that simple. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the fact is, for example, that e-cigarettes offer smokers a way out. however, they are not medical devices and therefore may not be subjected to clinical trials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry is not left behind. do we want to? the pharmaceutical industry would also be in agreement, since it is very interested in this dossier, but it never lobbies. no, she's doing it undercover, hidden, through ngos. about ngos that speak out against smoking. ngos i have absolutely nothing against them. that's good. but you have to look at what's behind it. shockingly, many of these ngos are sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry. these ngos have their fingers in this parliament, they organise intergroups, they provide the secretariat to the point of writing the press releases of these intergroups. i think that's something to think about. it is not possible that such a lack of transparency exists and that is good. i think we should be a little more decent about ourselves, even on this subject. you're allowed to disagree. i'm not in favour of making people smoke, i'm in favour of strict regulations. but i also think that you should be allowed to leave the church in the village.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we have a big piece of legislation on the table today for review, and it is about health together with the internal market , and some colleagues have mentioned that the legal situation is not clear. the tobacco industry is going to court anyway. that's good tobacco industry tradition. we should not be afraid to bring this legislation into force as vigorously as possible today. everyone has only one health. and this legislation is about making it as difficult as possible for young people to enter a tobacco career, not about banning the 50- or 60-year-old from smoking and pointing fingers, but about preventing as many young people as possible from entering this harmful career, and that's what it's about - and as strictly as possible: warning labels, flavors should be banned, and the e-cigarette should be regulated sensibly and not half-heartedly. the council has taken a very reasonable position on this, i must say.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also very much in favour of raising awareness of the dangers of smoking. i am very sorry, however, that we cannot really conduct the debate on this directive that we have here in a factual manner. do we really believe that the most detailed packaging regulations add value to the health of our citizens? do we really think that we are saving lives by banning the sale of tobacco for self-winding products in cardboard boxes? do we really think we are saving lives by making the most detailed regulations on cigarette packaging and requiring that a pack has to have a folding lid? i think that the proportionality of many of the proposals is simply not being respected. i also do not think it is really justified to say that health protection is greater when the warning occupies 75% of the packaging area instead of 50%. this is an irrational discussion. i would very much like to see us discussing this on the basis of arguments and not so much as simply declaring those who have critical remarks to be outsiders, lobby-driven beings. that's exactly what happened in the debate. i believe that we are going to end up with a directive that reinforces the anti-eu reflex in the population rather than actually contributing to health protection.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur group for the very difficult work that has been done on this dossier over the past few months. i am a little disappointed that the rapporteurs have not been able to put on the table compromises which are obviously supported by the largest possible majority in this house. we are heading for a vote tomorrow which will be very controversial and possibly also marked by random results, where i believe that in this very complex and very technical dossier it may produce the opposite of what we actually want to do here, namely a regulation. i believe we need good environmental impact assessment legislation. we have one too, but it is obviously implemented very differently in a number of member states. i think it might be more appropriate to look at how the existing legislation is being implemented. there are member states where it works very well, and there are member states where it does not work. i do not think it is the right way for colleagues and sometimes governments from countries where the existing legislation is not being implemented very well to use brussels here as a kind of substitute legislation to write things into eu directives that you would actually have to solve at home. this is not a very appropriate environmental impact assessment in this particular case, because it is of course also annoying the countries which have done a good job in recent years when it came to the question of how to launch large projects - whether factories, mining, infrastructure projects. the commission has analysed - or at least i have explained this to myself - that many projects in europe take far too long. and somehow an attempt has been made to allow projects to be approved more quickly through the revision of the environmental impact assessment. i believe that the commission's proposal does the opposite. because inflating the environmental impact assessment will not make projects go faster. i do not think that the environmental impact assessment, to be quite specific, should contain substantive legal requirements - i.e. compensation measures, pollution prevention measures, all the things that come with the approval of a project and then the technical legislation applies, i.e. many of the directives we have drawn up here, such as the industrial emissions directive, which contains limit values and prescribes the best available techniques. all this is mixed up with the environmental impact assessment, so that there is a great danger that we are creating new bureaucratic obstacles here, which will end up not only with environmentally friendly projects, but may make it unnecessarily difficult to create projects. we should take that into account when we go to the vote tomorrow. i do not think that there is any time pressure to make a good law here, but that we should take a lot of time to come to a reasonable and balanced result.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the environmental impact should normally be assessed, but this is not the case everywhere in the eu. we have in fact completely different procedures and completely different standards. the revision of the directive must therefore bring about a certain degree of harmonisation of these procedures. i believe that this is beneficial to all and also creates a common ground for the acceptance of projects. i see that many complaints are received about improperly conducted environmental impact assessments. the european court of justice has also given associations the opportunity to challenge this. i therefore regret that the commission's fitness check has now omitted this very directive on access to justice and that it should be abandoned. i think it would be in the interests of the epp if access to justice were to remain. i also welcome the fact that this directive extends the eia to new areas: biodiversity, climate change and also mountain law. there's been coal mining in my region for 250 years. the mining right had an exclusive status and was not checked. fracking, shale oil, shale gas, all of that needs to be looked at. i would be in favour of negotiating very quickly with the council so that we can get this directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. environmental impact assessment is a tool that affects all areas of life and business. we have all had our share of experiences over the years, and unfortunately they have not always been positive. environmental impact assessments must not be used to prevent economic activities. it is about doing the right thing in the right places, avoiding negative impacts on people and the environment, promoting sustainable economies and thus safeguarding jobs. the audits must be carried out within a reasonable bureaucratic and timeframe and must in no case be applied retroactively. retroactive applications are beyond reason. i warn you against a tightly defined examination grid. one size fits all doesn't work here. the aim of environmental impact assessments is to be consistent with both societal and environmental needs, in accordance with common sense and the local situation. it is therefore right that noise pollution should be included. the results of the tests already available should be developed and adjusted in the context of a new project. once again, tomorrow we will have to make a crucial decision on whether we will bring ecology and economics together in a sensible and responsible way or whether we will create a bureaucratic monster that will undoubtedly harm both our environment and our employers and workers.
the commission has already done so. the present proposal is very important. but it is also asking us to do the same after the sunday speeches. we are asking for more growth, we are asking for more industry to be installed, and then we make a proposal like the one we have here today, which does the exact opposite of what we talk about on sundays. mr barroso tells us here that he would make a great contribution to less bureaucracy and fewer regulations, and at the same time we are making a proposal that will further tighten up the environmental impact assessment. this is a measure of prevention and of handicap, not of incentive! it's the opposite of what they tell you here on sundays! that is why i am in favour of voting the key bodies out of this directive today. this is nonsense, it's bureaucracy, it creates legal uncertainty! why do we decide to take retrospective action? why do we choose terms that no one knows exactly what they are, with biodiversity, and that will mean a variety of interpretations later? this will not help the environment, but it will put jobs at risk! it is not that it makes no sense, but that it is a great nonsense that is being put to the vote. it's also contradictory what we're doing here. sometimes we have to decide what we want. if we say yes to the economic ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. i share the commission's view that the 25 year old directive needs to be adapted to the new circumstances and environmental factors. it is our task to ensure that this directive protects and changes the health of people in the catchment area of airports and congested transport infrastructure. given that noise pollution is one of the most important issues in rhineland-palatinate, our aim must therefore be to ensure that the environmental impact assessment (eia) includes key environmental aspects to protect citizens. unfortunately, our amendment, which was intended to take account of the health threat posed by the noise factor, did not receive the necessary majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate on the tobacco directive has been very controversial and emotional in recent weeks. many of the marginal discussions about e-cigarettes or slim cigarettes have often put the real aim of the directive in the background. the main aim is to discourage young people from smoking and to make them aware of the dangers of smoking. we must not forget that especially among young people, anything that is forbidden is sometimes especially interesting. many young people are attracted to deterrence. warning images on cigarette packages discriminate against people who are actually struggling with the diseases depicted. the single packaging, which we voted against, does not necessarily stop people from smoking either. it is not a question of the european parliament being involved in the negotiations. this would not only affect people's health but also millions of jobs and tax revenues. education, training and information must be properly set up and young people kept away from smoking. we were able to improve the commission's proposal today, and that is why i was able to agree to it in the end.
in writing. the european parliament has today set important new standards for the tobacco products directive, in order to discourage young people in particular from smoking and its harmful side effects on health. in future, the consumer will be warned about the many negative consequences of smoking by means of graphic warnings. i think that the point is not to convert long-time smokers but to make the consumption of tobacco products unattractive to young people. in this sense, the directive has found an acceptable and bureaucratically manageable compromise between the public responsibility for health information and the personal responsibility of consumers. cigarettes and other tobacco products can therefore continue to be consumed legally. each adult can decide for himself whether and to what extent he smokes, for he alone is responsible for his health. as a self-confessed non-smoker, i would nevertheless recommend that you give up smoking as soon as possible or if possible, quit.
in writing. - i voted for a healthier europe when the tobacco directive was renewed. larger warnings, covering 65 per cent of the packaging, clearly inform consumers of the product's hazards. i have advocated a ban on slim cigarettes and cigarettes with flavour-changing additives such as menthol, because these products make it easier to start smoking and subsequently to become addicted to nicotine. the e-cigarette is a new product that promises to make quitting easier and should be promoted. that is why i voted against a pharmaceutical authorization procedure.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the directive today. this is by no means to say that i do not think that smoking is harmful. that's not a question. i am absolutely against the temptation to smoke, especially among young people, through trivial, fancy packaging or tasty ingredients. i am, however, opposed in principle to the idea of a massive intervention in the market and the rights of businesses and consumers under the guise of harmonizing advertising rules. the eu commission proposal was completely overblown. for example, i do not think that we should soon require companies to print warnings on three quarters of cigarette packages. there were also a lot of new pressures on small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already done so. we have not been able to find a majority on other items. i do not want to be pushed into a corner by those who want to regulate health care with a massive regulatory fury and simply ignore all other legitimate interests of the economy and the consumer. i wanted to make this clear once again today by my voting behaviour.
i have to say, madam president, mr. chairman, thank you for coming. i would like to welcome you very warmly. we're all having a déjà vu here with each other. not only the procedure here, but also the statement which i think you have read very courageously. it is the council's legal service statement, which we are well aware of. i would like to counter our own explanation. we see a lot of things differently in it. i would be happy to explain this to you in detail. we're not getting anywhere with this case. you, as the council, must recognize that transparency and accountability apply to you as well. everything else is a setback for europe. you have presented an absolutist understanding of politics today. this is not acceptable to us. a few months before the european elections, you are giving unnecessary impetus to populist forces, especially those who claim that eu funds are not adequately controlled. that's definitely not right. i would also be very happy to do the work that is expected of me here, and which is also stated in the treaty as the task of this parliament, as one of the few tasks we have. if we were allowed to do that, it would be very nice. the citizens have no understanding of this, and for the group from kühlsheim, a town in my constituency, its municipal council, this is quite new territory. we have to be careful not to let the council of ministers get involved in the affairs of the community. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that there must be consequences. we must have the courage to block budgetary decisions, to block the council budget. we must abandon the gentlemen's agreement, which requires the council and parliament to draw up their budgets without interference from each other, otherwise we shall not get anywhere. it must be clear that in future money can only be spent against parliamentary control, and that is complete parliamentary control. it's also a way of building our credibility. i would simply like to point out this reciprocity you are pointing out. it's not mutual. i will not allow a freely elected parliament to be controlled by the government or by officials. that is not the case in any of the member states.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. i can seamlessly follow up where my christian democrat colleague left off. first of all, thank you for being here. it's actually a new quality that we can discuss with you and not about you. there have been exoneration debates here before, we were among ourselves. and believe me, we know each other's points of view. it was a very one-sided affair. you said the council regrets the situation. we are pleased to note that. we feel sorry for her, too. i'm asking you to do something to change that. until now, it's always been a guerrilla action. the council has not been able to reach agreement on the text of the treaty of rome, and the council has not been able to reach agreement on the text of the treaty of rome. the swedish presidency of the council - if i remember correctly - simply, in keeping with scandinavian traditions of transparency, put on line certain documents requested by parliament. the lithuanian presidency of the council is a little bit late. it will include the timing of when we start discussing the discharge for 2013. you are cordially invited to follow the swedish example.
i have to say, madam president, the council presidency is witnessing the united front of parliament. the expectations have been expressed in unison, as we ask the council to do in the report on transparency. you can read the points that need clarification in paragraph 8 et seq. of mrs češková's report, and i do not need to read them out here. would it not be most practical if you, as the presidency of the council, asked the secretary-general of the council to appear before the committee on budgetary control? i know that his predecessor, mr de boissieu, appeared once before the coordinators and asked the questions put by the members. i think that would also suit the current secretary-general of the council very well. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. so, please, the question is, will you issue that summons?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. in view of the globalised economy, it is of course sensible to negotiate and possibly conclude an investment agreement with china, our major trading partner, because we need to be sure of both european investment in china and chinese investment in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have good examples of chinese investors, for example, the cooperation between chinese investors and volvo is working very well and also takes into account the interests of the workers. but there are worse examples. that is why it is a central demand of us social democrats that the investment agreement must guarantee respect for fundamental workers' rights, both as regards the investors and as regards the state regulations concerning these investors: we do not want competition based on wage and social dumping. investment policy must be linked to respect for fundamental workers' rights. but we also believe that there cannot be any extrajudicial arrangements which unilaterally give large investors opportunities when it comes to the design of investment security. i also do not want a large chinese sovereign wealth fund to ever sue the european union in the united states in an investor-state dispute settlement because we have established a certain environmental legislation. so, if we're going to set up mechanisms, please do it state-to-state. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, we must also ensure that there are safety nets for workers within the european union, so that there is no wage dumping by foreign investors or european companies. unfortunately, i have to say that companies in my own country also employ colleagues from romania and bulgaria under unacceptable conditions. we have to change that!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we greens believe that an investment agreement with china is a real opportunity if it is tackled properly, but only if it is. and to do that, we have five core demands: we are opposed to the admission of investor-state lawsuits. to make it clear again what this is all about: foreign investors can bypass national courts and bring cases before international arbitration tribunals, which are devoid of any transparency or democratic control. the definitions of investor infringement are so vague that virtually all decisions can be challenged. this is the case for environmental regulation, social legislation, media regulation, etc. either the states have to pay a large compensation or they withdraw the regulation. so investor-state lawsuits are undermining the democratic decision-making of states. why do we want to allow foreign - in this case chinese - investors to challenge legitimate, democratic decisions in the eu, which are in the public interest? the german government is being sued by an international arbitration court for its decision to abandon nuclear energy, which is supported by a large majority in parliament and in society. there are countless examples of this. this practice must not be allowed to continue, nor must it be included in the agreement with china. i therefore ask the house to support our amendment. the protection of investors must not be put above the general good. we believe that an agreement between the eu and china offers an opportunity in terms of human rights and social standards. the bilateral investment agreements between china and the member states do not contain a sustainability chapter for the most part. if we can get binding - but there must also be binding - rules in there, then that can really greatly promote dialogue with china in these areas. we also want a clause stating that existing international conventions on human rights and workers' rights and the environment take precedence over the protection rights of investors. we are not against trade, but we also think that we need to create a clear hierarchy of values. and investor protection is not a priority. we also believe that strategic sectors committed to the common good can be excluded from market access. and finally, we want a robust human rights impact assessment before the negotiations are opened. it must be clear what the consequences are for human rights. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr. leichtfried. i believe that democratic decision-making processes in developing countries must also apply and that investors cannot oppose decisions made in developing countries. of course, investors also need protection, for example, a functioning national jurisdiction. if that fails, state-to-state can still be the last resort, the last option. but i don't think we should treat decisions that are made in developing countries as if they were made in developing countries.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the present resolution on the commission's mandate to negotiate an eu-china investment agreement, which would replace all existing bilateral agreements between the eu, the eu member states and china, clearly expresses the expectations and concerns of parliament on this issue. we see the positive impact that the agreement could have on both partners. as a co-author of the resolution, i attached particular importance to the need not only to clearly define the nature of investment protection but also to define the obligations of investors in the agreement. we call in particular for respect for trade union and workers' rights, transparency and environmental protection as laid down in the legislation of both parties. the commission has also proposed that the cultural sector be excluded and that the political space for action of governments be guaranteed. i would like to warn against the idea of a new agreement between the eu and china stipulating that investors should be able to bring direct actions against governments before an arbitration tribunal. my group strongly rejects this and stresses the competence of ordinary courts and state-to-state litigation and mediation. the chinese side also favors our approach. the recent lawsuits by corporations in canada should be a wake-up call to us. our citizens don't want their court systems to be circumvented. the commission alone is clearly acting in the interests of the corporations and law firms. the vote on this subject in the commerce committee was very close. tomorrow the plenary will have to decide by roll call.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking today about a proposed investment protection agreement which can significantly improve the situation for european companies and therefore for european investors in china. that is also urgently needed. this aspect is completely lacking in all the contributions i have heard so far. we still have the situation today where several member states of the european union do not have a bilateral investment protection agreement. and even where such agreements exist in part, we still have the situation that the chinese are not at all adhering to the high standards that apply to us in europe, but that our local companies are struggling with the fact that they are being treated in part arbitrarily by the administration, that intellectual property is being taken arbitrarily and in our view also illegally. we're seeing that investment is not paying off because suddenly some kind of permits are being issued too late, and we're still seeing a very uncertain environment for our companies in china. that is why i am very grateful to the european commission for taking this initiative, that we want to create a common european investment protection agreement. this will help us to make it easier for european companies to do business in china. this will help to safeguard jobs in europe too, if we can further optimise global value chains. and it will also help to ensure that employees in european companies who then work in china - that is, chinese workers in china - will certainly be treated much better, as a general rule, if the owner comes from europe, than if the owner is doubtful, a chinese sovereign wealth fund or the chinese state itself. i would therefore be pleased if we could work together, particularly in the coming weeks, to make the chances of such an agreement a reality. but i also have a subject which is close to my heart and we should all be aware of this: some of the existing agreements have a very high level of protection. we would all - in german - shoot ourselves in the knee if we were to call into question this partly high level of protection with a european agreement.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr leichtfried, i listened very carefully to what you said. china is now a global player in world economic relations. and i think the eu is really called upon to build a partnership with china. in the light of the current financial and economic crisis in the european union, which is still ongoing, i would like to ask you again: what do you see as the added value of such an investment agreement with the prc?
member of the commission. − mr president, a number of questions have been raised by several members such as, for example, what to do about human rights, about sustainable development matters and others, and also the possible lowering of social standards and workers’ rights. i think i have been quite clear in my introduction that we will pursue those goals. they are also the goals of our general external action principles. this is of course a negotiation, so to expect that we would have full satisfaction is probably a little bit too much; but i, too, believe it is important that we have those considerations in the agreement. that would be a big step forward compared to the investment agreements that we presently have at member state level; they hardly address those matters. the only possibility of addressing those matters is precisely if you were able to do it with all of the member states together, but that of course means that all of the member states would need to have the same approach themselves and support us in the negotiations. a specific question raised by ms keller was on investor-state dispute settlement (isds) and that it would not be possible to attack, for example, environmental and other legislation. what is important, ms keller, is that isds relates not to the legislation, for example environmental legislation itself, but to the way the legislation is applied, so that there can be no discrimination between a european or a chinese company. that is what it is about, but the legislation itself is not eligible for isds. lord dartmouth has disappeared, but i would nevertheless like to tell him that it is not by accident that a couple of individual countries have a free trade agreement with china. for example, the reason the chinese have made a free trade agreement with switzerland is because they see it as an indirect inroad into the internal market, and that is why they have been doing it. it is not proof or even an indication that you could also make as good a free trade agreement with china as a sovereign individual member state as the 28 member states together. presently there are 26 member states that already have such an agreement. by the way, the 26 agreements are not of the same generation. we have a limited number of member states that are very well protected in their investment agreement and there are many others that have very weak protection which is, in fact, discrimination inside the internal market. our aim should be that all member states are protected in exactly the same way which is presently not the case. to end with, mr zalba, as regards the wine case you know that this has been discussed along with the photo-voltaic case. the agreement with the chinese is that no measures will be taken until the final moments when definitive measures can be taken which, if my recollection is right, will be next year in june; in the meantime there will be consultations. i will insist with my chinese counterpart when it comes to the high-level economic dialogue – the consultations will be taking place in october – but up till now there has not been that much activity on that front. in concluding, i would like to thank all members for their valuable remarks and reaffirm that the commission welcomes the draft resolution of the european parliament and the support expressed for our chosen approach in these important negotiations. in particular, we welcome the support for an agreement that combines investment protection with liberalisation, that establishes a balance between the right to regulate and the right of the investors, that provides legal certainty and clarity to investors on both sides, and that takes into account important issues like environmental protection, labour standards and human rights. and as always during the negotiation the commission will keep parliament regularly up to date with respect to further developments.
the debate was closed by two motions for resolutions tabled under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 9 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on eu-taiwan trade relations by mr vital moreira and mr franck proust, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000093/2013 - 2013/2675 ((rsp - b7-0509/2013).
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the bilateral trade volume between the european union and taiwan was over eur 40 billion in 2011 and trade relations continued to intensify last year. the situation we have at the moment is that we as the european union have been very active in the region around taiwan in terms of trade relations. we have had the free trade agreement between the european union and south korea in force for some months. we have started negotiations on a free trade agreement between the european union and japan. we have just discussed trade relations with china and we want to further intensify trade relations with mainland china. we are in a situation where we are negotiating with many other countries in the asian region as a whole, but on the other hand we have not yet found ways of intensifying trade relations with taiwan. it is certainly not appropriate to talk about taiwan in the first instance, in terms of a free trade agreement or something else. but i think we should think together about how we can continue to maintain our good trade relations with taiwan, how we can continue to expand them and how we can prevent taiwan from being in this environment that i have just described - namely in the environment that we are intensifying trade relations with many countries in taiwan's immediate vicinity, that these countries are partly active in exactly the same industrial sectors and that our european companies are also extremely active, extremely involved in taiwan, that the european union and european investors are among the largest investors in taiwan ... in this context we should think about how we can intensify trade relations with taiwan. that is why we are asking the european commission today: how does the commission assess trade relations with taiwan? what possibilities does the commission see for further improving trade relations with taiwan in the light of the situation i have just described and also in view of the forthcoming negotiations with china? and what can we do together to ensure that taiwan does not fall into this triangle or this polygon of different trade relations? i am therefore very grateful that we have the opportunity to speak today, immediately after the debate on trade relations with china. i am very grateful to the colleagues from all the political groups for the fact that we have been able to agree on this joint sequence of the two debates. i am very grateful to all my colleagues for the opportunity we have had today to discuss openly how we can further strengthen this relationship.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we in the green group do not share the urgency with which the demand for an investment or trade agreement with taiwan is being made. finally, european companies are already investing in taiwan. in fact, investment from the european union is the largest in taiwan. both economies are already well integrated. so we do not see any urgent need for action. we have repeatedly said as a parliament that the commission and the directorate-general for trade should give priority to trade negotiations, also because of the limited human resources. we're already negotiating with the us, canada, india, to name a few. we are also putting ourselves in a difficult situation as a parliament if we are not able to keep up with the analysis and monitoring of the negotiations, especially since we have the right to monitor such agreements after they have been concluded. we, the greens, of course, also believe that it is good not to forget the relations with taiwan, especially when we are at the same time negotiating an investment agreement with china. the eu does well to support and highlight the positive developments in taiwan in terms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. it is important for us to support bilateral relations in these areas and not just look at them from an economic perspective. if we are to have a more intensive dialogue, it should not be limited to trade issues.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr tannock, what do you think of the european union's one-china policy? the reasoning behind the desire for an investment agreement with taiwan, the fear of economic annexation by china, i think is double-talking. the taiwanese economy and its entrepreneurs have been the biggest beneficiaries of the chinese economic boom since the early 1990s. the commission has also received comments from taiwanese exporting producers. and foxconn is a taiwanese company, and they have bad working conditions. what do you think of that?
member of the commission. − madam president, i will be very brief because i have already developed our policy with respect to the question raised by the oral question in my introduction. what i would like to stress is that we take our decisions in full independence on the basis of what is best for the union and for european citizens. to put it very clearly, we would not refrain from having negotiations with taiwan because the people’s republic of china is against this. that is our sovereign right but, on the other hand, there are other criteria that also come into play, namely the relative potential of negotiations with taiwan, compared to other possible policy choices. i have to say that, at this moment in time, our resources are really exhausted and that is putting it very mildly. but we certainly do not reject the idea of having negotiations on an investment agreement, also covering market access, and we will consider that in due course. i have also understood very well the message from this parliament, because there was almost unanimous support for closer commercial relations with taiwan. we will certainly bear this in mind when we reconsider the question in the commission.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the fact is that what is happening at the moment on the lithuanian-russian border cannot be tolerated by us in any way. lithuania has about 650 transport companies, which own a total of 13 000 trucks. these trucks are transporting a whole lot of goods to russia. and russia has recently begun to organise extra checks specifically for lithuanian trucks, practically in retaliation. it is also true that these extra checks have already been made for private cars completely without any reason. these extra checks - which are really almost harassment for the lithuanian trucks - go so far that even extra escorts have been requested to accompany these trucks later when they are on the road in russia. this is something we cannot tolerate in any case, because lithuania is an eu country, and in this case it even affects all transport within the european union and into neighbouring countries. you have to think about this: russia has been a member of the wto since 2012, and has accepted the conditions accordingly, and this is in no way compatible with it. it is true that lithuanian entrepreneurs are naturally suffering a lot of damage as a result. the estimated cost of this damage is about eur 2 million per day. so this is something we cannot just leave to chance. clearly, russia is trying to punish by sanctions former soviet states that are now approaching or are already in the process of joining the eu. we have seen this already in other countries which are now seeking membership, such as ukraine, georgia and moldova. similar considerations have been made in this respect. i can now read what our group chairman, guy verhofstadt, said on this: 'by discriminating against lithuanian hauliers the customs of the russian federation discriminate against the european union. i hope the commission takes immediate action to change the situation. that is exactly what i want the commission to do. i ask: have you done anything, or will you do anything, to remedy this situation? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
author, answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i can answer very briefly: of course i agree with that. we must take a broad-based approach to this!
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission has been informed by the lithuanian authorities that russia’s customs restrictions on lithuanian goods have been applied at customs clearance points by the russian authorities since 12 september of this year. any such broad trade-disruptive measures not tightly linked to objective specific risks are inappropriate and discriminatory and their wto consistency would appear questionable. on 18 september, together with my colleague algirdas šemeta, i addressed a letter to russia’s economic development minister, alexei ulyukayev, and the head of the federal customs service, andrey belyaninov. we emphasised that the measures that have now been in place since 12 september are, and i quote, ‘cause of very considerable concern from an economic and from a legal point of view’. we asked for clarification on the reasoning for the measures and repeated the eu’s strong appeal to the russian authorities to immediately lift these restrictions. to date the russian authorities have not provided clarification as to the reasoning for these tightened customs controls. we are now checking the compatibility of these measures with the world trade organisation rules and, in particular, article 11 of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). for this some further information about actual customs clearance controls would need to be provided by the lithuanian authorities. it would also be important to receive any information available to the lithuanian authorities on the alleged justification for the measures. in the meantime the eu will put this issue on the agenda of the next wto council for trade in goods which takes place on 18 october in geneva, as a potential violation of the wto rules. it will also be discussed before that at technical level between the commission and our russian counterparts. another important element to tackle this measure would be to look at its political aspects and react consequently. with respect to the more recent restrictions on lithuanian dairy products the commission has not been informed of the nature of the sanitary concerns expressed by the russian authorities regarding dairy products from lithuania. the commission has confidence in the safety of lithuanian dairy products. the eu food safety system ensures a high level of consumer protection. this food safety framework notably includes regular audits in member states by commission inspection services as well as a rapid alert system in order to ensure appropriate action in the event that a specific product is found to be unsafe. there are a number of differences between russian and eu sanitary standards. in certain cases the eu believes that certain russian standards are unnecessarily strict and go beyond what is scientifically necessary to safeguard the protection of consumers. this is why the commission calls on the russian authorities for proportionate action following any possible detection or deviation from russian sanitary standards by dairy products from lithuania. in accordance with russia’s wto commitments any restriction based on sanitary grounds must be justified by the risk at stake and the measure taken must be proportionate to the level of risk identified. russian sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions towards the eu and our member states have been on the rise for more than one year now. the commission will continue to defend eu exports and to insist that russia lives up to the commitments it took when acceding to the world trade organisation. based on further information and developments, i will not hesitate to recommend appropriate action to the college on the basis of the relevant provisions of the wto’s general agreement on tariffs and trade.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful for your comments, but i must say quite frankly that i think the commission is making a very easy decision in the very technical answer. for we have been witnessing here for some weeks now that russia is obviously doing everything it can to torpedo our european neighbourhood policy. it is just one example that we are talking about today, that all of a sudden there is a very specific approach to truck companies from lithuania. the second example is quite recent, and it was yesterday morning that milk exports were suddenly stopped. it is good and right that you bring this to the wto. it is also time that the european commission started to consider whether it should even invite the russian ambassador to the european union to speak to him about this. i would also be delighted if we could make it very clear to the russians, through our foreign service and our other representatives who are directly in moscow, that trade relations between the european union and russia are being massively jeopardised here and that what we are experiencing here is extremely harmful to the political dimension of our cooperation as a whole. i hope that the message will be clear from the plenary chamber of the european parliament today: this is not an attack on lithuania, but an attack on the whole of europe if one of the countries of the european union is attacked by means of trade measures. i really hope that there will be broad european solidarity here. it is not possible that one of our smallest member states should have to bleed in the truest sense of the word to be able to host an important summit that will soon send out clear political signals. it is not possible that a partner in eastern europe, namely russia, is taking a european union country hostage here. i therefore really hope that the european commission will take clear action. i would also like to see clear statements from our foreign affairs representatives. and i would be very grateful if we could make it clear together today that on the one hand the european parliament stands with russia and stands for good relations with russia, but that on the other hand we say quite clearly: whoever attacks one country is dealing with the whole of europe, and we stand in solidarity with our friends in lithuania. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
the author, question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i can also make this very briefly: you mentioned the dairy products, which is correct. and the fact is that for russia, it doesn't really matter, they can get their milk from elsewhere. but as far as i am aware, a large part of lithuania's milk exports go to russia. do you not think that this may be particularly harmful for a member state of the eu?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that what you are referring to is the most terrible thing. firstly, the lithuanian transport industry is being hit very badly, but secondly - if the figures i know are correct - about 90% of lithuanian milk exports go to russia. you can choose your own area. and since i do not know of any other european country that has reported any problems with lithuanian dairy products to rapex, i assume that they are fine. i would like to make it very clear to our partners in russia that we cannot accept this approach.
member of the commission. − madam president, there is little doubt in my mind that these measures are politically motivated and most probably linked to russian concerns with regard to the eu eastern partnership policy. listening to the debate, i think there is also very little doubt in the minds of the members of this parliament. but the fact that it is politically motivated does not mean that we should not prepare ourselves properly before going to the wto. we are currently analysing the wto compatibility of these measures. it would be counterproductive to go to the wto without having a good analysis based on facts and statistics. on 18 october the wto council will take place – the council on trade in goods – and we will raise the matter and even before the 18th, we will have discussions at a technical level. we know exactly whom to talk to. i have a background as a lawyer and before you go to court – and the wto is a court – you prepare your file. it has to be documented. it is not by accident that when you look at all the cases we bring to the wto, we hardly lose any of them, because we prepare them properly. but we will do this swiftly. for that we are of course also counting on cooperation from lithuania. we can also react politically to such a measure, and mr caspary has mentioned the possibility of summoning the russian ambassador. i could do so in the next few days; that is not the problem. i think we should also make it very clear to the russians that, as many of you have been saying, when you take on one member state, you take on the european union. that is very clear. but i have no magic measure to resolve this matter from one day to the next. you should also understand that. i have been drafting a list of all the problems we have had with russia since 20 march 2012, when there was a ban on imports from all eu countries of livestock which were not for breeding due to an alleged violation of veterinary rules linked to the schmallenberg virus. since then we have a list of 10 measures that the russians have been taking, not only against lithuania but against several member states of the european union. so this is not something completely new. you can be sure that we will take the appropriate action, but please understand that we also need to do this on the basis of evidence that we have to collect. we have to ask the russians what they want to do with this, how they are doing it and question it. on the basis of all this material we will take the appropriate decision very soon.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the house and, in particular, mr harbour, the rapporteur for the proposal, for having made it possible to reach agreement on this text of the recreational craft directive. during the work we have focused particularly on reducing exhaust emissions from engines by introducing stricter emission limits. it also took the opportunity to align the recreational vessel directive with the so-called new legislative framework, which concerns in particular the harmonisation of the obligations of economic operators and notified bodies. overall, we can say that the main changes made improve the environmental protection and impact of the recreational craft sector in the european union as a whole. the proposed directive provides for a second phase of exhaust gas emission limits to reduce annual hydrocarbon oxide and nitrogen emissions by 20% and particulate matter by 34%. in order to ensure a balanced profile between the various possible alternatives, we have opted for a strategy which, in addition to protecting the environment, has the merit of promoting the competitiveness of the european union's pleasure craft industry. i want to emphasize how important this sector is: there are 37 000 enterprises with over 230 000 direct jobs, generating an annual turnover of eur 20 billion in 2011, and 97% of these enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. the 48 million people in europe who are engaged in one or more activities in the maritime sector and 36 million of them use motor boats or sailing boats, so we must realise how important the regulatory intervention we are carrying out is. following discussions with stakeholders and contacts with the relevant us agency, we have also aligned the proposed emission limits with those of the united states. we have proposed a transitional mechanism to help small and mediumsized enterprises adapt to the stricter emission standards. the package we are discussing today is therefore, in my view, a good example of the marriage of interests between environmental policy and industrial policy which we should seek to promote more and more in european legislation to support the competitiveness of the industrial system. as regards the categories of design for vessels, there was a broad consensus in favour of maintaining the current situation, this being because manufacturers and customers are accustomed to the existing categories and to change them would require in-depth studies on several issues: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we are not opposed to a review of the categories of design for vessels, but this is a task which requires a thorough debate with the parties concerned and in-depth studies, and this cannot be done overnight. we have therefore decided to leave this point for the next review of the recreational craft legislation. in the present proposal we have instead welcomed parliament's proposal to amend the wording of the existing categories of boat design. as regards noise emission limits, our dialogue with the parties concerned has indicated that it would not be appropriate to change them at present, as noise pollution from ships is caused by a number of different factors. however, considering that it is possible to take measures at local level in sensitive areas without having to modify the boats complying with the directive, we have made this alternative explicit in article 5. finally, looking to the future, we have decided to include exhaust gas emission limits in the work for the next update of the directive, together with noise emission limits and design categories for vessels. we cannot anticipate the outcome of the work we will undertake in the future, but we will certainly carefully assess the possibility of making further progress in environmental protection and we will certainly also take account of all the needs of growth and employment, with particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises. thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to congratulate our committee chairman, malcolm harbour, on his excellent work on the market for sports boats in the european single market. parliament has done an excellent job in this legislation, which has been carried out out out out of the public eye, and which - malcolm harbour has already mentioned this - is primarily due to the fact that we have the good proposal of the commission, this really european market for sports boats and water-powered motorcycles - because you can sail on italian or german boats everywhere in europe on lakes and inland and coastal waters, thank god - so uniform that in the end a common whole has been created, which can count on european added value from suppliers and consumers alike. secondly, however, it has also succeeded in making it clear - and i am particularly grateful for this - that the so-called impact assessments which parliament occasionally commissions actually have a practical use, if it is possible to find good scientists to carry out such impact assessments and if it is politically possible to convince the co-legislators that the way proposed is the most likely to lead to a solution. the proposal that the impact assessment has produced here is a great example of how we can use this technical work to add value to citizens in the european single market. finally, as a jurist, i see this legislation as being stronger also in legal terms. of course, the consensus reached, which we were able to adopt unanimously in the committee, provides assurance that the directive on recreational craft and watercraft is now really moving within the framework of the lisbon treaty, and thus is in line with the new legal situation in the european union. i understand that the commission has made the same statement as it did on the pyrotechnic articles directive. i hope that we will still get a large majority for this draft tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not commissioner kallas, thank you very much for your comments. i didn't make it easy for myself. when i first heard about what is now being discussed here, i was very skeptical and not sure if this proposal was right. i also questioned whether it was right what had been decided in 2008, that a special commission should decide on safety-related duty and rest periods with easa. i then looked at this very closely, i had many conversations, we had the hearing in the transport committee, and i also spoke to many individual pilots - not just the pilots of the union. i have come to the conclusion that this proposal is a good compromise and worthy of support. of course, it could still be better. i shall address the points that have been raised. we also heard in the hearing that the maximum night flight time should not exceed ten hours and that in the united states only nine hours are flown at night. here it is now eleven instead of eleven and three quarters of an hour as it was before. that's more than nine hours, of course, and more than ten hours. but if you compare that right now with the united states -- they have so much shorter rest periods when they've done an intercontinental flight or whatever -- i think it's far better to have those 11 hours, and a lot more rest periods when you've flown through time zones, which we have in this proposal. i have come to the conclusion that this proposal is in many ways a significant improvement on the status quo we have in many member states and also on what we have had so far at european level. that's what counts. the following has also been mentioned: if a member state or an individual airline wants to do better, to create even better conditions, that is possible. the crucial point is that we have made very good progress with this proposal. this is a compromise that the airlines were not at all enthusiastic about. you'll have to agree to that, too, if we decide to do so. we have made great progress with the safety conditions which will then really apply throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i advised my group today to reject the resolution tomorrow and thus support the proposal. first of all, because in fact - and this is very important - all our work would be in vain and the status quo would be maintained, which is certainly worse than what we have in the proposal, if the resolution were to be supported tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in 2009, there was a terrible plane crash in buffalo, where 50 people were killed because the plane crashed into a residential area. both pilots were asleep. the sleeping sound was on the black box. the united states said: 'nine hours a night and sixteen hours in total is enough!' we're a long way from that. one in three pilots admitted to falling asleep at least once, and one in two said that their copilot had fallen asleep as well. and in august 2013, two pilots fell asleep over the uk, thank god nothing happened. and the present model is the result of regulation 216/2008, where the council and parliament entrusted the commission with the task of setting eu-wide flight times taking into account the latest scientific and technical knowledge. ten scientists on behalf of easa and four other studies have said that ten hours is the maximum, otherwise safety is at risk! that's got to be the guideline! why, mr kallas, are you suggesting 11 hours? because planes from europe to the east coast of the united states take 11 hours, and they would have to use a third pilot if we were to stick to the scientific knowledge of 10 hours! that would mean an additional fee of eur 1.50 per ticket! i do not know anyone who says: 'i want to save €1.50 but i have to tremble for 11 hours to see if both pilots have fallen asleep!' the safety of the crew, the safety of the passengers - that must be the highest maxim and the priority! we have had no movement for three years and then, just before the debate, you come with triple steps to secure the majority in this parliament which you considered to be at risk. this is crazy and unacceptable! what happens if buffalo 2009 is repeated in europe? the laws would be changed immediately, and we would at least have american regulations. you would be responsible for such an accident because you refused to take over the scientists' ten hours! but the responsibility would also lie with all those colleagues who would vote tomorrow by roll call in favour of the commission's draft and against our resolution. so please vote for our resolution in the interests of the safety of the crew and passengers. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the safety of the road. we are discussing this in the transport committee, in particular, with regard to all modes of transport. but do you not agree that the safety of the skies, of the air operations over europe, is a very high one? if it really was as you described, that a lot of pilots were falling asleep all the time, wouldn't a lot more have happened? and thirdly, don't you know that pilots in particular have the option of saying, "i'm not fit to fly", and then declaring themselves practically unfit?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'd like to see the pilot admit it because he's afraid of being fired! but i can tell you one thing: it has always been said that this resolution is better now. but we don't know the rules of procedure! we haven't even seen it yet, but we're voting on it! it says that 12 and a half hours are possible, which is three quarters of an hour more than is possible now! we are not informed, we vote. that can't be true! and of course: i want legal regulations throughout europe! that is what you are here for, mr kallas, not for each member state to be able to create a different system! that's why ten hours is enough. science must be followed!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the proposals of the european commission on flight duty and rest periods for pilots and flight attendants are, in the truest sense of the word, dangerous to life and totally irresponsible. with the rules we've presented so far, it's only a matter of time before an accident occurs due to overtired pilots. already today, one in five accidents on the ground or in the air is caused by overtired pilots. the hours of duty now proposed allow crews to fly between 11 and 12 hours and 30 minutes at night, although scientists consider a maximum of 10 hours to be safe. they also allow a pilot to land a plane full of passengers after already being awake for up to 22 hours. a tired pilot will not be able to react properly in an emergency. passenger safety must take priority over profits for the airlines! because that's what it's all about. the pilot and cabin crew are to be legally protected, so that the balance sheets of the airlines are even better. the commission's proposals contradict the unanimous advice of five independent scientific studies, most of which were commissioned by the european aviation safety agency. the commission has also deferred crucial security measures to soft law procedures in which parliament has no say. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
mr president, commissioner kallas, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think this is really a very emotional issue that we're dealing with. air safety is the first and foremost driving or flying law that ever existed. it was therefore right that parliament, together with the commission and the council, set up a working group at the time, which was able to work independently, consisting of members of the european aviation safety authority, members of the national aviation safety authorities, pilots and cabin crew, who also had their experience and had a say. they have now evaluated out of the fifty expertise which exists and has been newly commissioned where the real flight time limitations are. they have reduced the night flight times from 11 hours 45 minutes to 11 hours, and they have extended the night flight window. and of course, they also have fatigue management, which is necessary to allow pilots to have reasonable rest periods, so that they can work reasonably while flying, even on intercontinental flights -- and remember, this is not about domestic flights, but the big ones, which also cross time zones -- so that they can work reasonably while flying, so that they can have rest periods in business, and many other things that are built into that. i think it is necessary to reflect on this. if there is still disagreement and we say that the return flight time between 11 and 10 hours must be regulated now, then commissioner kallas has just given us clear directives again: 18 hours a week, that is negotiated. anything over 10 hours of night flight time is considered with a special risk management. the solution finally has arrived! that is why we cannot support this resolution which you have tabled, madam president, but we want to see aviation safety conditions introduced throughout europe, minimum standards harmonised so that all passengers in our single european sky have the same safety conditions. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you mentioned easa. are you aware that the european court of auditors has judged, after its research, that easa is the best lobby group for air traffic in europe above all others? and that's confirmed here, that's confirmed in the passenger rights. and because the airlines get 30 billion euros every year from the taxpayer, because they don't have to pay kerosene tax and no value added tax on international flights, which the railway customers all have to pay, that's why we have here the third case of favouring easa. what do you think?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am also aware of your political arguments, mr cramer, which you use in every public event, so to speak, on the subject of kerosene taxation and so on. easa is a european air safety authority. it has no economic aims and is not politically influential. i want to make that very clear again. otherwise, they might as well blame it on the federal aviation administration in germany and other aviation safety authorities in england or elsewhere in the same way and say, "these are all bought-and-paid-for guys, and they're all about maximizing the airlines' profits". that is not the case, and i am against that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to our pilots and cabin crew for their continuing exemplary work! they are a big part of the fact that we have perhaps the safest airspace in the world. there is nothing that could not be made more efficient, safer and more socially acceptable. the european commission was therefore asked by us members of parliament to draw up, in close cooperation with easa, a draft law on uniform flight duty and rest periods for pilots and cabin crew. in four years, easa has evaluated over 50 studies. the proposal before us does not go as far as pilots expected, but it does not make the present situation any worse. if we reject the commission's proposal, the proposal is off the table, there are not even the small steps in the sense of the flight crew, but everything remains the same, the status quo. all the standards described today and rightly criticised by the media and airline staff will remain in place for years to come. however, if the bill is passed, as i am advocating, it will lead to the following improvements: firstly, we are for the first time arriving at uniform minimum standards throughout europe, which can of course be tightened up by the contractual partners such as trade unions and airlines in the sense of further reductions in flight time. secondly, where there are already better negotiated collective agreements for pilots, these will remain unaffected. thirdly, the maximum allowed flight time per day remains at 13 hours, but may be reduced to nine hours depending on a series of actual flights. fourthly, the maximum permitted night flight time is reduced from 11.45 to 11 hours in all cases. fifthly, as the time window for flights under the enhanced night time standard has been extended, this is equivalent to a reduction of two hours in flight time. sixthly, the principle is introduced: the longer the flight time, the longer the rest period, but at least 10 hours, 12 hours at home. seventh: after seven days, the required rest period will increase from 36 to 48 hours. and eight: the maximum flight time of 1300 hours per calendar year will be reduced to a maximum of 1000 hours within 12 consecutive months. i think that is a great step forward. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. in the united states, it's nine hours during the night. the united states is not exactly seen as the airline's model airline and an enemy of industry, but the opposite is true. they accept four hours more than is possible in the united states! and you're gonna sell us on that as a success? this can't be happening!
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr. cramer, just hear me out. the night flight time of 11 hours. you may be confusing this with day and night flight time, but you may be able to figure that out with yourself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. in this respect, we are in any case even better than the american solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know whether i have missed something in the political will-building that concerns our rules of procedure. but i have not yet realised that applause and protest are possible in the stands. perhaps you can explain why this is so today.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but if you think about it, if we were to vote for the resolution tomorrow and the proposal were to be rejected, do you think that at the appropriate time everything would be as perfect as you want it to be? and on the other hand, do you really want to see that if this easa proposal is rejected tomorrow, that we will continue to have worse security conditions than we have in the proposal?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to reply to a personal letter that you have sent me. in it, you describe the decision of the leading transport authority as a misunderstanding that arose from inaccurate media reports. i ask you: what gives you the right to defame the decision of a committee of experts in this house in such a way as to circumvent the rules of procedure? if you read your letter, you'll think you're reading a letter from the airline lobby. so my second question is, what do you get for this lobbying? i must say quite frankly that if a decision is being reviewed in this house under these circumstances, i wonder whether it is a sensible decision and whether it was really made with the safety of citizens and aircrew at its centre.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all await your decision tomorrow. i would just say one thing, which is that i have never appreciated personal insults in political debate, such as what was just said about lobbying and all those connections. i have also been heavily lobbied by trade unions, not by airlines, about this issue. but, if you remember, during the last period we created a european transparency initiative and an interest representative register. i do not know who all these people are who are registered here; there are 5 700 participants in this register, so we should look at what these lobbying activities are and how they are organised. i definitely have various comments on lobbying, if needed. but concerning this issue, my personal opinion is that this kind of table should not be for political decision-making. i cannot decide on 10.45, 10.15, 10.30 and all this, regulating the pauses between the flight duty periods; this should remain a matter for experts. and if you reject this proposal, i will definitely only send it back to easa, whose reputation on safety is very high, as has been recognised on many occasions. about these sleeping pilots, which has been so largely exploited: i was very happy that mrs foster said that this concrete example – and we also checked it – was wrong. so, there was no such case. they are allowed to sleep. this is in the regulation. the automatic pilot is always on during long-haul flights and this should not be mystified. there are periods when you must be awake and others when you can sleep. this is in the regulations, so it should not be mystified and used to create an impression that if one or other pilot is sleeping then the plane is definitely not under control. it is a substantially developed and developing process to make these technical amendments to avoid any kind of safety risk; they can be introduced after any accident. i also must say that europe is the safest flying zone in the world, according to data from 2012, so we do not have deteriorating safety in aviation. so that is it. i think that this proposal is an improvement compared with the existing situation, but of course, as i said, we respect your decision and then it goes back to the experts.
i would like to know why mr el khadraoui is speaking on behalf of the tran committee, expressing his personal opinion and not the opinion of the committee which voted 21 to 13 in favour of our resolution?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to mrs jordan for having been involved for some time in the building up of this important agency and for having raised legitimate questions about the functioning of the agency. acer, still a young body, has also been responsible for two years for monitoring the wholesale energy market, for monitoring and for preventing and prohibiting abusive practices in the wholesale energy trade in europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. acer therefore has to acquire a large amount of it and data processing equipment, which in turn must meet the highest data protection and performance requirements. we have therefore proposed, in the context of the 2013 budgetary framework, to reallocate and allocate appropriations from internal resources of the commission. this means that we have allocated enough funds for the current year for the purchase of hardware and software. the only thing that is needed now is the approval of the budgetary authority as soon as possible, and then we could get this it platform this year from the funds provided. i can also assure the house that we have allocated sufficient funds for 2014 to operate these data protection systems and to develop the corresponding it and data processing software, provided that the mff is adopted soon. this is the first part: the procurement of it and data processing hardware and software and the commissioning of these. but it is clear that it systems also need employees. that is why we need - and this has been rightly pointed out - sufficient staff. we have therefore provided at least 15 suitable posts, which the agency has already filled. so we think that in 2014 the resource allocation can at least be sufficient. if there are any further demands, any further need for further staffing, we will deal with that in the commission in due course, but we have the general problem that we as a commission are supposed to reduce our services by 1% a year over a five-year period, by 5% in five years. this is the contribution that the commission has promised to make to budgetary policy, including towards the member states. this clearly limits our scope for restructuring and creating more jobs in acer. we then started a process with acer to re-allocate the existing human resources and budgetary resources, including in terms of whether remit should be given an even stronger priority. we are also examining these possible rearrangements within acer. i can assure you that we, as the commission, have not only proposed this european legislation, remit, to the house of lords and have wanted it to be so, but we also want the success of our monitoring and control of wholesale markets in the interests of transparency and so that our consumers also have an advantage in that price formation is subject to market economy principles and not subject to any abuse. i thank you for your interest and i look forward to continuing this dialogue on further implementation with you, ms jordan, in 2014.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i can only agree with your arguments that we need a strong authority, that we need to enforce remit, that we need to complete the european single market and monitor compliance with the rules. i have no objection to that. i would also like to take 10 or 20 more posts, but in line with the guidelines of the european council, in line with the discussions on the mff, we have relatively tight staff budgets. if eisa - despite a 5% reduction in staff in five years - does not have the net increase in posts that we all want, but does have an increase, this means that other agencies, directorates-general and services or representations in the capitals or in the world will have to face a more significant reduction. that is why we are rapidly reaching the limits of what we can expect from our colleagues in the college, who also have responsibilities - and, by the way, from your colleagues in other specialist committees, who have other priorities. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but with a 5% reduction, you'll only be able to get a limited amount of staff for new tasks. i say to you, and this also applies to my directorate-general beyond the mandate of the present commission: we will see how well eisa can do this with the new posts now available, with the internal restructuring of the agency, with the hardware and software it has acquired, and with the cooperation it has with national regulators. if it turns out in a year or two that we have not yet done enough, then it is certainly not for the commission to talk to the member states and parliament about further appropriations in the context of budget implementation. i expressly agree to a timely review of the developments.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, during the last few years of conflict in syria we have been witness to a number of tragic milestones, but early september saw a particularly depressing one: the number of refugees registered or awaiting registration passed two million. more than half of them are children, another quarter are women. as i speak to you today, the number of refugees from syria has risen yet again to more than 2.1 million. not only is this an appalling reality for those whose lives are marred by traumas, violence and displacement, it also constitutes a huge challenge for syria’s neighbours, and unless things change for the better inside syria the un estimates there may be almost 3.5 million refugees by the end of this year. in recent months in particular the number of syrian nationals heading towards eu member states has significantly increased. the council has been following with great concern developments in the syrian crisis and is aware of the potential challenges to member states of increasing migratory pressure from nationals fleeing from syria. the issue was discussed most recently at yesterday’s justice and home affairs council. at that meeting ministers reiterated the firm commitment of the eu to step up assistance to those affected by the crisis. the council also received a report from the commission on the results of a recent fact-finding mission to some of those eu member states most directly affected by migratory pressures from syria. we are aware that the scale of this plight places an enormous burden upon the governments and host communities in jordan, lebanon, and in iraq and turkey. we therefore commend syria’s neighbours for having kept most of their borders open, providing a safe haven for those who have lost everything. we strongly encourage these countries to continue on this path. at the same time, we acknowledge the international community’s responsibility to share part of the burden by offering support to those who so generously host large numbers of refugees. the eu and its member states have been at the forefront of providing assistance in response to the syrian crisis from the outset. almost every member state is seeking to help alleviate the suffering of the syrian people both inside and outside the country. this is despite the current difficult economic climate, and in some cases very strict budgetary constraints. to date, humanitarian funding for the syrian crisis stands at more than eur 1.5 billion with two thirds coming from the member states. a further eur 412 million has been mobilised through non-humanitarian eu instruments, a large part of which will benefit host communities and local societies. this brings total funding by the eu and the member states to more than eur 1.9 billion. the eu has also called on donors to increase their coordination and asked humanitarian partners to reinforce the monitoring of their activities so as to help provide an overview of the assistance being provided and so ensure better accountability towards our citizens. this action to address humanitarian needs must be strengthened, given the lack of any immediate prospect of an end to the conflict, but the eu is also considering measures over the medium and long term. the objective of the eu is not only to provide assistance to refugees but also to support the countries and communities in the region affected by the current refugee flow. the commission, in close cooperation with the relevant international partners, is preparing a regional protection programme which is especially designed to address the medium and long-term challenges of the syrian humanitarian crisis and is expected to start functioning early next year. the council yesterday welcomed the progress towards the establishment of this programme and invited the commission to continue this very important work. the resettlement of syrian nationals in need of protection and the allocation of refugees between eu member states are amongst the measures currently under consideration at eu level. these measures can benefit from funding through the european refugee fund, which will become the asylum and migration fund when negotiations between the council and parliament are concluded. we are focusing this morning on the particular issue of the plight of refugees but we must not lose sight of the most important goal: ending the violence and heading towards a peaceful and democratic transition in syria. we have consistently emphasised the need for a political solution – the only possible solution to this war – and the need for the security council to act and effectively end this conflict. the high representative has welcomed the united nations security council resolution on syrian chemical weapons as representing a major step towards a sustainable and unified international response to the crisis in syria. it follows on from the important decision taken by the opcw executive council in the hague. this decision should pave the way to the elimination of chemical weapons in syria and set a standard for the international community in responding to the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction. the legally binding and enforceable resolution condemns the attacks of 21 august and calls for accountability for this crime. it envisages a forceful international reaction in the event of non-compliance. the eu has reiterated its readiness to support actions foreseen under the resolution as well as under the decision of the opcw executive council. we are indeed in contact with them to discuss practical support. we need to take full advantage of this momentum. internationally we have continued to work with all partners – with the us, with russia, the un and many arab nations – to achieve a united international response. the united nations security council resolution contains a very clear endorsement of the geneva agreement reached on 30 june 2012 and calls for a convening of the follow-up conference as soon as possible. over the past two years, the syrian conflict has deteriorated into a full-blown civil war. the need to provide innocent syrian civilians with humanitarian assistance is greater than ever before. the eu and its member states have made an outstanding contribution to this effect and will continue to be among those leading a way to securing further funding. most importantly, we are increasingly pooling our resources and the presidency is ready to play its full role in this endeavour. the council takes note of the parliament’s draft resolution on the table today. it proves once again the attention with which this parliament has been following the appalling situation in syria and its spillover effects in the whole region. in humanitarian assistance, as in other policy fields, it is clear that we can act most effectively when we coordinate among ourselves and build on the particular strength and experience of the eu, of its institutions, and of each and every member state together.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for having called this urgent debate on a very serious and even tragic subject. my colleague, kristalina georgevia, is in new york and my colleague, cecilia malmström, is with president barroso this morning in lampedusa. they have asked me to speak on their behalf, and i have the honour to give you the commission's view after that expressed by the lithuanian deputy minister. my first words are of course in continuation of the minute of silence which your parliament has observed. they express, on behalf of the commission, our sympathy and solidarity with all the victims and their families after the new tragedy in lampedusa a few days ago. so many victims have been identified, many of these men, women and children fleeing conflicts in the middle east and africa. ladies and gentlemen, recent international initiatives, and in particular the russian-american agreement on the control and destruction of syria's chemical weapons arsenal, which does exist, and the un resolution, have undoubtedly made the possibility of a military response as announced by the united states and its allies less likely. this does not mean that the situation in syria is stabilizing. on the contrary, the campaign and military operations on the ground continue. the european union, through the voice of its vice-president/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, my colleague catherine ashton, has consistently stressed the need and requirement for a political solution, which will be the only way to end this war, and the need for the security council to act and effectively end this conflict. the european union has consistently indicated its readiness to support all actions envisaged under this resolution as well as under the opcw executive council decision and remains in constant contact with the opcw specifically to assess how best to provide its assistance on the ground. we are at a crossroads in this conflict, catherine ashton feels. it is very important that the international community understands the importance and gravity of this moment. we will continue to work with all our partners, the united states of course, but also russia, the arab countries, the united nations, to develop a political response from the international community, which is a united response. the security council resolution contains a very clear endorsement of the geneva agreement signed on 30 june 2012, which calls for a follow-up conference as soon as possible. as minister leškevičius has made clear, syria - and this is precisely the subject of this debate - is one of the biggest international crises we are facing, with the displacement of a third of the population. more than two million refugees are now registered with unhcr, the united nations high commissioner for refugees, in neighbouring countries and, in particular, countries that i know well personally, lebanon but also jordan, turkey, iraq and egypt. it is also necessary - i would like to say this on behalf of the european commission - to emphasize the commitment of the authorities of these countries and the solidarity of the people of these countries with the syrian refugees. unhcr estimates that by the end of this year, the number of syrian refugees in the region, in the countries bordering syria, will reach 3 to 3.5 million citizens. the european union remains and will remain at the forefront of international aid to this displaced population. almost €2 billion has been committed since the end of 2011 by the commission and the member states, under the control of your parliament, to support humanitarian efforts. the european union is by far the largest donor in this crisis, but we are clearly reaching certain limits in this respect in 2013. i would also like to point out that more than half (56%) of this humanitarian aid, provided by the commission and the member states, is directed to the countries neighbouring syria and therefore 44% of this aid is directed - we are trying to do this - to syria itself, through a number of means and associations. neighbouring countries, notably lebanon and jordan, also report that their resources and capabilities have reached the limits of what they could bear. the european union is doing its utmost to ensure that syrian refugees receive adequate humanitarian aid and legal protection in all these neighbouring countries. a regional protection programme, supplementing the first short- and medium-term support programmes, is also being prepared in close liaison with the member states and our international partners. this regional protection programme, this solidarity programme, must be both a protection and a development initiative, which will be implemented in jordan, lebanon and iraq, and will benefit not only syrian refugees but also other refugees from other countries and other host communities. following the call by the un high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, to admit 10 000 syrians to europe, and to resettle 2 000 of them among the most vulnerable, germany, finland, austria, denmark, hungary, luxembourg, sweden, the netherlands and ireland decided to allocate a number of resettlement places or humanitarian aid to these syrian refugees. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank these member states for their solidarity and their important contribution to our collective efforts, and i would also like to call on the other member states to follow suit. almost 50,000 syrians have sought international protection in europe since the beginning of the crisis, 50,000 syrians! the majority of applications were submitted in sweden and germany. we also see that syrian refugees take different routes to reach europe: land routes first, through turkey, bulgaria, greece or through the western balkans; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's maritime policy is not disrupted by the turkish and egyptian maritime routes, and we can see this in the tragedy of lampedusa, from more distant destinations such as italy. we also know that the journeys are often organized by networks, by criminals, who exploit the desperate and miserable situation of these refugees and migrants. the tragedy of lampedusa a few days ago has once again shown several very important and very serious things: firstly, the extraordinary attitude of the municipality and the people of lampedusa, and this effort of solidarity and dignity which we wish to highlight and for which we wish to thank them, but also, and at the same time, the need to act more effectively, without complacency, against the networks of these criminals and, finally, to improve - i think so - the quality and scale of rescue and solidarity operations at european level. this is precisely what my colleague, cecilia malmström, proposed yesterday to the council of ministers for home affairs. of course, the influx of these refugees into europe is not comparable to the number of these refugees who are taking refuge immediately next to and around syria -- i just gave the number -- but the number of desperate people who want to reach europe is increasing and putting pressure on some national systems, as we can see in malta, cyprus or italy. the member states of first entry, such as bulgaria, cyprus and greece, where dozens of syrian nationals arrive every day, are also the most exposed. italy has seen numbers rise recently with new arrivals making it across the mediterranean. we must prepare for the possibility of an even greater influx. a european commission mission, assisted by the european asylum support office (easo) and frontex, with the means that frontex has today, and after close consultations with unhcr and the international organisation for migration, visited bulgaria, greece and cyprus last week. the situation as it stands shows that it is very important to work together. this is no longer a strictly national question, it is a european question and the answer is certainly not in closing our national borders, in back-sliding or in an attitude of barricading ourselves, it is in more europe and more europe: any crisis of this magnitude affects us all, and we must prepare for it in a spirit of greater solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, we have already put in place a number of measures to support the member states, to ensure a coherent approach at union level, in cooperation with easo and frontex. the commission has mobilised emergency assistance funds under the european refugee fund, the external borders fund and the european return fund. joint operations coordinated by frontex in the mediterranean and at the south-eastern land borders are faced with mixed migratory flows. the agency and the host member states shall participate in these operations. they have increased responsibility for ensuring the strict application of union management, including full respect for the principle of non-refoulement. we want to assess now, together with the member states, the effectiveness and the means available in relation to this crisis and in relation to the needs of today and tomorrow, and we want to be prepared to find - i think - additional funding from the budgetary authority. i think it will be necessary. this financial assistance could be complemented by enhanced easo activity and, if necessary, by the deployment of teams that could support the member states concerned. if the situation deteriorates further, as we may fear, if we then have to deal with more massive arrivals of refugees and migrants at the borders, frontex should be prepared to strengthen its joint operations. such a strengthening will not be possible without additional efforts on the part of the member states, and this will require additional financial resources for the coordination of operations, and all this in a budgetary constraint, as you know. i also believe that the european union's civil protection mechanism must play a role. i have not forgotten the work i did, which you have personally heard about, in 2006 to create a european civil protection force. my colleague, kristalina georgevia, has worked hard over the last three and a half years, step by step, to implement a better preventive response of pooling national resources, because that is what this is about. it is not about creating new means but about putting them together better and preparing a crisis response in case of natural, industrial but also political and human catastrophe like the one we face with the syrian refugees or other countries. finally, i would like to mention one last sensitive point related to the syrian crisis and other crises in the region, which is at the heart of the terrorist threat in europe today: foreign fighters. the number of foreign fighters from the european union travelling to syria to date has been unprecedented in comparison to previous conflicts. while we have no indication at this stage that all of these fighters are involved in operational activities on behalf of extremist groups based in syria, we do know that they can use their experience and networks to pursue and encourage self-directed attacks against the interests of western countries, and in particular, europe. that is why, beyond all these main aspects of solidarity and humanitarian action related to the syrian crisis, we must also remain vigilant about european citizens travelling to syria as foreign fighters and the threats they may contribute to the security of the european union. that is the information i wanted to give, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the views i wanted to express on behalf of the commission and my colleagues, mrs georgieva and mrs malmström, who asked me to excuse their absence. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. 93,000 dead since the start of the terrible civil war in syria -- these are the un estimates -- 2.6 million refugees outside syria, 4.6 million inside syria, which is often forgotten in the discussion. lebanon has banned the construction of new refugee camps because it fears for the stability of its own country. egypt is expelling syrian refugees because of its own internal problems. jordan and turkey are also doing enormously. the conflict we are witnessing in syria is happening in our immediate neighbourhood. we can practically watch from cyprus what is happening in this part of the country. so it's good that we're discussing this today, that we're addressing this issue today. it is important for all of us to first appeal to the powers that be to stop this madness, and that we all who have outside influence on syria remember to contribute to stop the madness. but we are called upon to do something very specific on the refugee question. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for its commitment to show the face of europe in aid, to be active on the ground. we in the epp group have specific requests. firstly, europe must now be able to provide concrete quotas. i am not saying that the council should be unable to take decisions on the matter. we need a clear commitment to unhcr that europe, the european member states, will take in refugee quotas, with unhcr being the one to choose who comes to europe. we have to help the people on the ground, in the neighboring states. the commissioner, the vice-president, has now said in a very clear manner that we are having funding problems in 2013. i would like to say this in a more concrete way: it is a disgrace for the european union that the supplementary budget is not there, that we are not able to live up to our responsibilities as the european union in the neighbouring countries. thirdly, in view of the dramatic situation in lampedusa, despite the challenges in syria, we must always be aware that we must distinguish at the border between people who are really persecuted and people who are entering illegally. that is part of the truth of this discussion. mr president, i ask the european council to put this matter on the agenda and to discuss it as one of the priorities! it is not a technical question, but a question of whether europe is showing humanity, whether europe is showing heart! we need the european council to put this issue on the agenda and to decide on specific points to solve the refugee problem.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would also like to begin by expressing my respect for the attitude of many people in lampedusa who, sometimes under the threat of punishment, helped other people and saved their lives. i think we are being asked very clearly here to express both our criticism of italian legislation and our criticism of the way in which the member states are reacting to each other at the eu level itself. the conference of ministers of the interior yesterday was a disgrace to the european union. that needs to be said clearly and unambiguously. (applause from the centre) in view of this situation, the humanitarian catastrophe and the shared responsibility of the european union, to say that there is no need to change european asylum policy is not just to bury our heads in the sand, but to consciously share responsibility for the deaths of people. i would like to make it even clearer: i was very pleased to see you, mr weber! you are from the csu and you have taken a position here which i wish the german minister of the interior would take up! (interruption of the debate) (applause from the centre) listen, you know his tone, and i think it's disastrous. it is not possible to stand up and say that it is completely incomprehensible that we are being asked to show more solidarity. it can't be! anyone who speaks like that is also partly responsible for the protests and the attacks on refugee shelters in germany. that too must be said clearly! there are a number of suggestions as to what we should do now: one of the things that i think is part of really talking about this european conference on migration and asylum is actually doing something concrete about the current refugee situation. secondly, a change in the current orientation of european asylum policy. thirdly, the opportunities that already exist, such as the right of self-entry, should be used, so that member states can take action themselves, in order to eventually take in refugees from the countries that are massively affected by this, since they are on the external borders of the european union. it is possible today, it does not have to be discussed for a long time, it just has to be done. only then will the european union at some point regain a measure of credibility, and this is particularly in the interests of a world of solidarity. and i would also like to point out that when calculations are made of the number of people per million inhabitants in italy or germany who will be accepted as asylum seekers, these calculations leave out completely those who are not included in any of the figures, those who are so-called illegal immigrants in greece and elsewhere. if we do not deal with this, if we do not really open our eyes and address the problems accurately, then we will not be able to help effectively here, either in view of the situation inside syria or outside syria. then it will be a solidarity and a condolence that we express that is poisoned. i don't think that's worthy of us. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, more than two million people have already been forced to leave syria. europe has taken in some 8,000 refugees. 8,000 against 2 million is nothing but a cynical mourning game. we urgently need a comprehensive resettlement programme, and we need it in real numbers! if we are asking syria's neighbours to keep their borders open, then we must open our borders and allow for legal ways of escape, for example, through humanitarian visas. how about we take action ourselves instead of always pointing the finger at others? because we can act now, right here. we can help people. we do not have to wait for a un mandate to do this, we can do something concrete now for the situation of many people. we should not shift the responsibility onto the neighbouring syrian states!
member of the commission. - madam president, the applause for mrs vergnaud is justified and deserved in view of her commitment and determination. in addition, in thanking the rapporteur, i would like to associate with her work, and with this thanks, the fictitious rapporteurs whom i myself had the opportunity to meet, constance le gripp, christian silviu busoi, heide rühle, emma mcclarkin, thomas händel, matteo salvini, and then, as you said, mrs vergnaud, the professional associations with whom we have had many previous consultations. i am very pleased that you are able today, with this debate and with your vote, to set a new milestone in what we have called together, and which you have also called for. mr president, the single market act is a very important one. it is a piece and a cornerstone of this act for a humane, practical, concrete and citizen-led revival of the single market, which is the basis of our economy. it is an important text for the mobility of professionals and, at the same time, for the protection of patients and consumers, while respecting the different education systems in the member states. this is also true, mrs vergnaud, and i repeat it to avoid any unnecessary controversy, of the dual system of education, particularly in germany. this new directive will make the recognition of qualifications simpler and faster. in no way was there any question of proposing an agenda for deregulation in europe. our aim is to make life easier for our fellow citizens who are working in another country and to give them all the legal security they need. there has been a great deal of cooperation in achieving this result, which has finally resulted in a positive and balanced text that serves all the interests of the citizens. i thank all the fictitious rapporteurs and president malcolm harbour for his always constructive involvement in this work. there are many new provisions in this text: partial access, recognition of traineeships, updating of the minimum training conditions applicable to the professions which, too few of them, mrs vergnaud, are now benefiting from what we call automatic recognition. i would like to emphasize two points in detail. firstly, the professional card, for which you have been fighting for many years, long before i became commissioner, and i am glad that we have achieved this professional card together, on the initiative of parliament, which has become one of the best ways of facilitating the recognition of qualifications. this system is based on the use of a system which i like very much, namely the imi system, which has already proved its worth and allows all the competent regional or national authorities, of which there are about six thousand in this system, to exchange information automatically and quickly in the language of each of these authorities. we are thus achieving a real simplification of procedures. i would also like to thank the european parliament and each of you. this map is getting a lot of attention. i have already received several letters from sectors and professions who feel concerned and wish to work and benefit from it as soon as possible. we will meet those needs without delay. my services are currently preparing the practical implementation of the card so that everything is ready for its introduction at the end of the transposition period by the member states. the legislative proposal also ensures better protection for patients and consumers by clarifying the rules that apply, in particular to language skills. the text also provides for the establishment of an alert mechanism for health and education professionals who are suspended or banned from working. i hope that this safety and alert mechanism will be implemented in parallel with the european professional card to maintain the balance, which you and i want, between mobility for all professions and safety for consumers or patients. the aim is to achieve a good balance between mobility and protection. the second and last point is the exercise of transparency. the proposal provides for an exercise in transparency concerning regulated professions. as i have said in the past, my objective, our objective is certainly not deregulation of the professions but rather to arrive at a regulatory environment which is proportionate and adapted to the objectives of protecting the general interest. protecting the health and safety of citizens and consumers is our priority. i think we can combine this protection with the promotion and facilitation of access to certain professions. some countries, such as poland, spain and portugal, have already undertaken reforms which i welcome. under these conditions, the consumer could benefit from a wider choice of services at competitive prices. the transparency and mutual evaluation exercise is thus aimed at enhancing the mobility of qualified professionals, promoting the development of service activities across national borders and enhancing the competitiveness of professional services. i believe that better integration of the single market for professional services will provide a leverage effect in support of economic recovery and growth, especially for young people. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, i proposed a communication on regulated professions on behalf of the european commission a few days ago, on 2 october. i see this as a work plan, an appeal to the member states and the professionals concerned to discuss together in several stages how to make this transparency exercise a success. the aim is to engage member states in an evaluation to map the regulated professions, to examine concretely and objectively, on a case-by-case basis, the regulations governing access to each profession and to determine, at national level, the best modus operandi for action in the priority areas of mobility and security. these are the two points which mark the road we want to take together. depending on the results of this work, the commission will assess, in consultation with parliament, the need to take further measures, in particular in the context of the european semester. in any case, thank you, madam rapporteur, thank you for this work, for this completion which is extremely important for the internal market.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. together we have achieved a great deal for mobility in europe with the vocational qualifications directive. as rapporteur on the health committee, i am particularly pleased with the progress made in protecting patients. in future, for example, all member states will be informed when a doctor's licence is withdrawn, so that he cannot practice in another member state without being noticed. as far as nursing training is concerned, we have succeeded in finding a solution which really takes account of the training models in all the member states. in future, two pathways will lead to the nursing profession: either ten years of general education and dual training or twelve years of general education and academic training. we have thus firmly established the dual training system, which has been very successful in germany, in europe as well. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is my last plenary week as a member of the european parliament, having recently been elected to the german bundestag. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members for their constructive and always very objective cooperation. i have greatly appreciated the fact that in the european parliament we can work together really well across party lines. it is an honour to have been a member of this european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we social democrats are concerned with the rights and security of citizens, not the market. that is what we are doing with this text of law which we are debating today and which will be adopted. first of all, i think it is particularly important to introduce the european professional card, which my group had already launched in 2004, but at that time the commission was not yet ready to go along with it. i am very glad that there has been a great deal of progress in this area. it is precisely this professional card that will also give young people and others with high qualifications the opportunity to move freely and without obstacles in the european union. that is what we need for the citizens. we have also taken a very important step in the field of safety, by ensuring that there is an early warning system, especially in such important professions as doctors, to ensure that if a doctor loses his license in one country, other countries are immediately informed and can act accordingly, so that what happened in my constituency recently, where such a doctor has been doing wrong in a clinic for years, endangering the safety of patients, is prevented. these are the things that are important to the citizens. and i'm glad we got this far today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to join in the general thanks, especially to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and i regret, of course, that mrs weisgerber is leaving us. we shall of course have to take that into account. i would like to point out, however, that some members of my group have reservations about article 53 on the language test. there will be a statement on this too. but i hope and believe that today there is a clear majority in favour of the compromise and that you have a clear and secure majority, madame vergnaud. i would also like to use the debate to ask the commission not to jeopardize the compromise that has been negotiated with such difficulty. i have heard the clear statements of commissioner barnier and i thank him very much for them. however, the communication on regulated professions raises new concerns. the debate is once again about the master letter. it is a fundamental part of dual training, which is also appreciated by the commission as a tool for reducing youth unemployment. the questioning is causing renewed anxiety. it would be important to clarify this, because these fears are also fuelling anti-european sentiments. i would therefore be grateful if the commission could make a clear statement on this matter.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if we want freedom of movement for workers to be voluntary, we must make it easier to recognise professional qualifications. i agree with commissioner barnier that it is a question of mobility and security. i would add that it is also a question of quality and of clearing up the jungle of competence. the european professional card promotes voluntary freedom of movement through simplified procedures. we have strengthened consumer protection, particularly in the health sector, by means of the necessary language skills, higher minimum qualifications and the early warning mechanism when activities in the health professions are prohibited in a member state. it was important and a hard job to get access to health professions in germany with a ten-year school education. the directive will give 50 000 primary and secondary school pupils access to these services. this strengthens the dual vocational training. and this is an appeal to the commission: strengthen dual vocational training, improve the quality of training and not reduce it!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, especially those from my group, mrs ronzulli, mrs anja weisgerber and mrs le grip, for the truly extraordinary dedication they have shown to a very complicated dossier. i am of course very sorry that mrs weisgerber is going to the german bundestag, but i believe that she will be able to do a great deal for europe there too. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, for the excellent work she has done in this area. i therefore believe that the compromise we have found in the framework of the vocational recognition directive on the recognition of dual training will help to ensure that people who may have a little difficulty in vocational training at the beginning can all have a fair chance in the end and that this model, which has proved to be successful in some countries, is now finally being properly recognised. i would like to make it clear at this point - particularly as i know that there are some reservations in sweden about this regulation - that the european parliament and the epp group have never had the aim of reducing the level of training of nurses with this proposal, but we firmly believe that good training - no matter where it begins and where it ends - is ultimately in the interests of those who practice the profession and in the interests of those who are cared for by people in sickness and in need. i would also like to mention the profession of notary, which is also affected by this directive. we wished it had fallen into the realm of application.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am in favour of this. i was very sceptical, however, about the goodness of the arrangements which the commission has put before us. if there's a chance here that they can improve, that we can come to an agreement, we should take it. we have time for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased to welcome you today, mr president, to the european parliament's plenary session. you are the president of a country that is very important to us. since independence in 1960, senegal has been a stable democracy, a state governed by the rule of law, a state that respects human rights. most recently, this democratic tradition of your country was reinforced by the peaceful transition of power in april 2012, which saw you become president of your country. i am not going to go into detail. senegal and the european union are closely linked by historical, political, economic and cultural ties. for the european union, your country, mr president sall, is a strategic partner. i would like to mention three examples where i consider your country's commitment and your personal commitment to the cause to be exceptional. on the one hand, senegal makes an important contribution to stability and peace in the region. the participation of your country in the un mission in mali was particularly impressive to all of us here. on the other hand, senegal has a key role to play in combating religious fanaticism and drug trafficking and in actively addressing the growing famine. and thirdly, senegal is a model for improving the situation of women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. more than 40% of the members of the senegalese national assembly are women. i think that some european countries can take a cue from this. (applause from the centre) mr president, when you visited me in brussels about a year ago, shortly after you took office, we discussed how the european parliament could help to strengthen democracy and parliamentarism in senegal. your commitment, mr president, has helped to ensure that we have today intensive cooperation and an agreement on technical cooperation between the european parliament and the national assembly of senegal. this cooperation is organised through our office for the promotion of parliamentary democracy. i look forward to seeing the concrete results of this cooperation for myself when i visit in two months' time, as you have invited me to do. mr president, i would like to thank you for your work. i give you the floor.
mr president, this is the very point where the epp voting list has to be corrected. there should be a minus in the following roll-call vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the epp directive today. as far as i know, only two member states have so far implemented the directive currently in force. i think that the commission should therefore rather ensure that all member states do their homework and implement the directive before revising it again. the eia directive also brings more red tape and legal uncertainty than i could see any benefit for the environment. construction projects, infrastructure projects, project implementation are being made considerably more difficult. i don't think that's very helpful. the current eia directive and the fha directive already contain strict requirements and conditions to protect the environment. i just don't think it's right to be here again. that is why i voted against the directive today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the directive. the eia directive is also well known in the committee on petitions, as a large number of petitioners come to us with problems relating to the application of this directive. for example, many people feel left out because they are denied a say or because existing environmental impact assessment rules have not been properly implemented. there also seems to be a tendency to settle unpopular projects in the border area. the neighbouring country is then although affected not sufficiently involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the project is not limited to the border. in this context, the objective should be to revise the directive in order to simplify and harmonise the existing rules. the report does not meet that requirement and i could not therefore agree.
in writing. the zanoni report goes beyond the scope of the extended application of the eia directive. of course, a better respect for natural habitats is an important concern for projects throughout europe. however, implementation and uniform application remain a problem in the eu first and foremost. the commission considers that the exemption from the agl is not necessary to ensure that the agl is not used to the detriment of the beneficiaries. the member states must be allowed effective scope for action.
in writing. - i am voting against this directive today. i am not opposed to public participation in planning projects. i think it is important, especially in the border area of my home state of saxony, that the wishes of the saxon public in the neighbourhood be taken into account, for example, when planning wind farms. i do not think that the changes proposed will lead to a balance between the needs of environmental protection and economic development in the future. the proposed arrangements will certainly lead to undue delay in the approval procedures, which often take far too long already. this could lead to delays in the implementation of important infrastructure projects such as power lines, i.e. legal uncertainty for investors and a weakening of competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, in the plans to amend the directive we also failed to take into account the fact that this would create a higher financial and administrative burden for local and regional authorities in europe, which would be impossible to cope with in the face of empty public coffers. given the already high level of public participation in environmental impact assessments, i consider the current arrangements to be fully adequate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's about the speedboats and the jet skis. i think it was a good report, a good decision. in future, there will be strict emission and noise limits for motorboats and new types of motorised watercraft, known as water-powered motorcycles. this applies to rivers and lakes and to all coastal waters in the european union. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. this means that new models must be significantly quieter. and anyone who has been in the recovery areas where this sport is played, who has experienced the conflict, knows that this is a very important decision. the cdu/csu and i support the new arrangement reached between the european parliament and the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information system is a very important and good report, which is why i could agree. the existing directive is not being replaced, but is being cleverly revised. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new system. the use of the internal market information system is compulsory. the report endorses all the important proposals of the commission, improves the recognition of traineeships and reinforces the obligation of the member states to ensure continuing vocational training. and important for us from a german point of view: notaries were excluded from the free movement of services. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information system. this is a very important issue, namely the mobility of eu citizens within the internal market. i support the simplification of the recognition procedures and the removal of the existing bureaucratic obstacles, but i also stress the need to ensure the quality of the services. with the introduction of the new 'european professional card', every worker can now prove his qualifications in europe in a uniform and simple way. we have been able to achieve a good compromise in the training of nurses: two options are now accepted, a 12-year general education plus an academic training or a general education of at least 10 years plus a vocational training, as is common and successful in germany.
in writing. the report on the recognition of professional qualifications helps to promote freedom of movement. the european professional card is designed to document the skills of the individual, also to break down barriers in other member states. i welcome the simplified operation which the internal market information system is to support. the eu commission has presented an initiative on regulated professions, which has led to an outcry of indignation in germany among the approximately 150 occupational groups. the alleged obstacle in the internal market, namely that a particular qualification is required to pursue a profession, is in fact a proof of competence. it must not be softened by the pharmacist, the nurse, the dentist or the nurse. without qualification, there is no quality! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the successful model of dual training must not be allowed to be undermined. in my country, craft enterprises with a licence are training four times as many young people as those in non-licensed sectors. the european commission is cleverly trying to push black peter onto the member states. they are to put pressure on germany to reduce the entry requirements. that is a very strong objection!
in writing. - i was very relieved to approve this report today. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy. this would have meant that in future a real school diploma would no longer have been sufficient for training as a nurse in germany. today we confirm that we can maintain our german system of 10 years of general education plus vocational training. i thank all those who have worked so hard in the long and difficult negotiations for this compromise. the increasing tendency of the european commission to academise professions which are recognized as teaching professions in our country is unacceptable. our nursing staff is highly trained thanks to our dual system, even though many nurses do not have a high school diploma. the idea of the european commission to make vocational qualifications more comparable in order to promote the mobility of workers is very good. in this case, however, the absurd result would have been that we would have had fewer trainees and not more. this would have been a completely wrong development, especially in view of the demographic change in many parts of germany.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. racism is killing! that hasn't changed. racism has killed pavlos fyssas and many other people throughout europe, mostly people who came here to seek protection. in germany alone, 183 people have died as victims of racist or right-wing violence since 1990. i am glad that the greek government is finally taking action against racist organisations, albeit too late. too long just watched. but racism is not just a problem of a few individuals on the right. racist attitudes run deep into the heart of society. that is why we must take action against racism everywhere. all democratic parties are called upon to make clear their opposition to all forms of discrimination and resentment. when politicians talk to the right-wing fringe, they only make it fit for the party. when parties adopt demands from the right outside, they do not turn the juice off the right, but give their demands a democratic stamp. if members of parliament or ministers are inciting prejudice or following a 'the boat is full' logic - and here i am explicitly referring to the german minister of the interior, friedrich - then they are telling the citizens: yes, the right wing is right. we all have a responsibility to prevent that. all democratic parties must clearly distance themselves from xenophobia and everyday discrimination and do so on a daily basis! if you agree with right-wing arguments, you put yourself on the wrong side. beer-cellar talk has no place in the european union! i would like to thank vice-president reding very warmly for her clear words. i would like to hear these clear words from others, from your colleagues, from ministers in the european union, from our colleagues here. thank you very much for that! and i hope that together in europe we can do more to fight racism. because racism kills!
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, after 9/11 a lot of things happened that didn't work 100% with our normal rules of cooperation and the rule of law. we need to make it clear that this will not happen again. but we must also make it clear that it was done under these circumstances. and we also have to make it clear that we have to find rules of a rule of law kind that also enable us to fight terrorism at the same time, and not say that this is the opposite of fighting terrorism. we must also remember that the united states is not our enemy and we must not allow this impression to be created in such debates. we must also make it clear that we must see that even in a state of law such as the united states, these issues are also discussed critically in society and politics. i say this to avoid the impression of a false balance. i hope that the council and the commission can help us with these questions, that they can be answered. i must also say, however, that there are some points which are difficult, as is clear from the text of the resolution. the words 'could' and 'to clarify' appear quite frequently in it, which means that it is not clear to us whether there is really anything to it in the individual case. so we should also define it as something that is claimed, because we're not always sure that in each case there is something. but i also want to make a connection here -- which is why i'm particularly interested in this -- with the discussion that we're having at the moment on the nsa question. i would like to support the vice-president in making decisive progress on the clarification of the rights of european citizens, their right to information and to bring legal proceedings, for example in the united states. this is an opportunity to look forward to finding solutions, that we make progress in the area of data protection, that we make progress in the rule of law, so that we can go forward to find constructive solutions so that at a later time, things like this, which obviously or allegedly happened there, can't happen again. we must also find rules to ensure that the rule of law does not get in the way of the necessary cooperation between security services. that can't be a contradiction! it is therefore necessary that we make these links clear. that is why we must finally conclude the framework agreement on data protection with the united states, which clarifies the information and complaint rights of european citizens! all these questions seem to me to be of great importance, and we must establish this link in order to find in this way strengthened legal solutions for future times. i therefore say that i am a co-author of the request but not of the resolution, which i cannot fully support for the reasons i have just mentioned. i must say something ironic here: at least my country is doing well in the resolution. it says that it once answered a letter. but that was an ironic remark.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the respect of fundamental rights and human rights is, of course, one of the key elements of the european union's policy. it is therefore obvious that we must do everything we can to ensure that they are respected and that we take action where they are not respected. but we have to ask ourselves: what is the added value of this resolution today, which we are going to vote on tomorrow? we voted on this matter in 2012 on the own-initiative report by our colleague mrs flautre. it was objectively balanced, it was acceptable, and it is also right that we ask the commission or the council what has actually happened and how we are going to deal with it. it is also right to recall this matter. but i do not think it is right that we should again be dealing with the same content. if we just repeat what we did last year, it's self-employment. and i have to ask myself why this item is on the agenda if we do not have the questions to the council and the commission. the resolution goes beyond what we have already decided in 2012. the demands set out in the text simply go beyond the powers and possibilities we have as the eu. we should respect that. it would have been more correct to have relied on facts, on innovation, on adequate solutions!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i agree. it's a very difficult subject. i think pope francis summed it up best when he said, "there is only one word for this situation and this catastrophe. and that word is shame. it is the disgrace of the european union. with this new disaster, lampedusa is a symbol of what we have all known for a long time: the mediterranean is a mass grave in which far too many people have been dying in hopeless circumstances for far too long. it is the result of a refugee policy of the european union that is designed to isolate and deter. and i think the pope was right once again when yesterday the interior ministers of the european union decided that nothing would change in the basic lines of european refugee policy. i think that is totally unacceptable and this debate must lead to parliament making another proposal in october, which must be changed. that in the future everyone - whether frontex staff, with the instruments of eurosur, naval, maritime, civil, military - must consider it a duty to save people, refugees in the mediterranean. it is crazy that we have to stress this today after so many disasters! we must ensure that the asylum legislation that exists is implemented in all the countries of the european union according to the rules that we have - including in italy, including in greece. and we must ensure that all the countries of the european union do their part. the calculation examples and figures which have been circulating in the last few days are no excuse for not meeting our responsibilities - especially not because we are not consistently enabling legal immigration of these people to europe. let me talk about other numbers because the numbers have been coming up so much in the last few days. there are almost 50 million people on the run around the world. refugee camps in uganda have to deal with 500,000 to 1 million people for a long time! there are growing problems with people who have to leave their homes for various reasons - persecution, poverty, climate change - and we are concerned about how many thousands of people we have to take on our responsibility, to take care of in the rich countries of europe! if this continues, i hope the pope will behave differently, especially towards the politicians and parties in europe who use the word "christian" in their title! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i mean, we all need to record, but i know we need to record more. there are proposals from the unhcr, the un refugee agency, on how we as europeans can live up to our responsibility for people who have lost their homes and are in great need, some of whom do not even turn to the authorities for fear of persecution, and how we can better protect them. these are things that we need to talk about and make decisions on very quickly, because homelessness and displacement of so many people is one of the greatest challenges facing the world in this century. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – i did not hear any question in this.
i have to say, madam president, the disaster at lampedusa is a disgrace to europe. we have received the nobel peace prize, but we are doing nothing for the people who believe in peace and security in europe. almost every day people drown on their way to europe, where they are actually hoping for protection and a life of dignity. the logic of closure and of the tightening of borders in recent years has meant that migrants have had to take ever wider and more dangerous routes. this policy is only the basis for the business of the smugglers. something has to change! and if not now, when? the rescue at sea needs to be better coordinated. the fact that this would happen to eurosur is nothing more than a pious wish. eurosur is precisely reinforcing the fatal logic of the blockade. the governments of the member states must finally put an end to their unspeakable blockade of common rules on sea rescue. and if frontex is to save refugees now, then we must first change the mandate of frontex so that they are not just responsible for border security. we need to finally have legal access to asylum in europe. those seeking protection must not be forced to risk their lives. a humanitarian visa is already available. the member states are therefore now being asked to make use of the instrument. only legal access can relieve refugees of the need to make the dangerous journey. it's the only way to put criminals out of business. unfortunately, the council has decided to do nothing and simply wait for the next disaster. the commission is now being asked to put forward something, but it is also up to parliament - and us - to stand up and say: 'we cannot go on like this, we must change something!' we can't wait for the ministers to make a move.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i speak on behalf of my colleague, mr enciu. we are still under the impression of the events in lampedusa, which have brought to our attention the intolerable situation on our external borders. we must recognise that shared borders also mean shared responsibility for the people who risk their lives to reach our shores. eurosur provides a framework for information exchange and cooperation between member states and frontex in order to detect new situations more quickly and to improve the possibilities for action at external borders. this should help to better combat crime and limit illegal migration. the text also commits to protecting the lives of refugees, particularly at sea. for me, this also means safe access to europe, because only here can the status of these people be clarified in an orderly procedure. parliament has fought hard to ensure that eurosur contributes to the protection of migrants. the explicit demand that this system respect fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement underlines our position. let me make a personal note: the bossi-fini law is in flagrant contradiction to our demand for respect for human rights, and it should be clear to all the institutions to send a clear signal here and to call for the abolition of this law. i am not going to go into detail. a globe without boundaries is a science fiction. in our real world, there are states and federations of states that have borders between them for many reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope we shall have a broad consensus here.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we greens have been committed from the outset to using eurosur to improve the rescue of refugees in distress at sea. a majority supported this, including many shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur. thank you very, very much for this. but what have we achieved in the end? we've gotten it to say life-saving, but we haven't gotten it to say it's in eurosur. the member states, and in particular the mediterranean countries of the eu, have done everything possible to ensure that they no longer have to save lives with eurosur. member states must work together more closely to prevent illegal immigration and crossborder crime, but not to save lives - not even on a voluntary basis! and frontex monitors the mediterranean to prevent illegal immigration and cross-border crime, but not with the aim of saving lives. the only thing we have achieved is that we will know in the future how many refugees will be in danger of dying on their way to europe. but member states do not have to improve maritime rescue. we do not need another refugee protection system in europe, we need a refugee rescue system. and that is why we greens have tabled an amendment to strengthen the role of sea rescue in eurosur, so that it is not just a cosmetic product on the label, but is actually part of it and the objective of eurosur is given equal status! we want eurosur to be able to help in practice to improve the rescue of refugees at sea. i would therefore ask you all to support this amendment.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. with all my sympathy for the rapporteur - and i congratulate him on his birthday - i will not let eurosur have a single good hair, because we do not need any more measures to criminalise, control and monitor migrants! because that is the main objective, if we look at article 1 of eurosur. and we need nothing to stop us as the eu from making saving lives a central humanitarian task, and not just contributing to it. so we have the wrong message to send here, and we should not be blinking here either. we don't need new bodies to get rid of migrants as quietly and as well-looking as possible. we don't see the need to buy expensive security equipment and create any kind of situational picture. we need this much, much money not for eurosur, but for saving the lives of migrants, for welcome centres, for resettlement, for development aid that deserves the name and promotes sustainable development in these countries of origin, and not just capital exports. if you really want to vote for refugees, you have to vote against eurosur!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would remind you, mrs malmström, that there were problems with the implementation of this agreement before the recent revelations. and secondly, i would remind you once again that long before the current agreement, the us used swift data because the server was in the us, and this fact also only became apparent through media reports at the time. the current media reports, with their very serious allegations, do, in my view, call the agreement into question. you yourself mentioned the letter to david cohen, and the wording of the reply is very remarkable, namely that the terrorist finance tracking programme is a good thing for obtaining swift data which you cannot obtain by any other means. but how? and also the additional note that since the agreement no data is taken from swift in europe - yes, but perhaps on the way from a third country to swift, or from swift to a third country! - and that would also mean for me that this agreement cannot be continued. our colleague, mr díaz de mera, said that we must not act hastily. so the criticism of the agreement and the reports in the media have not been on the table since yesterday! i would like to return to what the commission promised us a long time ago, namely the extraction of data on eu soil. in 2011, there should be a proposal for this! it has not been done to date, and that too is a cause for criticism. so are we now acting rashly when we demand something, like a freeze on the agreement? i'm not going to. if we had proof, we wouldn't have to freeze the deal, we'd have to terminate it immediately. i think it is right to freeze the agreement in order to have the opportunity to do intensive research and also to put pressure on the united states to provide evidence as to whether or not a violation has occurred. in the meantime, we must not allow our name and signature to be used to exploit the data of european citizens!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i have to say i am a bit shocked that the commissioner is so comfortable with these answers from the us government. i just want to repeat what has already been said by birgit sippel. mr cohen wrote that the us government is using the tftp to obtain swift data and that, i quote, ‘we do not obtain from other sources’. it is obvious that they are trying to avoid giving an account of what they do and stating whether they are in compliance with the swift agreement – obviously they are not. obviously they are referring to the authority which they have under their own laws to access these data, and i think that is reason enough to suspend the agreement and to undertake a real investigation. i am also shocked that no eu government and no eu authority or law enforcement authority is investigating what is clearly information on a possible cyber-attack on the swift company and on european personal data. we really need to take the opportunity, in our work here at the european parliament, to cancel this agreement and to renegotiate the terms of police and justice cooperation with the united states, and to make sure that eu companies and companies like swift have to follow data security and data protection regulations and directives as they exist today and make sure that these rules are better enforced in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what we're doing today is the usual swift puzzle. it's the same thing every time. whenever we have this issue, we find that we are not getting any real facts on the table. we can't get the truth on the table. we're always dealing with a black box and a lot of mystery. even data protection experts - we heard this at the nsa hearing - from the usa, who are now certainly not suspected of being close to the left, are urging the european union to suspend swift, to first check what is really going on! you're not even ready for that! you are very serious today, mrs malmström, there are no injuries. what's your evidence? your evidence is a letter you received? is that the basis on which the investigation was conducted? what kind of investigation have you been conducting? what facts do you have? what proof do you have? you wouldn't let that happen in any other case! but you can't do that here. i must also say that when you read the letter, you do not feel even the slightest hint of a corrective impulse or any perception of the problem! the question is, are we going to take it? there is a specific provision in the swift contract. this is article 21 (1), which provides that termination may be effected at any time, subject to certain conditions. i don't understand your attitude, which you wouldn't take towards other countries. i don't understand what's going on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are making fools of ourselves as european citizens!
i have to say, madam president, happy birthday to you too! i would like to say something about that now. the value of the swift agreement is on the one hand in the fight against terrorism, and the value of the agreement is also in the balance on data protection. i simply cannot understand why, on this contractual basis, it is now thought that something must be suspended because of the nsa spying until it is proven. the majority of parliament has agreed to the whole thing, in the belief that it is necessary to monitor the financing of terrorism accordingly, and that has not changed. we have always assumed that the swift agreement should be terminated only when we are sure that we are in a position to do something similar. but we are not yet. i therefore think that a suspension - or any other - of this agreement as regards the security situation is simply irresponsible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are also calling ourselves to question ourselves, because we cannot wait to see what our results are. we have found that we have no evidence at the moment, at least not until the commissioner tells us that we have not handled the contract lawfully. the swift company has made it clear to us that they have very strict privacy or network requirements, that they have checked it and they have found nothing. so we have no evidence of this at all, just this from the media. because i mean, at least i've only read, i've only been referred to the manual that the nsa has to monitor swift accordingly. we have no proof. but we have two different processes: the legal one, namely the agreement, and the illegal one. i cannot understand why you want to abolish the legal, the bringing of the united states back to a reasonable path, and then allow the illegal taking of data. in the end, i think we can only lift it if the treaty is not being properly respected, if the nsa has circumvented it accordingly or if we have our own system of tftp, also basically for security. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so i can't see why the german government is not interested in what is happening there. that is why i cannot understand the question. and i also have to say, we've asked swift about this, and they have the expertise, they've said it themselves: we're able to detect these tracks. and they didn't recognize her! so it's easy to say we don't have any evidence at this time. and if we don't want to act illegally in this area of contract law, if we don't want to become the same as we accuse others, then we have to basically stick to these things that we say: contract yes or no , the nsa yes or no or a system of our own.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is really important that we have better cooperation for police and justice in europe. we need this but – as i have said and as my group has said for years now – we need common standards in order to have better cooperation. we need common standards with regard to data protection, procedural rights, the principle of the rule of law, and basic principles laid down in our constitutions. it is not sufficient just to say that there should be mutual recognition of common standards in europe. that is not sufficient. we need to work on common standards so that we can better facilitate the work of police and justice authorities. we also need to concentrate on those things which facilitate police and justice cooperation on the ground, not by spending vast amounts of money on mass surveillance systems which, in my view, have not proved to be very efficient in lowering crime rates, but by investing in things like the joint investigation teams of europol and the real cooperation of police and justice authorities at a local level. that would be the right way to proceed, but that is not the policy which is currently being followed by the member states in the council, nor, i have to say, by you as commissioner. i hope this will be improved and that we will go in the right direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i will answer your questions in order. as you know, the european economic area agreement was negotiated 20 years ago under circumstances very different from the world we live in today, and the contracting parties are well aware of the changing environment. we therefore welcome the review of the functioning of the agreement that was published by liechtenstein, norway and the commission and the eeas in december last year. we consider that the agreement has continued to function in what is overall a satisfactory manner. we welcome the substantial efforts made by the three eea/efta countries in the course of the past two years to reduce the number of outstanding legal acts still to be incorporated in the eea agreement, but we insist on the need for the efta states to address this issue as a matter of priority. we need to underline that the principles of homogeneity and legal certainty guarantee efficiency, sustainability and, ultimately, the credibility of the internal market. therefore that must guide the action of all parties in relation to the functioning of the eea agreement. the increased attribution of powers to agencies on the eu side needs to be reflected in the functioning of the eea agreement in order to avoid the risk of unbalanced levels of enforcement of the internal market rules. the legal acts establishing these bodies define the type of participation foreseen for third countries – including eea/efta states – as observers or as full members without voting rights. efforts are ongoing to find appropriate solutions. the area of financial services, for instance, is particularly challenging to the eea/efta states in relation to the powers granted to the european supervisory authority. another outstanding issue is the role of the efta surveillance authority. in the two-pillar construction architecture, the role of surveillance played by the commission in the eu pillar was mirrored by the role of the esa in the efta pillar. however, when it comes to the issuing of fines to economic operators, as foreseen in certain regulations, the eu and efta have a different understanding as to whether the esa should be given the same powers as the commission. so we are in ongoing negotiations to find a solution for the efta surveillance authority and imposing fines on economic operations. you also asked about the extension to andorra, monaco and san marino. in november last year, the commission adopted a communication, as you know, on relations with these three close neighbours in western europe. this set out five options for participation, ranging from very ambitious to least ambitious. in december last year, the council requested further analysis on the basis of two options. one is the participation of these small countries in the eea; the other is the negotiation of one or more framework association agreements with them with a view to giving them access to the eu’s internal market, its flanking measures and horizontal policies and including institutional mechanisms following the model of the european economic area agreement. we are now working on this analysis of the different options, and we will submit a report to you – the european parliament – and the council, before the end of the year, with recommendations on the next steps. the possible impact of the participation of andorra, monaco and san marino in the internal market is under analysis. however, given the small size of the populations, it is likely to be minimal. we are talking about some 150 000 people in total. nevertheless, common rules and thorough enforcement are essential to guarantee a level playing field and legal certainty for eu citizens and economic operations. finally, i will talk about switzerland. a review of an overall well-functioning eea structure is in place. the commission is of the view that switzerland’s participation in the eea would probably constitute the simplest solution to the problems encountered in the current situation with the setup of relations with the eu. an extension of the single market in its entirety to switzerland would be to the benefit of consumers in the eu and in switzerland and would promote cheaper products, more efficient provision of products and an increased choice of products. the commission, however, respects the wish of the swiss people not to be part of the eea. at the same time, the current sectoral approach creates problems for the uniform enforcement of the internal market rules. this would, of course, be addressed should switzerland decide to join the eea. in the absence of such a decision, the commission is endeavouring to find a solution in an institutional framework and is preparing for negotiations with switzerland on this. the objective is to ensure maximum transparency and legal certainty for consumers and operators throughout the internal market. i hope this answers the honourable members’ questions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it's getting pretty late. but i am of course glad that you have answered the questions of the committee on the internal market so clearly. the smaller countries you mentioned at the beginning will be discussed in more detail by my colleague mrs sanchez-schmid. i would therefore like to concentrate on switzerland, which you mentioned at the end, commissioner. mr cofferati, in his introduction, pointed out that in the context of the negotiations which the european commission has been conducting with switzerland for some time, we members of parliament are naturally particularly interested in being informed of the progress of these negotiations. you have just mentioned that you are working on the institutional framework for an agreement which may take place even without switzerland's accession to the eea. in this context, i would like to ask you whether you agree with me that the bilateral agreement on competition law is, of course, a bit far from the commission's demand that further bilateral agreements only be possible if switzerland agrees to an institutional solution, and that it was a pragmatic solution which certainly was very close to the dg competition and the reflections there. secondly, i would naturally like to hear from you what is going on with the energy agreement, whether the commission is still insisting that an energy agreement with switzerland can only be concluded if at the same time switzerland accepts the institutional framework you have just mentioned and we find a legal body that is acceptable from a european point of view to settle possible points of dispute and from a swiss point of view to be accepted as a 'foreign judge' for the disputes that arise in a few cases, but also between europe and switzerland. i'd be very interested in your opinion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that both the european economic area and, to my knowledge, the 120 bilateral agreements concluded with switzerland so far show the attraction that the european union still has for countries outside the union. however, there are also examples that show that states must also take into account the sensitivities of their own population. i would just like to give an example of iceland and norway. we know that norway has twice tried to join, but has been blocked by its own people. in the case of iceland, we know that now, under the new government and with the better economic situation, interest has waned. but we also have the example of liechtenstein, which shows that eea membership can indeed be successful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i think it is up to the european commission, mrs malmström, to ensure that - as you have said, the five options you have mentioned - there is now, and soon, a possible individual solution for these three microstates.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i remember a news report on tv about a russian woman standing outside the olympic stadium holding up a poster against the anti-gay law. she was abused and threatened by a horde of young men and then taken away by the police under their jewels. it was a disaster. homophobia has a bad and unrefined negative tradition in russia. it's a disaster! and now this law. we need to get to the bottom of this. human rights are universal. they must be applied worldwide, and of course they must also be applied in russia. what else! but we need to talk to russia about this. we are not getting anywhere with sanctions. we need to talk, and we need to talk seriously, and we don't need to use this as a fig leaf. that is why i support the approach of the commissioner, who is really working here and trying to open up the debate, perhaps the only one. i am angry at the council, which is asleep at the wheel on these issues as usual and which is not really involved in these issues as usual and is actually dealing with homophobia in its own countries and not doing enough there either. commissioner, i just wanted to say that you should continue with this, it is extremely important, even for people who are affected. i'd like to go back to russia, even on vacation, with a clear conscience. maybe we can all do a little bit of that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, a big thank you to our rapporteur. i would also like to thank the chairman of our committee, mrs mazzoni, who was unable to deliver this very passage because of the limited speaking time. the committee is the first point of contact for many people when they want to complain about problems with european laws and thus also their first point of contact with european institutions. this alone must be the incentive to continue our work and to keep improving. i am therefore very pleased that the number of petitions, some two thousand, shows that many citizens are taking advantage of this opportunity. we have talked about this: we want to improve the active participation in european politics for the people. the committee on petitions - or the committee on complaints, if you will - is a suitable means for me of involving citizens directly in active politics. i would also like to thank our petitioners, who are very much needed, because we members of parliament have some of that too. it's not just that we can address complaints, show concern and also make improvements. i think the main result of this work is that we are also taking up many proposals for improvements to directives and regulations and discussing them with the relevant specialist committees. in this way, the petitioners are helping to make the european union a little better and a little closer to the citizens. most people still complain about problems with their european fundamental freedoms, environmental legislation and the internal market. the european union has a lot of work to do in this area. but we in the committee on petitions can and should do our job even better. firstly, a quarter of the petitions received had to be declared inadmissible. this means that we need to consult and inform european union citizens even more about the right to petition to ensure that petitions are submitted correctly and in the right place. and secondly, we must be able to reduce the time taken to process our petitions considerably.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my colleague made a statement here which i do not quite understand. she claimed the petition committee was being abused by conservatives. my question is very specific: if i remember correctly, 99% of the decisions in the committee on petitions are taken by an overwhelming majority. if you are making such claims, you should make them very specific and not just put them in the room. this is an annoyance and i would like to express my displeasure on behalf of my group.
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like you to take a seat. tonight our long-time colleague wilfried martens passed away. mr martens, born on 19 april 1936, was the president-in-office of the european people's party. mr martens has had a long political career in his home country, belgium, a long political career at european level, a long political career here in the european parliament. mr martens was prime minister of the kingdom of belgium from 1979 to 1992, with a brief interruption. mr martens was the leader of the european people's party group in the european parliament from 1994 to 1999. wilfried martens was a deeply committed european. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. mr martens was one of the outstanding representatives of the benelux community, whose creation was part of the process of the founding of the european communities and whose contribution to european integration cannot be overestimated. mr martens was a man who, as a deeply committed catholic, was a leading politician in the christian-democratic movement in europe because of his understanding of catholic social teaching. but the guiding principle of wilfried martens has always been that the contribution of the national states in post-war europe must be to overcome the division in this continent through the cooperation of states and peoples across borders, because we have always received from him the message 'together europe is strong'. if europe is founded on the values of tolerance, respect, democracy and the will to recognise its own right to the right of the other person's opinion, then europe is on the right track. with wilfried martens, the european people's party has lost its outstanding leader, the kingdom of belgium a great belgian statesman, and the european union a great european. i ask you to rise in honor of wilfried martens. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i am not going to go into detail. it is with great pleasure and honour that i inform you that the conference of presidents has just unanimously decided, on the proposal of the relevant committees of this house, to award the sakharov prize to mrs malala yousafzai. (applause from the centre) malala is a young girl you all know her fate. this is a young girl, a young teenager, who, in the violence-ridden swat valley of pakistan, had the courage to say, despite a hostile, male-dominated, violent environment, "i'm going to school!" i want to exercise my parental rights! i am an equal member of this society as a girl! her example encouraged other girls, encouraged a whole group of young, growing women in this valley to stand up for their rights, not to be intimidated. and that courage led to the fact that vile criminals, people who can only be despised, shot at this girl to murder her. but not just to kill malala, but to kill the spirit that malala represented. thank god this girl survived that assassination attempt. anyone who followed the fate of malala, and anyone who witnessed how this girl, after her recovery, continued her struggle, without being intimidated, but on the contrary, was encouraged by the great consensus in the world to continue on this path, anyone who could follow this, can only be filled with admiration for this young girl. i am grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the house, to the members of the committees responsible and to the conference of presidents for this decision. the decision to award malala is a decision for this girl, but it is also a decision for an attitude, namely the attitude of the european parliament, that wherever in the world men and women are equal and that all women and all girls in the world who stand up for their rights have an ally on their side: that is the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i am proud that this decision has been taken, and i am glad. i think we all do. i would like to say that i too look forward to seeing this young woman here in strasbourg in november and to presenting her with this prize. i think this will be one of the great hours in the history of this parliament. i would add, ladies and gentlemen, that this young girl's struggle is not a struggle comparable to what we are doing here. this is a young, adolescent girl who is threatened with murder, an 11-year-old who is told, "we're going to kill you because you're exercising your right to want to go to school". what courage it takes to stand in the way! for me, ladies and gentlemen, malala is already a prominent figure of the 21st century! (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, today is the 11th international day against the death penalty. the european parliament has been campaigning for the abolition of the death penalty worldwide for decades. we europeans are united in our firm conviction that no matter how abominable a crime may be, it must not be punished by another killing. last year alone, according to amnesty international, at least 682 people were executed in 21 countries. in addition, there are probably thousands of executions that are not officially confirmed. china, iran, iraq and saudi arabia were also responsible for the largest number of executions in 2012. at least 23 500 people are still in prison awaiting execution worldwide. in 2012, more than 1,700 new death sentences were handed down. we deeply regret that countries such as gambia, india, japan and pakistan resumed the use of the death penalty in 2012 after years of suspension. but there is also good news: the number of opponents of the death penalty is increasing worldwide. 97 states have abolished the death penalty by law. in 140 countries, governments, parliaments and public authorities have spoken out against executions as a form of punishment. the united states is certainly a notable example: one third of the states have now decided to abolish the death penalty. i believe that the european parliament, with its overwhelming majority, will continue to do everything possible to support this positive development. on behalf of our house, i call on all states to abolish this inhuman and cruel punishment! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr watson. i have difficulty in seeing where it is a contribution to the rules of procedure. i would ask you not to call into question the dignity we have shown here today by this kind of speech. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mrs. gomes. we understand your concern. but that was not a contribution to the rules of procedure either. that is why i am announcing, ladies and gentlemen, that i will no longer be speaking on political issues. you cannot abuse motions for a resolution to convey political messages, as much as i understand as a politician that you have to put your message somewhere. but not in the context of a debate on the rules of procedure.
i am not going to go into that. i pointed out in the conference of presidents - please check the minutes - that after the decision was taken i would ask my colleagues there if they would now like to tweet. it's obvious that's what happened. i don't know how i could have been so disrespectful to the house. moreover, a decision by the conference of presidents to keep such an operation secret - you may be able to do that, but i cannot. but you should talk to the group leaders.
i'm not going to die. i propose that we look at the minutes and if mr engel's behaviour is unacceptable, i will invite him to a meeting and explain to mr engel that it is not decent to call you a liar, provided we look at the minutes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim is to strengthen control of the external borders of the schengen area through the eurosur system and the exchange of operational information, cooperation and frontex, in order to reduce illegal immigration and increase internal security. i voted for the report. the most sensitive and controversial point is the introduction of an amendment which regards the protection of the lives of migrants as the main objective of the proposal. on the one hand, there is no competence on the part of the union to regulate search and rescue operations at sea, but on the other hand, we are of course responsible for the protection and rescue of migrants. i am therefore pleased that a compromise package has finally been agreed, which states that eurosur will help to ensure the protection and survival of migrants.
in writing. - the report by mr mulder rightly points out that improved technical cooperation in the field of border controls will quite simply bring about substantial improvements. this is in the interests of the member states concerned and of the european union. the security of europe's borders is also regarded by citizens as an elementary part of their shared responsibility. however, it is precisely in the light of the recent incidents in lampedusa that europe must begin to discuss how we can finally begin in earnest to define the responsibilities of individual member states more clearly and develop a common european strategy that effectively combats trafficking and offers refugees from africa and the orient a real prospect in their home countries through increased development aid.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can agree with my predecessor that the main problem with this report has always been that button cells can still contain mercury. we know how it is in everyday life, these button cells are not only disposed of by special waste, but often - because they are often so small - are also disposed of by normal waste, and thereby there is a higher risk of environmental damage. the rapporteur has therefore proposed a ban on button cells containing mercury. the compromise was finally agreed on 31 december 2015 and a three-year transition period for their abolition. in addition, all shadow rapporteurs have agreed to ban button cells containing mercury by 31 december 2014. i think it's a good compromise. we must now ensure that this compromise is implemented simultaneously and in a holistic manner throughout europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the attacks on christians in pakistan are shocking to all those who stand for human rights, tolerance and peaceful coexistence. three weeks ago, two suicide bombings killed 80 people and injured 120. they blew themselves up outside a christian church in peshawar, right after sunday worship. pakistan has signed the un human rights convention, which includes the guarantee of religious freedom. the government and the security services have strongly condemned the attacks, but they cannot be allowed to remain mere confessions. in particular, in the north-west of pakistan, where extremist islamists commit crimes, there is a considerable need to catch up in the protection of people of other faiths. the european parliament expressly supports all initiatives by courageous citizens calling for the repeal of the blasphemy law in pakistan. intolerance, violence against religious minorities and the totally unacceptable impunity in some regions must not have a future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. syria and iraq, which we'll be looking at later, formed the fertile crescent. it was the cradle of all the world's great cultures, and for over two thousand years, christians have lived there. we should be clear that it is not a question of religious conflict, not even of religious freedom, as is often said, but of the naked physical existence of people who have enjoyed home rights there for over two thousand years and whose lives are being taken away, whose home is being taken away, whose basic human rights are being taken away. who else but us europeans should be fighting for them? and one thing must be said clearly: wherever people disappear, wherever christians disappear, wherever their rights are destroyed, there the rights of all people and all ethnic groups and all religions are also destroyed, as we are seeing at the moment in iraq, where this year alone in the supposedly liberated iraq 5,000 people were murdered christians and non-christians! and syria is on the same path - unfortunately also in the extremist part of its opposition.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i'm glad you're defending the christians. but why are you attacking europe? we are now dealing with the fate of christians in almost every plenary session, we are inviting bishops, we are giving material aid, we are passing resolutions and dealing with individual cases. did you miss all that? this is now, thank god, a focus of our human rights policy!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have a group of guests here today from bavaria and alsace, germans and french, and not only christians, but also muslims, and i want to counter the impression that only radical islamists persecute christians. think of the tip of the iceberg: the 2013 world persecution index tells us unequivocally: communist countries, like north korea, are the world champions of christian persecution. they're not in the paper, either. but i will still support this paper because it is important that we in this european parliament take a stand on the subject of persecution of christians, even if we cannot list here all the forms of persecution that christians face globally. i am glad that we will also get a large majority. and i am sorry that the gue, the left group, is refusing to do so, because we are not going to solve all the problems globally with this one resolution. i think we must send a signal that we are in solidarity with people in need, with christians who are persecuted, as a european parliament, as a parliament of human rights.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 october 2013.
ladies and gentlemen, may i have your attention, please? i must ask you to change the agenda if you have to. i'll do it right at the beginning of our work week. i have to tell you this: the president of the european commission, mr barroso, informed me this morning at 7.30 that he was concerned that the commission of the european union would be insolvent by mid-november if supplementary budgets which are not yet adopted were not adopted. without further evaluating this statement, and without being able to analyse it in detail, i must nevertheless inform you that i have received this communication from the president of the commission and that i must take it seriously, which i do. it is the request of the president of the commission, which he has added to this reference to possible insolvency, that we should adopt the supplementary budget, which is intended to compensate for the shortfall in revenue from the customs revenue of the european union, in an urgent procedure. this is a sum of eur 2.7 billion, which is part of the european union's own resources. the budget estimate was higher than the actual amount. that's why 2.7 billion are missing. the european parliament, as you know, was already prepared to adopt these amending budgets. the council has asked parliament not to do that but to adopt the amending budgets of 3.9 billion, 2.7 billion for the lack of customs revenue and 0.4 billion from flood relief in one package. the council has now changed its mind and does not want to adopt it in a package, but to advance the 2.7 billion from supplementary budget no 6 and adopt it here by an urgent procedure. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' would be a step in the right direction. i must ask you this: i recommend that you take a decision at the beginning of this parliamentary week. first of all, i asked mr lamassoure, the chairman of the committee on budgets, to convene an emergency meeting of the committee on budgets for tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, the supplementary budget requested by the council may be here by then. we have had to find out today that it has not yet been adopted by the council. but i'm assuming that might happen. i'm not familiar with the council's shallowness, but i can imagine they'll still manage to accept it. if it has arrived here, the committee on budgets could examine it. and i would suggest that you decide today that if the committee on budgets has a supplementary budget tomorrow and approves it, then we could decide on thursday morning to put this item on the agenda for the plenary. that's my request to you. i repeat, a special meeting of the committee on budgets tomorrow evening. at this special session, if the council's draft is up to date, the committee on budgets may discuss it, adopt it if necessary and refer it to the plenary. then the plenary could vote on it either on wednesday or, more likely, on thursday. i would therefore ask you to put this item on the agenda for the vote on thursday morning. i regret to have to confront you with this now and i would be grateful if you could give me your position on this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not when the historic compromise on the budget and the mff was reached between the council and parliament some time ago, we did not think that this was the way to do it. the european parliament is not going to be better off if it is again being pushed into a position of weakness by the big movers behind the scenes, as joseph daul has so well described. i therefore think that it is not right to change the agenda before we have something, and that we should at least be supportive. that means that we have the opportunity every morning to decide whether we want to change the agenda and then we can do so. but this kind of backstage and black peter-like posturing is totally unacceptable, because the situation that we do not have enough money is not our responsibility.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not since we have been talking about the mff and the budgets for last year, this year and 2014, the accompanying question of the european union's insolvency has always been a means of pressure and it has always been a wall that has been pushed in front of us. we are now again seeing that we are being put under pressure and that parliament is being held responsible in public if the european union does not fulfil its obligations. i don't think that can be. i also insist on behalf of my group that we demand clearly and unequivocally that there should be a specific proposal for a resolution on the 2.7 billion. it must be in writing. the committee on budgets must be able to check that. we must be able to examine this in the groups and then decide on thursday whether we put it on the agenda. i would also like to emphasize that the question of the 3.9 billion euro is an essential one for us. this has been emphasized on several occasions. and i reject at the same time - and i say this again clearly - that the payment of the 3.9 billion for the supplementary budget is equated with the conditionality of the approval of the mff.
ladies and gentlemen, i must remind you of this once again. i have had no other opportunity than to inform you of this now. please put yourself in my shoes . i am informed this morning, not by anyone but by the president of the commission, that according to his services, who informed him, he has no money left by mid-november and he is asking me to speed up the procedure. i cannot withhold this request from you, which is why i have put it here. i am therefore a little surprised by some of the remarks made here. i'm just doing my duty, nothing more. i regret to say that i am not allowed to comment on this matter from this chair. i think it's well known. what we have here, mr speroni, is the result of their national governments, which they love so much. it is not the european parliament that is taking this approach. we are in this situation because the member states are clearly not fulfilling their obligations. and mrs. zimmer, i'm going to tell you something else, i've said this over and over again: article 323 of the treaty is clear. the institutions as a whole are obliged to provide the eu with the resources we need to fulfil its tasks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and eventually, we'll get to the point where we can't do that anymore because we're legally obligated not to. i'll make that very clear again. i always get a lot of support for this, but when the moment comes, surprisingly, a large majority in this house thinks that you have to pay. so i would ask that we be relatively consistent. my proposal to you is this: i have asked mr lamassoure to convene a special meeting of the committee on budgets to examine whether this supplementary budget is in place. if it is there, it can be evaluated, and if it can be adopted, then it is up to you, the house, to decide whether to put wednesday or thursday on the agenda. there are two ways we can decide today for thursday. my suggestion to you is not to do so, but to wait for the meeting of the committee on budgets and then decide whether or not this can be decided here. you can do it on wednesday, but you can do it on thursday. i would just ask you to do so, to decide on wednesday or thursday whether you want to vote on it or not. i will ask the vice-presidents-in-office to raise the matter on wednesday, or possibly thursday morning, and then decide whether you want to vote on it or not. mr daul, one more reference to the 3.9 billion. there's no arguing with 3.9 billion. it is quite clear that without this supplementary budget of 3.9 billion , the 2014 budget cannot be put into effect. this is a resolution of this house, to which i am also bound.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so far i have received nothing from the council.
mr cohn-bendit, i see you're running into open doors. i'll pass that along. you will remember that this is not the first time that i have been obliged to inform you of such events. i note that you agree that we should ask mr lamassoure to call this sitting for tomorrow evening and in the light of the results of this sitting i shall approach you at the beginning of the sitting on wednesday and thursday to ask whether the item should be put to the vote. the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 october 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have no opportunity to discuss this because there is a ban on discussion at the conference of presidents. and please, you can have different opinions, that's democratic, but you should be able to have them in a debate. if you do not have time for a report, you should put it down, but you must be allowed to discuss controversial reports in this house. anything else is undemocratic!
i'm not going to tell you. there are no discussions which the conference of presidents could ban. that is quite impossible, and i reject that as well. the conference of presidents shall abide by the rules of procedure. the report by mrs estrela is an own-initiative report, which is presented here in the form of a summary, like many other own-initiative reports of this kind. that is what the conference of presidents decided, nothing more. tuesday:the reports by mr böge and mr la via on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2013 and the supplementary budget no 7 were not adopted by the committee on budgets. that is why they are removed from the agenda. monday, wednesday and thursday: no change. (the agenda is therefore adopted.) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to offer my thanks to parliament for the draft resolution on the warsaw cop. i think we also heard many of the points of view reflected there from mr schlyter. you all know that this is a very challenging process. you also all know how important it is that europe can play its leadership role there. we must also have very active climate diplomacy. i have just got back this weekend from the african environment ministers meeting, having had the chance to touch base with representatives from some 55 african countries. a month ago i participated in the pacific island forum with 15 heads of state representing our pacific island friends, and during the opening week at the un general assembly we convened our friends from durban, where more than 30 progressive countries’ representatives from these 100 countries met. this is just to say that we are still working very hard on trying to make the rest of the world move in the direction in which we want them to move on these challenging issues. we are now actively preparing for the warsaw conference, to make sure that it delivers yet another step forwards. but i also have to say that i think the warsaw conference is a very challenging thing. why? because it is not such a sexy conference, where you can say that there will be a huge number of firm decisions taken when we leave warsaw. it is a step towards the paris 2015 conference. that is of course a bit more difficult to explain, but it does not mean that this is not an important cop. it is extremely important that we agree the necessary steps towards the 2015 agreement and can decide on a timeline – exactly who has to do what and where in order for the world to get the paris agreement that we want. how can we have tangible progress in the discussions on enhancing pre-2020 ambitions – and what about implementation of past decisions, including on adaptation and climate financing? these are among the key items on the warsaw agenda. as regards the 2015 agreement, time is short. we only have two more years ahead of us in which to complete the work and agree on a robust, ambitious and legally-binding agreement, with all on board, in paris in 2015, as was mandated back in 2011 in durban. i have already heard, at international conferences, some big parties saying we cannot necessarily be ready for paris 2015. we heard that at a conference back in july. europe very much went against that point of view. 2015 is four years after durban; it is six years after copenhagen, and nobody should be able to say that they cannot be ready for paris. we must be ready, and therefore it is very important to agree, in warsaw, on the process of how to get there. but i also have to say that it is not enough to conclude an agreement; we also need to agree on numbers. it cannot just be an empty agreement, where we have a perfect architecture and legal form and so on; it must also involve numbers. it is the level of ambition and action that really counts. this means that all parties need to swiftly start doing their homework and urgently prepare the proposals to be tabled. we suggest that should happen as early as next year. the same clear signal also emanates from the council conclusions adopted last week. our approach – asking for early proposals for commitments, together with transparent information and an assessment of the ambition level and equity pre-2015 – is clearly gaining ground with our partners. i just mentioned what was said in july, but in new york during the un opening week in september, many more countries moved more into the european way of thinking, saying, ‘yes, we know we have to do our homework, we have to get our numbers ready’, and i think mr ban ki-moon has also been very clear that that is what he hopes parties will have ready when they attend the leaders’ summit next year. what is also a key ask for europe is that this has to be an agreement for all. we understand that the top-down approach alone did not produce enough buy-in from parties, but it is also clear that the bottom-up approach alone will not give enough ambition. that is also why we have said that when we have all the pledges there, we need some kind of assessment phase to see whether all these combined efforts will actually make it likely that the world will stay below the two degrees that world leaders pledged in copenhagen in 2009. that is why 2014, in our strategy, must be the year of ambition, and this is also why we in the commission presented the green paper on the 2030 target, which mr schlyter referred to. that is why president barroso said in his state of the union speech that before the end of this year – it might be early january, but within the next three months – we will present what we think should be the targets for 2030, and the heads of state should come back to this discussion in march so that europe will be ready. there is not much time left, so i will just say that we think pre-2020 is important. i agree that the phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies is just one example, and hfcs could be another. how to cooperate more globally on renewables and efficiency would be other examples. there are plenty of things that can be discussed by ministers in warsaw under this pre-2020 headline. finally on climate finance, we should not be mistaken in europe. we can be proud that we delivered on the fast-start finance for 2010 to 2012, but now we are in 2013 and soon it will be 2014. from the commission side we have urged our member states to do their homework here so that we can have a credible pathway towards the financial pledges that were given in copenhagen for 2020. a very last word, on adaptation. we should not be mistaken; this is incredibly important to many of our friends in the developing world and in the most vulnerable countries, so it is very important that we also push for this adaptation agenda, including on loss and damage. that will feature prominently in warsaw, since agreement on an institutional arrangement is expected at this cop. warsaw must dig into the difficult discussions. we must start it and we must leave warsaw with a very clear agreement among all that 2015, the paris agreement, is not just an agreement, but that it is an agreement that is ambitious enough actually to make the world stay below the two degrees.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. today there will be a fierce race for percentages, and i personally will not participate in the 2020 figures because we have already decided on them. i think warsaw is much more about a new phase in general. we have completed kyoto. the kyoto system is dead, and we now have a new process after durban, which we can call paris 2015, and that is the question: what new kind of negotiations and strategies do we have at all? i'm not so sure about that. so far, we've had a world divided into developing and developed countries, with the result that the chinese were the developing countries, and they said, we don't do anything, and we don't need anything. and then the americans came and said, "yeah, if the chinese don't go, we don't go". so this sandbox game, it's finally over, now we have to start developing structures, how we actually discuss the individual points. i would like to know what the next steps are in the field of financing: 100 billion is a lot of money. i'd like to see where the money comes from, but i can't see it yet. i would like to know what criteria are applied to a worldwide system to achieve reduction potentials. are these rigid goals, like we did with ehs, and now actually realizing that these goals hurt us a lot in times of economic weakness, or are these flexible ways? i would like to know how the committees are doing. the question of adaptation is an important one. the question of the technical committees: who is in there, who guarantees that there is a technical transfer, but at the same time the protection of intellectual property is preserved. that's what worries me. the new paris paper must include sanctions. we have seen too often - i have been doing this for over 20 years now - that some countries have tried to do everything, and others have done nothing, even in europe. i cannot be seen in my constituency again unless we have some sort of sanctioning instrument.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in direct response to the question from mrs hibner: of course there are good examples in the eu. the only thing to do is to look at denmark, austria or germany. wherever climate action is really taking place, new industries have emerged, new technologies have emerged, and many jobs have been created. and i know that not every country can do this at the same pace, but the bottom line is clear: we are winning with climate action, and we are not losing. i would like to say the following about the warsaw conference: i've been to several cops. the expectations are obviously getting lower and lower. i've rarely seen anything as small as warsaw. mr seeber, if you, as the coordinator of the largest group here, say that the epp is still committed to climate protection, i wonder why you have to say that. is there any doubt in your group that climate action is important or that we must go further than we have gone with the package? obviously there are doubts here in parliament about whether we should take the next step. this is not good. the commissioner, apart from the question of financing, is also asking us what this rich europe is doing about reducing emissions. we've already reduced co2 by 20 percent. we need a more ambitious target for 2020 too, otherwise we will not survive in paris. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, we must not only be self-critical, we must also be self-confident. europe has everything it needs to take the lead on climate action. we have the research, we have the manufacturing companies, we have good products and services. we just need the framework conditions to make this really work in the market. and there are still deficits. we have not yet used a number of instruments that we need to use to make sure that market forces actually do what we want, which is to make resources and energy more efficient.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, you have just said that the european union wants to use free trade agreements to break down the trade barriers between the eu and the eastern partnership countries. this is also badly needed to bring these countries closer to eu norms and standards. but how does russia react to this? russia is trying to intimidate these countries by means of pressure, blackmail and the launching of a full-scale trade war so that they do not become more closely linked to the eu. that is to say, pressure is being exerted here so that president putin can carry out his ambitious project of a eurasian union - in a sense, a revival of the soviet union. the eastern partnership countries are also being shown what to expect when they join this eurasian union. what can we do about it? that's the question. we have long since exhausted the possibilities of protesting against these measures by russia within the wto and of expressing our opposition to them. in contrast, what is happening now with lithuania, which is, after all, a member state of the eu. on the other hand, we should think more about economic compensatory measures, that is, better market opportunities for products from the eastern partners, early reduction of customs duties and tariffs and the like, including financial support for reforms. we have the modernization partnerships that have proven themselves. but political action is also important, such as speeding up the visa-free regime, so that people can get a sense of what to expect in the eu. and of course we need to improve our communication and make clear what the benefits are of working with the eu and what you can expect if you give in to russian pressure. we could do a number of things here to guard against this most audacious of russian actions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. we are addressing a number of very specific and practical questions to the commission today. i think that's very right. the real political background to this debate, however, is the strained relationship between the european union and russia. both are struggling for influence over the states and economies on their periphery. my group expressly recognizes the right of sovereign states to choose their own trading partners and to negotiate agreements. we are critical of the commission's reluctance to implement the council's desire for greater influence without considering the economic consequences for the people of the countries ultimately affected by this conflict. we are forcing these countries to choose between the west and russia by declaring trade agreements with the eu and the russian approach to the customs union incompatible with the commission. so does putin's russia. this denies these economies the opportunity to benefit from a role as intermediaries between economic areas. up to 80% - we're talking facts here - of ukrainian companies today depend on trade with russia. russia is georgia's most important trading partner, and armenia's as well. moldova will not be able to replace the loss of wine exports to russia in the medium term. the immediate application of the eu agreements would slam the door in the face of russia. existing production and distribution chains would be cut off without any direct replacement being offered. does the commission have any assistance to offer to workers made redundant in ukraine or georgia? we have already discussed this once a year and a half ago, and to date we have no concrete facts on the table. there is not even a draft law on safeguard clauses that could protect the eu and partners from market flooding. in my view, this makes the planned provisional application of the ukraine agreement formally impossible. we must finally establish a coherence between foreign policy, neighbourhood policy and trade policy. let us finally bring our relations with russia to a state of peaceful cooperation that benefits everyone. this is the key to the development of trade and economic relations between all 50 countries in our common region.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i too support the approach we and the european union are taking to sign this trade agreement with ukraine, because i firmly believe that bilateral cooperation and relations between the eu and ukraine have always been, for example in the past, pioneering. but i would also like to briefly refer to russia's role and weight in this debate. it has been mentioned repeatedly that russia, of course, tries to defend its own interests wherever possible. we know that belarus, georgia and ukraine are located on this transit route of the energy pipelines, and it is therefore perfectly legitimate for russia to try to represent its interests here. but i would like to touch on another point which has not been raised today. commissioner, in 2007 there was a black sea synergy initiative involving russia and also turkey. finally, is there any consideration on the part of the european commission that this approach can also be taken, because it would ultimately have positive effects, because trust has been created in the course of this initiative. is there an initiative on this from the european commission?
that concludes this point.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs edite estrela on sexual and reproductive health and rights (2013/2040 (ini)) (a7-0306/2013).
i would like to thank mrs lunacek. in english, "i ask" is simply "i ask you", not "i ask you". secondly, i may not necessarily want to hear the question here in the house, and i may not want to hear the answer.
i am not going to go into detail. i'm all for lively debate, but question is question and answer is answer, and 30 seconds is 30 seconds. we've scheduled five minutes for the catch-the-eye procedure. we have three times as many requests, i've allowed more than 50 percent. i now give the floor to mr cashman, who may not be interested in the question raised by mrs lunacek.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank mrs estrela for her report before us today, which raises a number of key issues concerning women’s rights and sexual and reproductive health. the report takes an integrated approach and makes clear that this topic is of both domestic and international concern. the commission fully agrees with the objectives of eliminating all forms of inequality and discrimination, including those based on gender and sexual orientation, and of promoting equality between men and women. the commission also fully agrees that each and every individual has the right to access high quality health care. discrimination in health takes many forms and is linked to decisions taken at every level of society. despite many efforts, major problems remain in europe, calling for continuing efforts to fight discrimination wherever it exists. four weeks ago, the commission published a report on health inequalities in the eu. some trends are encouraging. for example, infant mortality has declined across the eu. but there remain major differences across the eu. maternal mortality, for example, is very low overall in the eu. but levels differ substantially between countries and are significantly higher for vulnerable groups. globally, maternal mortality has dropped by half over the last two decades, but the target is for a reduction by three-quarters. on the issue of abortion, i have to reiterate the commission’s position that it does not promote abortion as a method of family planning. nor does the commission promote the legalisation of abortion, as the legal provision of abortion is the sovereign decision of each eu member state and of each partner country benefiting from the eu’s development cooperation. addressing gender inequality and women’s needs and rights, including combating gender-based violence, is crucial to making progress on the health-related millennium development goals. the commission welcomes parliament’s call on the member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. health must be for all. everybody should have access to good quality health care regardless of gender, age, race, sexual orientation, disease, social status, education or country of residence. accurate and comprehensive information and knowledge are essential to ensure that policies and interventions are effective. the health programme will place strong emphasis on improving health knowledge. in relation to hiv, equal treatment and solidarity are key features of open societies. any form of hiv-related discrimination and stigmatisation is unacceptable. finally, the commission takes note of the wide range of recommendations to the member states as regards sexual and reproductive rights and education in the areas of exclusive national competence. let me assure you that all the commission services involved will follow up your recommendations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr charles tannock on the situation of human rights in the sahel (2013/2020) (ini)) (a7-0325/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you, on behalf of vice-president ashton, for this opportunity to present the eu approach to the crisis and human rights situation in the sahel region. firstly, let me pay tribute to mr tannock, the rapporteur of this very comprehensive and clear report, as well as to all the meps and committees involved in the drafting process. as is well documented in this report, the sahel remains one of the poorest regions of the world and is particularly vulnerable to most of the problems – including corruption – that hamper state authority. people living there have become increasingly vulnerable to radicalisation and violent extremism. that threat extends to the eu itself. we are within a short distance of terrorist groups based in northern mali and are directly impacted by the situation there. we cannot be indifferent. this report confirms the worrying human rights situation in the region. weak governance and its impact on state institutions have dramatically diminished the capacity of the countries to effectively deliver basic services, promote broad-based political participation and protect human rights. it is clear that a renewed commitment to and effective implementation of the democratic governance and human rights standards subscribed to by the sahel countries have the potential to strengthen the rule of law and advance human rights protection. such a development would help to address the root causes of the crisis and contribute to ensuring sustainable peace in mali, while preventing escalation in the neighbouring countries. only a comprehensive approach that truly makes full use of all the means at the eu’s disposal — ranging from crisis management to institution-building and development assistance — will help build a more stable and prosperous future for this region. the external action service and the commission are currently preparing a new set of actions which will form part of the eu sahel strategy in 2013-2014. i was particularly pleased to note that the eu’s key role in the sahel region is rightly recognised in your report and that you reiterate your support for the lines of action in the eu strategy. this strategy is built on the assumption that security is a prerequisite for socioeconomic growth. state building, coupled with good governance and regional coordination, is necessary to achieve this. the strategy has proved a very useful tool for shaping a common eu position on the sahel crisis and enhancing the level of our engagement in mali, mauritania and niger. under the 10th edf alone, approximately eur 1.5 billion were dedicated to development projects there, with a specific focus on security and the rule of law. three important missions were launched in the wider region: eucap sahel niger, eutm mali and eubam libya. these three missions all undertake specific training on human rights and gender issues. today, our strategy continues to be the right framework for eu action at both individual and collective levels, and it will be important to extend its scope to sahel countries neighbouring mali, mauritania and niger. we take note of your concern that our policies and action could do more to mainstream human rights, women’s and girls’ rights and the rights of minorities. as you are aware, vice-president ashton is personally committed to promoting these rights. in april this year, she organised a high-level meeting in brussels to consult with women from the region and ensure that their voices were heard in the run up to key policy events such as the heads of states conference for the development of mali in may. as is rightly pointed out in the report, we also remain concerned about the implications of the western sahara conflict for security and cooperation in the region. we reaffirm our full support to the un secretary-general’s efforts to achieve a just, lasting and mutually-acceptable political solution which will provide for the self-determination of the people of western sahara. this would certainly contribute to stability and security in the region. finally, we encourage the parties to continue in their respective efforts to enhance the promotion and protection of human rights in western sahara and the tindouf camps. i can assure you that all the legitimate concerns raised in your report will be duly taken into consideration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the briefing by mrs corina creţu on the report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development (2012/2288 (ini)) (a7-0296/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs creţu for the report presented today, as it largely endorses the political vision that the commission put forward in its two communications – one being ‘the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe’s engagement with civil society in external relations’, which was adopted in september 2012, and the second being ‘empowering local authorities in partner countries for enhanced governance and more effective development outcomes’, adopted in may 2013. the commission is committed to promoting a more ambitious partnership with civil society organisations and local authorities. it is with this ambition in mind that roadmaps of engagement with civil society organisations at country level have been proposed. mrs creţu’s report shows appreciation for this. i also welcome the appreciation of this house for the establishment of the policy forum on development, which in the future should become the regular space for exchange between civil society, local authorities and eu institutions. the promotion of an enabling and conducive environment for both actors is our major policy priority. the report calls on the eu to mainstream it in all instruments. it is our intention to reflect this in the programming of future instruments and in the broader ongoing policy negotiations. with respect to local authorities, the council endorsed our communication in july. an action plan is now being developed to define a coherent set of actions. support to local authorities will be founded on the pillars of good governance and a territorial approach to development. i am glad to see that the report highlights the territorial approach as a key tool for development. the report expresses concern about the proposal to limit financial support for direct service delivery only to civil society organisations working in least developed countries and fragile states. while we agree on the necessity to continue supporting social service delivery in the least-developed countries, low-income countries and fragile states, we put emphasis on the role and capacity of the state in middle-income countries to mobilise domestic resources for such purposes. finally, i welcome the acknowledgement of the staff working document on development education and awareness raising (dear) in europe, taking note of the need to develop an overarching european dear strategy. i also take note of your call for an increase in the financial resources allocated to dear, which of course depend on ongoing negotiations. the commission will seek to integrate the proposals and recommendations as far as possible and will regularly report to parliament and the other eu institutions. once again, thank you for your active contribution to the debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms katarína neveďalová on 'new approaches to education' (2013/2041 (ini)) (a7-0314/2013).
i am very sorry, but we have more than twice as many oral questions as we have time. i've been balancing the two, but i need to finish the catch-the-eye procedure. i was particularly unable to give the floor to those who had already been caught in the eye or otherwise on the list of speakers. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes parliament’s support in recognising the importance of equipping young people with the skills and knowledge they need for the 21st century through an education and training system that delivers learning that is relevant to the labour market. we share a common conviction: the fundamental importance of education and training to the future of europe, which we see playing a vital role in the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and in europe’s recovery. ‘rethinking education’ proposes reforms to deliver the right skills for employment, to promote more flexible, accessible and open learning, and to explore new approaches to funding and partnerships. it identifies a limited number of strategic priorities to be addressed by the member states in order to modernise education and training, alongside new eu actions to leverage national efforts. rethinking education is intended to help member states to make informed and evidence-based policies, focusing on efficiency and targeting actions where impact is higher. we note with appreciation that the report prepared by ms neveďalová addresses the main challenges identified in the commission communication, expressing strong support for the themes of combating youth unemployment, prioritising investment, the importance of basic and transversal skills, flexible learning pathways – including digital learning and work-based learning – and a positive focus on teachers. many of the eu-level actions outlined in rethinking education are already moving forward, such as the ‘european alliance for apprenticeships’; the recent communication on opening up education through new technologies; and the planned public consultation on the european area for skills and qualifications. it is important to stress that the new generation of eu funding for 2014-2020 will provide significant opportunities for education and training systems to address the priorities identified in rethinking education. the erasmus+ programme, in particular, will deliver increased funding for the areas of education, training, youth and sport, with a very strong link to the communication through its emphasis on supporting partnerships, the development of transversal skills and open educational resources. it is crucial that education and training systems across the eu continue to make the most of all the opportunities available at eu level, such as the european structural investment funds and erasmus+, to modernise education and training systems and to support the social and economic well-being of learners.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m.
i am not going to go into detail. i beg your indulgence. the catch the eye procedure is designed to allow colleagues to speak spontaneously and we make sure that there are colleagues who participate in several debates, that it is as balanced as possible between the nationalities, the political groups, but also between the individual colleagues. there are also a number of other speakers, including mr kelly, who is also a very hardworking colleague who is always there, and i have not been able to speak to him. i beg your understanding. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms monica luisa macovei on the management of the european union's pre-accession assistance in the fields of justice and the fight against corruption in the candidate and potential candidate countries (2011/2033 (ini)) (a7-0318/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission thanks parliament and, in particular, mrs macovei for the report on budgetary management of european union pre-accession funds in the areas of judicial systems and the fight against corruption in the candidate and potential candidate countries. the commission is grateful for the attention paid to financial assistance in the area of the rule of law in the enlargement countries and agrees with the importance attached to these areas. this report sheds additional light on these key priorities in the accession process. the commission would like to underline the very good cooperation with the rapporteur and the high quality of the report, which was adopted unanimously in the committee on budgetary control. as the report mentions, the launch of the ‘new approach’, endorsed by the council, sets a new negotiation framework for enlargement countries, focused on the rule of law, with the early opening of chapter 23 on judiciary and fundamental rights and chapter 24 on justice, freedom and security. these chapters are now among the first to be opened and the last to be closed, once a solid track record of reform implementation has been achieved. this approach is now being applied with montenegro and will serve as guidance for future programming in the time frame 2014 to 2020. the report also reflects the fact that reform in these areas has a real impact when there is genuine political will and implementation. our support is therefore not only limited to pre-accession assistance, but is also addressed by our policies and country-specific approaches, such as structured political dialogues on the rule of law. in addition, our commitment is channelled through the eulex rule of law mission in kosovo. as regards implementation, training is a core component of eu pre-accession assistance, and approximately one third of taiex (the technical assistance and information exchange instrument) covers these areas. let me conclude by repeating that the commission has put the rule of law at the centre of its enlargement policy. in the last few years, we have witnessed considerable progress in these areas in many of the accession countries, while acknowledging that it remains an area where continuous attention is needed. in this regard, the commission’s proposal for the new ipa ii regulation takes into account many of the lessons learnt in the course of implementing the ipa i regulation, notably in the areas addressed by the report, with the implementation of the sector approach, including consistent monitoring and reporting. moreover, the proposal for ipa ii foresees a long-term, strategic perspective which prioritises the rule of law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to recommend to parliament, on behalf of the committee on employment, that this urgency be rejected. the employment committee also feels that it should be able to decide within a normal timeframe and without any difficulty whether this exception exists. we do not have that time until november, because it is only a few weeks and our deadlines are not being met. the committee on employment does not want to say how it will come to a final conclusion, but it makes it clear, as the other committees have done, that we have very big questions about the legal basis and that we must first know the opinion of the legal affairs committee before we vote on it. i therefore recommend that you reject this urgency on behalf of the employment committee.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are we talking about today when we talk about medical devices? we're talking about products that are supposed to keep patients safe, that are supposed to help them with illness and suffering, and that are supposed to help doctors so that they can be sure that they only have the best products if they want to help their patients. and we are talking about the competitiveness of european industry. we are not going to create that kind of a spat with this legislation. how's it been so far? so far, what doctors are saying is, if it's possible that hundreds of hip joints, for example, were defective and needed to be re-surfaced at great expense to the health care system, but also at great suffering to the patients, then something must be wrong. and that's why we need a new system for medical devices. the old is now so antiquated that it no longer meets our conditions of today. we need a better system. what do we need in a better system? we need the best possible bodies to certify these products. these places must have the best scientific support. is this a reason for european industry to react almost panically or hysterically? i'm convinced not. i am convinced that if it is true that european industry is innovative and produces good products, then european industry must not be afraid to go to the best-trained places in the member states and undergo a process that takes four months. four months is nothing compared to the development time of a product or the lifetime of a product. we're talking years each. if that is so, if we can achieve greater safety with this legislation, with good notifiers, with good training, with good scientific support, why is there such hysteria? i can't answer that. commissioner, perhaps you can answer it. i sometimes wish that the commission would use the word 'patient safety' as often as it uses the word 'competitiveness', but, commissioner, you can certainly learn from this, and the european commission can learn from it too. i believe that we have succeeded today in taking the environment committee's proposal a step further. it is not perfect: european doctors say we should have had central authorization for high-risk products, i have not succeeded, but with what is on the table today, we are probably still making a big step, perhaps not a milestone, but a big step towards greater patient safety. and what does that involve besides marketing? this includes ensuring that medical devices have a high level of safety when they are reprocessed, i.e. when they are cleaned and used on another patient. is that what you're doing today? no, you didn't. we have no uniform standards within the european union, everyone within the european union can do more or less what they want with different conditions, with different criteria. we have no idea how many of the infections that we see in hospitals or other settings are due to inadequately recycled products. so we say: products that are either labeled as disposable, that are designed to never be cleaned again, should never be cleaned again, or someone has to perform a miracle, or the manufacturer has not told the truth. these are the only two possibilities, and for products to be reprocessed, it must be ensured that the best quality is produced throughout the european union, not just in one, two or three countries in the eu, and that the person who reprocesses is also prepared to take responsibility for it. i am convinced that we are doing something with the legislation that we should have done years ago, and i hope that the members have enough respect for patient safety and for the belief of the doctors that they will follow the decision of the large majority of the committee this afternoon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, there are problems in the medical device sector. the same applies to diagnostic products. for example, the competent authority in germany, the paul-ehrlich-institut, found that for years, an hiv test with ce marking had been on the market that had significantly more false-negative results than other tests. that is, the test said "no virus", but in reality the patient was already infected with hiv, with all the associated consequences, such as blood transfusion or sexual contact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the community's citizens is not compromised. i am glad that there is consensus on many points. for example, that we need unannounced inspections. if we had had this a few years ago, the pip scandal would have been discovered much earlier and thousands of women would have been spared suffering. we as the epp support the strengthening of the notified bodies and also the introduction of special notified bodies for special high-risk products. but we have opposed state prior authorization from the outset, and we have also opposed central authorization by the ema. a prior authorisation does not necessarily increase safety. we see this with drugs that are regulated by the system, and yet the list of scandals is long. i name vioxx, i name mediator, i name the new form of birth control pill. and we would have also seen practical problems and problems in the innovation that we urgently need for patients. that's why it's good that the original proposal is off the table. i am equally strongly opposed to those, for example from industry, who say that we do not need an additional safety net at all and that in individual cases it should not be looked at by a european group of experts. i think we have reached a good compromise which we can improve further by means of amendments from the epp and other groups this afternoon. i would point out that we want to abolish the 23 subgroups that the committee has decided on, for example, in order to make the system a little more transparent. in the field of diagnostics, we also have a well-established system of common technical standards, the cts, and we have reference laboratories which also play an important role in the verification of high-risk products. overall, we can really say that we're taking a big step towards more patient safety without stifling innovation in the industry. i would like to draw attention to one particular aspect which the committee has decided to take up in connection with the diagnosis of dna tests. dna testing can have a tremendous impact on the lives of patients. there are diseases that are not treatable, that you can diagnose at a very early stage, where there are no symptoms for a long time, like huntington's chorea. it's a disease of the central nervous system. it is a disease that affects people aged 50 and over, sometimes earlier, sometimes later, and it is associated with severe symptoms and, inevitably, death. there is no therapy. you can tell that to a young person at about 18 years of age by the genetic information. here it is important to consider the consequences beforehand. there's no treatment, it can lead to major psychological problems, it can lead to problems with employers and insurance. that's why the committee decided that these tests should not be offered on the marketplace or on the internet by anyone, but after expert advice in a medical setting. there are different traditions in the member states as to whether it must always be a doctor. that is why we are again proposing to the plenary that other people with expertise can do this. but it has to be done in a medical setting. i am grateful that the committee has adopted this principle of informed consent by a large majority. that is a principle of the charter of fundamental rights. finally, i would like to thank all those who have helped to bring both reports to this present state of affairs: mrs roth-behrendt, the rapporteur for medical devices, the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, the secretariat and the commission. i would also like to thank the council of ministers as soon as possible. i'm afraid the bank is empty. the council of ministers must get to work! fourteen months after the commission has tabled its proposal, there is still no position on a single article. but we need a decision quickly, planning certainty for the economy and above all more safety for the patients. we must work with the council to ensure that these two dossiers are completed before the european elections!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. patients in europe rightly expect that when they need medical devices, they also need them to be safe. when you go to a hospital -- and i'm facing this myself now -- you trust the doctor and expect what happens there to be well-controlled and to meet high safety standards. we must also be very careful in the debate we are having here about a system for regulating the authorization of such products to ensure that what we are doing remains practical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a variety of committees and commissions with unclear powers. at the end of the day, we're probably extending the procedures for approving medical devices without actually affecting the safety of the products. i would also point out that the unfortunate incidents with medical devices that we have in europe are only a very small percentage of product quality problems that are actually attributable to the manufacturers. these are the most difficult cases. most of the incidents happen in the implementation, unfortunately in the hospital, often in the application. it is not good for us to have a debate here that focuses on the black sheep and those who are on the move with criminal energy. these are the few market players who are most interested in bringing good products to the market and in competing. we are therefore on the right track if we decide today not to change the system but to say that we are strengthening the special notified bodies which approve risk iii products. we need to invest more in market surveillance to avoid the breast implant scenario, and also to recognise that it is not very efficient to simply ban the recycling of single-use products. i do not think that is practical either, because health systems are unfortunately under cost pressure. and that's where a ban might not be a practical solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm sitting here because i haven't made up my mind about getting a new joint. perhaps that's an irony of fate in this matter. we are seeing very clearly the trade-off between industry and patients' rights, which is not easy for us and which has been very clearly demonstrated here again. this is typical of health policy, the truth usually lies somewhere in between. we should not allow ourselves to be divided, since we are all primarily responsible for patient safety. that is our ultimate objective in this matter. what do we need? quick, simple solutions, but not negligent ones, scientifically sound, not too complicated, sustainable and traceable. all these questions are extremely important. we can live with the compromise now. we'll have to do a review after a few years to see how things have worked out. i would remind you once again that scandals are not suitable for making policy, but we must stick to the majority of ordinary patients and industrial enterprises.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have listened with great interest to today’s lively and thorough debate, which has confirmed the convergent path of the commission’s and parliament’s views, proposals and positions on these two important files. i would like to thank once again the rapporteurs, mrs roth-behrendt and mr liese, not least for their drive and determination in the handling of these files over the past year. it is clear that compromise will be required on all sides in order to reach agreement on the two proposals within the term of the current legislature. i am convinced, however, that it is possible to find solutions to all the issues that need to be resolved. i reiterate my personal commitment towards bringing these important proposals to a successful conclusion. your strong mandate, which i have every reason to expect and welcome, would be a major contribution to paving the way to finally setting up these proposals. we shall all have to work on some pending issues in order to ensure a safe and efficient system for the pre-market assessment of medical devices. i noted with appreciation that there is openness on both sides – i reiterate the commission’s openness – towards dealing further with reprocessing provisions, as well as with the scope, leading to a binding outcome and management of the scrutiny procedure. we all have to work on what is not an easy balance between patient safety and the industry’s need – especially that of smes – to keep the existing innovative and competitive edge of european manufacturers. this balance would be easier to strike if our point of departure and arrival were to remain one of no compromise on patient safety. i am even thinking ahead to future procedures, once we can be sure that the proposed regulation works and that the notification body – particularly the special notification body – fully meets the regulation’s requirements. at that point in the review process we could think about shifting the focus of the scrutiny from pre-market, product-based scrutiny to post-market, procedure-based scrutiny in terms of clinical and vigilance data that would actually enable and facilitate the work of the special notification body. so there is work to be done, even after we all agree on the new set-up of this regulation. i remain confident that we can succeed in concluding these files by spring 2014 and without undue delay. it is an ambitious but achievable goal if it is supported from all sides. therefore, i very much appreciate that the lithuanian presidency is equally committed to starting interinstitutional negotiations by the end of this year. we have a duty to patients and consumers to deliver under the current legislature. i have every confidence that we can succeed in this endeavour.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i have followed this debate today and almost all my colleagues have spoken out for greater patient safety and for the need to improve the system. so i hope that everyone will vote for the compromise from the health committee and against the other amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if i listen to those who say that industry must be competitive, then the question is not whether we want it or not. of course we want a competitive industry. but of course we don't want products that are harmful. and when i hear that the approval process cannot be complicated, i ask you all seriously, are 130 days too long for an innovative product? for a product that's been years in the making and years on the market? and then if someone says, "yes, but who knows if it will stay that way", then i can only say that if it is prescribed by law, it applies just as it was prescribed for medicines until now. i would also ask you to consider that we are also deciding on matters such as reprocessing at the vote this afternoon. we have heard different opinions here. some colleagues say it should not be reprocessed at all. i respect that. reprocessing can be dangerous if the standards are not high. other colleagues say that it is far from realistic to prohibit the recycling of single-use products. then i wonder, if that's so far from reality, why is it labeled single use? it is far from the truth to allow a label which is obviously not true. we don't allow that anywhere else. if something is marked as single use, it is single use: it is used once, otherwise it cannot be marked as such. with any bar of chocolate, you'd be outraged if it said something different. we cannot allow that to happen. i support the commissioner in pushing the presidency forward. the presidency is certainly charming, and now it is represented here, after the budget is discussed. the money is certainly more exciting than medical devices, which didn't seem to be as exciting for the presidency that has now arrived. but i can only say that if you do not manage to encourage the member states in the working group, we will still be sitting here in five years' time without legislation. that is the task of a presidency, that is the task of a working group, and i hope that the minister responsible will do his utmost to bring a little speed to the matter, and that he will also have the courage to start trilogues with parliament without having a final mandate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the members for their support in all its forms. we agree on the main points. i would like to make two further points. some speakers have mentioned the wording of the genetic counselling for informed consent and said that we would be hindering certain medical practices in the member states. we have worked very carefully and debated this formulation for a long time. she's really fit for the job. we have taken into account what rebecca taylor said about the possibility of targeted treatment for cancer, for example. of course i did! the report contains many formulations to ensure that these so-called companion diagnostics are brought to market and that they are safe. there's no genetic counseling required here either. we've been very careful about that. i thank the commissioner for his support, particularly for his positive words on the proposal to the ethics committee. we have not had a very intensive debate on this, but parliament, when we decide this at noon, will be very clear that we need the approval of an ethics committee if clinical trials are to be carried out in this area. and if you read the text very carefully, the wilmott report on clinical trials actually says the same thing, you just have to interpret it a little bit, it's clearly on the table with us. that is why you know where parliament stands on this issue.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat is a very good one. we have also been able to adopt a very responsible position on the european parliament's budget by a large majority in the committee on budgets. the original proposal was for a 3.58 per cent increase. we then reduced it to 3.29% in the estimates and then waited for the negotiations on the staff regulations, so that after the corresponding changes it actually increased to 2.31%, a significant reduction. we had agreed as the committee on budgets and as colleagues that our target was 1.9%. after negotiations with the bureau, we have now reached a very moderate increase of 1.9%. the remarkable thing about the 1.9% is that we have an end-of-term cost of 2.2% alone. so this budget has no increase at all, but is a negative budget. we have also integrated the costs of croatia's integration and we have also taken a risk-based approach. i am addressing the council specifically here. i think it is extremely problematic not to take any precaution with regard to the possible outstanding judgments of the european court of justice as regards the salary adjustments of officials. i have to say that i think it is very problematic that, when we are expecting a judgment at the end of the year, we should not even partially assume that there could potentially be a positive judgment. if there is no such provision, the money can be returned at any time. then it's not a problem. but to not take any precautions is, i think, quite negligent. i see this in the overall context of the budgetary negotiations. i was very surprised that by friday i thought we had a solid budget, that we were able to pay. i think that the fact that i was of a different opinion on friday afternoon, that we should suddenly be insolvent, is a problematic and difficult process, which is unacceptable in relation to the commission's budget and the general budget negotiations. i would like to say the same to the other institutions with regard to salary adjustments. in the european external action service we have a particular challenge, which concerns eur 6 million for additional security, and then a specific question concerning the european special representatives, which would actually be in the budget of the eeas instead of in specific plan iii. we also want to work more closely with the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. in particular, it has always been difficult to strengthen the core political functions of the committee of the regions. this cooperation is intended to make this possible and thus also to improve the core political function of the two committees. the european court of justice has a particular problem. in my recent consultations with the ecj, i have found that the minimum duration of proceedings is two years, and in some cases more. this is an extreme risk to the budget, because we have procedures in some cases where there must be security deposits from companies, and if the procedures take more than two years, this can lead to considerable costs. we shall have to discuss the personnel matters here most urgently.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the committee on budgetary control, as if in a spending pipeline, is doing the work that the committee on budgets has started, by clarifying, a year and a half later, the legal basis for the use of the money in this budget. we are faced with sometimes alarmingly high rates of error in the spending of european money by the member states, because 80% of the european budget is spent and managed by the member states. in 2011, the commission corrected no less than eur 4,5 billion. financial corrections in this context also mean recoveries, i.e. money that is recovered from the member states and returned to the european budget. the committee on budgetary control proposes that this money should remain in the budget in future and not be paid back to the member states at the end of the year. this could help to offset some of the budget cuts we are seeing and at the same time hold those who are not handling the money properly to account.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to say something. the commissioner, the minister! our contribution to the european budget as the econ committee is limited, but it nevertheless concerns a crucial area, namely whether or not the reforms in the financial markets area are actually being implemented in earnest. that's the bulk of the budget, the allocation to the agencies. it's not consistent. we in the committee agree that we, the council and parliament, on the one hand, adopt new delegated acts on the basis of proposals from the commission, but at the same time we do not give the agencies the means to actually implement them. this is even more true in the area of consumer protection in financial markets, where we have also made far-reaching proposals but where there is a lack of implementation. the cuts are therefore not appropriate. we have, however, made other proposals for cuts to compensate for this, and it would be good if both the commission and the council would take up these proposals and not massacre the very important financial supervision now.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee is deeply concerned that the resources proposed by the commission for the 2014 budget in the area of environment, climate and health are not enough to meet the real challenges ahead. the council's subsequent cuts are totally unquestionable! the committee on the environment has therefore proposed that we should at all events return to the commission's draft budget and even go beyond it in some budget lines. i am very glad that the committee on budgets has been able to accept this approach. we will therefore continue to try to do the best we can with the few resources at our disposal. that is why we have proposed that incentives should be created for good action in the regions. it's not the money that counts, it's the honor. regions that adopt a climate-friendly approach to transport, the environment, energy and waste should be considered for an award. i would therefore ask the commission once again to submit a proposal for such a price as soon as possible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. mr president, we have heard your usual empty rhetoric. of course you share parliament's priorities, and in practice you do the opposite! in march last year the council decided that the level of r & d should not be lower than this year. in fact, the opposite is true. in these areas, a billion will be cut in 2014! the programme for small and mediumsized enterprises, cosme, will be cut by 20%! horizon 2020 will be cut by 16% compared to the current research framework programme! although everyone knows that these initiatives are particularly important for employment, for research, for competitiveness, for a way out of the crisis, it is precisely here that the commissioner for the budget is being allowed to intervene. the council is not keeping its promises, and the council is not keeping its priorities! this is not a savings budget, this is a self-mutilation budget! the cynical reaction of the citizens of europe when you make such propaganda, when you use such rhetoric and do not follow it, is understandable.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. i think they have put forward a report which gives what is possible from the point of view of parliament. the budget presented by the commission and the council is, however, a poor one. we all know that unemployment, especially youth unemployment and poverty in the crisis countries, but also in some eastern european countries outside the euro area, have increased dramatically in recent years, and that we need a budget capable of stabilising the economy in these countries and stimulating job creation, especially for young people. we all know that. the council and the commission know this too. the budget has nevertheless been cut by 6%. commissioner lewandowski told the committee on budgets last week and confirmed that a large part of the funds that will be available for 2014 will be used to finance the old programmes from the current mff. the commissioner said that 50% would be needed. then we not only have a nominal 6% cut, but it's almost half of what's available for the new programs compared to what was available in 2013. that is definitely not enough, and this household will become nothing but a potemkin village. the budget cannot convince and inspire the citizens of the eu. the citizens are being pushed into the hands of the right-wing parties and the euro-critics. i think that is something that the people who have tabled this budget must remember.
member of the commission. − mr president, managing budgets – both at national and european level – is nowadays becoming the management of shortages. why is it even more dramatic at european level these days? it is because we have cuts of six per cent for next year. not a single national budget is being reduced by six per cent in real terms, and this is at a time when projects are maturing. therefore, people in the capitals of europe are waiting for compensation for eligible projects, including leading research and development beneficiaries in the uk. they are also waiting for compensation. we have real tools in our investment margins to promote growth and to deal with youth unemployment. we also have a backlog from the previous year, from the ongoing financial perspective. this really is a dramatic management of shortages. for these reasons, we need more than ever the goodwill and skill shown by ms jensen and ms hohlmeier in order to shape a rational budget for 2014, which would be a budget for more europe and more competences with less money. this is the answer to mr claeys, who asked for savings. yes, this is about dramatic savings at a time when we need more europe for eurozone reconstruction as well. the answer to mr karim, who asked for deregulation, is that this has been started. we now have all the regulations in the pipeline, but we do not see this as being necessary for next year. we have started considering how to deregulate what might be unnecessary burdens, especially for small and medium-sized companies, for the next year.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i noted with interest the various points raised during this debate and will inform my colleagues at the council accordingly. this debate has certainly helped to clarify our respective positions. let me assure you that the council will do its utmost to reach an agreement on the 2014 budget within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. i would like to draw your special attention to the budget of the current year. first of all, i am glad to inform you that the council has reached an agreement on all outstanding draft amending budgets relating to 2013. draft amending budget no 7 has already been legally adopted by the council on 7 october and yesterday, at the request of the commission, the council advanced the formal adoption of draft amending budget no 6 through a written procedure. the council will formally adopt its position on the other amending budgets on 30 october at the latest. with that, the council has made all possible efforts to leave only issues related to 2014 pending for the upcoming meetings of the conciliation committee, including the eur 3.9 billion to which we committed ourselves by agreeing on draft amending budget no 2 earlier this year. on the basis of these decisions, the council will have approved a total of eur 11.6 billion in additional payment appropriations. this large amount will need to be financed by member states through higher contributions to the union’s budget. as i mentioned, the council endorsed draft amending budget no 6 and the related letter of amendment which will result in a further eur 2.7 billion of national contributions to the union budget. financing all these additional amounts will mean a major effort for the member states, which at the same time face a difficult economic situation and important constraints on their national budgets. by providing these appropriations through the different amending budgets, the council has agreed to make full use of the amount available in 2013 under the ceiling for repayments in the multiannual financial framework. all legal options to provide additional payment appropriations this year have now been exhausted. i would like to stress that draft amending budget no 9 is for us equally as important as draft amending budget no 8. both amending budgets deal with solidarity and burden-sharing among member states, but given the above-mentioned additional financial engagements by member states, we have to make every possible effort to find the necessary funding within the existing ceiling. i hope we also can count on your solidarity and will have a european parliament vote in favour of the remaining draft amending budgets. if we fail to reach that target, the commission would clearly be unable to pay any more bills in 2013, with all the disastrous consequences for ongoing eu finance programmes and projects.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the presidency of the council, the commission and, in particular, my colleagues the co-rapporteurs and mrs anne jensen for the excellent cooperation. i would like to mention a few points, however, where i believe we are in a fundamental difficulty in terms of budgetary matters. firstly, the research and innovation area is particularly affected for the financial years 2013 and 2014. if we want to move forward in the european union and also strengthen the industrial base, then we will have to focus on research and innovation. if we do not, we will be in serious trouble. i would have wished that the european commission, with a budget of 135 billion, had been able to find a slightly larger global transfer. if it had been only 200 million, our task of shifting resources to research and innovation would have been much easier, and the 2014 budget would have been easier to discharge. i also find it critical that we are not at the same time addressing the massive damage to this european budget and to the european union itself caused by organised crime. i think of double-digit vat fraud, cigarette smuggling, drug trafficking, cybercrime, human trafficking, slave labour, child trafficking, organ trafficking - we have so few people available for this that it is actually shameful. until last year, it was not considered necessary to build up frontex, europol and eurojust accordingly, and the figures for easo are also low in relation. but if we do not have enough money, we must also decide which tasks are to be given priority and which tasks are to be given secondary importance. this means that we will not be able to avoid this task if the member states do not have sufficient financial resources at present.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would simply ask the honourable member whether she does not consider agencies in this form to be superfluous. we have a fundamental rights agency in vienna which is doing double work with the council of europe, double work with commissioner reding, double work with the european parliament. would it not be enough to involve the relevant bodies instead of setting up a flood of agencies?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank all my colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs, for the result we have achieved. we will improve patient safety, but in my view, we will not create unnecessary red tape. now we have to negotiate with the council. i appeal to the council to issue a mandate quickly. and we should postpone the final vote now so that we can get a final result before the european elections, to achieve planning security for industry, but above all more security for patients. that is why i ask that the final vote be postponed.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to put an oral amendment in agreement with mrs mcguinness. we have a strict procedure, specific notified bodies for high-risk class iii products. we all think of pacemakers or things that are implanted in the brain. the commission proposal also covers simple surgical instruments, i.e. simple metal devices which are only used for a short time and are not implanted. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i'll read it anyway, just to make it clear. we think it should read:are active devices intended specifically to control, diagnose, monitor or correct a defect of the central nervous system through direct contact with these parts of the body, in which case they are class 3. as i said, it's in writing. the second time it's about number 4.3, and we just want to add the two words "active devices". i would ask for support for these two oral amendments. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we would have been prepared to support this oral amendment if the epp had kept its agreement to vote against amendment no 374 in its second part, and not to limit its scope there. what they are trying to do now is to double down on the scope of the directive, so we are voting against this oral amendment and we are asking you not to accept it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, we have now voted and i ask you, as in the case of in vitro diagnostics, not to vote on the legislative resolution but to give a mandate for negotiations, and i ask you to do so by roll call.
(parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. your welcome has shown that this is an extraordinary day for us. it is an extraordinary moment to welcome you, mrs aung san suu kyi, as the winner of the 1990 sakharov prize, 23 years later, here in the european parliament. this is a great moment, a moment that a whole generation in your country, but also here in europe, has been waiting for! when you were unable to accept the prize we awarded you in 1990, you were in prison and your son was representing you in the european parliament. perhaps we can take a moment to look back at the award ceremony in 1990. (video of the 1990 ceremony is playing.) (applause from the centre) the speech i was supposed to give, dear aung san suu kyi, was given in 1990. i have nothing to add to what the president of the european parliament, mr enrique baron crespo, said at the time, except that 23 years have passed since the award ceremony was due to take place this year. that's 23 years of suffering, that's 23 years of oppression. these are 23 years of moments, as you yourself have often expressed it, where you felt that you were no longer part of the real world, but that you were locked in, disconnected from the development of your country, from the development of the world outside, 23 years in which you had to fight to keep the strength that you have, but in the end you have, which you need if you don't give up one thought: that no matter what happens, the dictatorship will eventually be defeated. you are, as the woman with a flower in her hair, a symbol of one thing: that no matter how long it takes, the people who muster the strength to fight for democracy will prevail in the end. that you are here today is not only a great victory for democracy, it is a great example of a great woman for the persistence, for the freedom of her own people, for her own freedom not to be broken in the fight that you have won. they fought! they suffered! but the most important thing is, you won! and so it is a great honour for me, on behalf of the european parliament, to be able to present to you, after a delay of 23 years, the sakharov prize for 1990. i congratulate you on this with all my heart, and i thank you on behalf of what i believe is the entire free world. you are a great symbol of freedom and democracy! (parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall conclude this ceremony with the european anthem in honour of mrs aung san suu kyi. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) (parliament adopted the resolution)
i have to say, madam president, i just hate to break the second commandment. but the lord works in mysterious ways. before this vote on the estrela report, there are false or at least manipulative voting recommendations. i would ask all colleagues with whom one can respectfully disagree to refrain from such practices. it is not in the interests of the dignity of this house to spread misinformation among members without an author. we know that this is a very controversial report, but i would ask for it also so that the huissier service is not misused for political purposes. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would have voted against the referral back. but each group has the right to put forward a motion and it must be voted on. i think that is not the right way to do it, and we must also deal with minority rights in this house properly. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there is an urgent need for greater control of medical devices following recent scandals, such as the defective breast implants of the french company pip. we need a system that is practical, that ensures greater patient safety and at the same time avoids excessive bureaucracy. i also think it is appropriate that in future unannounced inspections may be carried out on the holdings. this is the only way to avoid the substitution of substandard products for new ones once a medical device has been authorised.
in writing. - following the incidents involving breast implants filled with low-quality industrial silicone, i welcome the recast of the medical devices directive. although this was an isolated case with a criminal background, the objective of a uniform regulation of medical devices throughout europe remains a desirable one. the legislative process had introduced dangerous proposals which would have meant the 'out' for many smes. these proposals are off the table with today's vote. i have nevertheless voted against the draft as it stands today. the original central authorization for medical devices has been abolished. unfortunately, the scope of the authorization procedure and the additional evaluation procedure could not be restricted today as planned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of medicinal products is not compromised by the fact that the scope of the procedure is too broad and the criteria for initiating the procedure are too narrow. while we have succeeded in avoiding the additional costs of this assessment procedure being passed on to the company concerned, this has improved patient protection in the right place, but it has put the innovation capacity of medical device manufacturers at risk. and that doesn't help the patients in the end either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and all those involved in this report. i think there's a whole lot of work involved. for my part, i would like to stress that we have fortunately created an area of free movement, and it is clear that with this area of free movement we cannot guarantee security any more than individual states can do alone. it is all the more regrettable that the member states are not present at such an important debate. it is absolutely essential, and this has been made clear here in the european parliament by this report, that the member states finally deliver. the european union must be able to take action to combat the illegal trade in human beings, and to combat the illegal trade in human beings. but we also need common rules of procedure. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the council in recent years to adopt rules setting common procedural standards. this has been repeatedly rejected and is still being blocked by the member states. i think it's time to stop. the commission must also be involved in this process so that when proposals are made, for example on how to combat crime, we can look directly at the practical cooperation between the police and the judiciary and, for example, make better cooperation between authorities within europol a priority instead of wasting money on large-scale surveillance measures such as a european passenger data system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. but the fact that we also have organized crime, which poses greater challenges, is not because of open borders, but because of better logistics, excellent financial facilities, excellent it equipment, in which the criminals are sometimes even ahead of us in terms of police and judicial authorities. that is why we must not frighten people wrongly, but we must strengthen customs cooperation, police cooperation and judicial cooperation. i have a heartfelt request, madam commissioner: knowing that the smart borders package is not just for statistical purposes, having just been told that we have 88 000 forced labourers and 270 000 victims of sexual exploitation, i would like to make an urgent request: the smart borders package must also be used to enable the law enforcement authorities to free these people from the yoke into which they have been sent by organised crime. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the benefits are actually very clear and very easy to see. first, freedom of movement. secondly, our entire young generation can study and work wherever they want without any restrictions. we can distribute all our products throughout the european union without having customs controls or anything like that, in the sense that it would be an obstacle to a single market. we have a total of three-digit billions of dollars in benefits from the single market alone. we have less of a financial burden on businesses. we have improved the common content standards for food production. i could go on and on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i congratulate all those who have contributed to this result. the crime committee has in many ways been a pilot. we have given new impetus to the public debate and apparently also to the commission. because, mrs malmström, your contribution has shown me that the commission is still taking a very hesitant approach to this. it is not enough to alert the member states. you have to act to make something happen there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the citizens of the member states. i would like to say a few words about corruption: the damage is immense. we have an analysis that the cost of corruption in public procurement in 2010 was between 1.4 and 2 billion in eight member states alone. that's an unprecedented number! there is an urgent need for action. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we must set an example, even for the third world, because otherwise we cannot demand that they work according to the correct standards.
a writer. mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr mulder for his willingness to allow me the time he has not used. that is why i am now standing before the council as a co-author of this question. i would like to expand on the question that jan asked. it concerns - and i mean this with all seriousness - the council's seriousness in the matter of selecting the members of the european court of auditors proposed by the member states. we have had some surprises in the past - and i am not talking specifically about the croatian candidate - at this point. the most surprising thing for me was the statement by a candidate for the court of auditors that, although he had no experience in auditing, he had already been audited. i've flown across the atlantic before, and no one in this room would want me to be a pilot, including myself. i was even more surprised when i received a call from the capital of the member state informing me that this person was part of a national staffing package and that the european parliament could not possibly open up this national staffing package at this time. no, we did not. my group was in the minority at the time. but it shows that the member states do not always take the necessary care in their nominations of candidates for the european court of auditors. my question to the council is this: is there a discussion in your committee about raising awareness of the problem at this point? you want to change the contract? i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will continue to hold these debates until we reach the point where the council's proposal must be approved by the european parliament, as is proper in a democracy, where the freely elected representatives of the people confirm the candidates, as is already the case with the president of the commission. what we like about the president of the european commission should also be acceptable to us when we choose the members of the european court of auditors. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
author, reply to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say something. i cannot comment at this stage on what has been said in the croatian media. i don't know the news, and i'm not a fan of the fine language. i was not talking specifically about the croatian candidate, but about the procedure for selection and appointment. i can say that no one has spoken to me about my speech here today.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you for this opportunity to respond to your questions and to clarify a number of issues relating to appointments to the european court of auditors. these appointments are governed by articles 285 and 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). article 286 states that ‘the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court drawn up in accordance with the proposals made by each member state’. furthermore, article 286 of the tfeu requires that members of the court of auditors be chosen from among those persons who belong or have belonged, in their respective states, to external audit bodies, or who are especially qualified for this office. their independence must be beyond doubt. on 10 april 2013, the government of the republic of croatia notified the council of the name of its candidate to the court, mr neven mates, and transmitted his cv. the parliament was subsequently consulted on mr mates’s candidature, as provided for under the treaty. on 9 july 2013, the council adopted a decision to appoint mr mates as the croatian member of the court of auditors. it did so on the grounds that it was satisfied that he possessed the qualifications required under article 286 of the treaty. it also acted in full awareness of the opinion of the european parliament. i should underline that, in such cases, the council is not obliged to follow the opinion of parliament, nor is it required to take account of any statement made to parliament by a candidate or candidates in connection with their appointment. in all such appointments, the council will continue to fully respect the provisions of the treaty. we are all bound by the legal framework in which we operate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i know charm is a subtle quality, but what you just said here does not bring honor to the council. i know the smart lawyers wrote that for you. we say in germany: a glance at the law makes it easier to find justice. we know the law. the question is how to deal with each other. i am extremely sorry for the epp for the deterioration of relations with both the european court of auditors and the council which this history has brought about. but i would like to inform you that we will do this in future whenever the council appoints someone to whom we have said: 'no, we cannot work with him'. i 'd like to tell you something . there are procedures, for example the procedure under article 255 of the eu treaty for appointing the members of the european court of justice. there has not been a single case to date where the council has rejected the recommendation of this body under article 255, although there is no legal obligation on the part of this body. i would like to say that you are making it clear that you have no respect for an elected parliament and for the representatives of the european taxpayers. i consider that an extremely unfriendly act. i do not know what we have done to deserve this, perhaps you will explain it to us again later. we have seen with regret that the croatian candidate has already shown at his hearing that parliament and cooperation with parliament are not his business. we're all actually pretty good-natured. he's done it now that we all said, actually, it's not really the right candidate for us. i'd like to tell you that. the european parliament is the elected representatives of 500 million europeans, whose tax money finances the eu, and also the european court of auditors and the council. the question remains why the council does not accept the vote of this directly elected representative on this question. we must cooperate with the european court of auditors. we also want to cooperate with the council in a fruitful way. i am sorry to say that you did not contribute to this today.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on the mobility of eu citizens and the social welfare systems of the member states [2013/2894 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing today a fundamental freedom which many people believe is one of the greatest achievements of the eu: the freedom of movement for all europeans. it is a question of defending it. this was also emphasized by commissioner reding at the justice and home affairs council on 8 october. the sometimes very emotional debate on freedom of movement and migration is in fact hard to follow. overall, only about 2.8% of eu citizens live in another member state. the level of social benefits in the destination country plays no demonstrable role. around 80% of mobile eu citizens live in households where at least one family member is employed. they come to work, pay taxes and social security contributions. the ministers of the interior of germany, austria, the netherlands and the united kingdom have repeatedly spoken of so-called poverty migration and immigration into the welfare systems. however, only 1 to 5% of recipients of noncontributory social benefits are mobile eu citizens. there is no mass immigration into welfare systems. what is also overlooked is that we need immigration, and that immigration is often accompanied by a significant number of emigrants. so let us be firm in our opposition to false and populist accusations. and where there is evidence of abuse of social systems, there are already measures at european level which the member states can use. it goes from deportation to a no-re-entry policy. for member states as a whole, immigration is not a problem, but it is the poorer groups that are concentrated in a few large cities. they need concrete support from their countries in their efforts to integrate. in addition, the social fund may be mobilised. freedom of movement is an indispensable fundamental right. all political levels are responsible for its positive development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we greens welcome the results of the commission study. it shows that the proportion of mobile eu citizens who receive unemployment benefit in another eu country is really negligible. the large-scale abuse of roma and sinti from romania and bulgaria, which the german minister of the interior, friedrich, has already accused of as a precaution, does not exist according to this study. the commissioner is quite right: the results of the study show that more than half of eu citizens who receive unemployment benefits in a country other than their own have previously worked in that host country, i.e. they have paid into the cash registers there. and it also proves that the phenomenon of welfare tourism, which minister friedrich has invoked, does not exist. his verbal attempts to restrict the fundamental right to free movement undermine the eu's fundamental values, seriously disturb peaceful coexistence in the eu and serve the right-wing fringe of society. we greens are clearly distancing ourselves from such statements. the results of the study did not surprise me. the legal framework for freedom of movement is clearly defined. this right allows people coming from another member state to seek work in a member state within six months and during this time they receive support there. that's why there's no such thing as welfare tourism. i think it's irresponsible that the old and new german chancellor are silent about this. we in the green group are not silent, but we support the commission in its efforts to remove the obstacles to mobile workers and to give them their social rights.
dear colleague, i do not have any doubt that those who can speak, will speak, but it is not a convention. the rules of procedure stipulate that it is up to the chairing president to decide when and how it is allowed. excuse me, but that is for clarification.
i can do that. it is article 149 (8) of the treaty. this is a "can" rule, which is: "the president may indicate to members who are not present by raising a blue card, etc". i suspect that the time of the other speakers is more important than that i read the whole text here. but as i said, article 149 (8) to answer your question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the one hand, some member states denounce poverty immigration. but on the other hand, are not these member states the ones who benefit most from the fact that we have freedom of movement in europe, that we have migrant workers? and are these not the countries where these workers are exploited the most? it's extremely dangerous and calculated manipulation for one's own political advantage. the german government, too, in a letter to the commission, asked the same question about the exploitation of social welfare systems, and in a question to the bundestag it had to admit that this was not the case. i am also grateful to the commission for making this clear. social systems are not exploited by poverty migration, quite the contrary. we need freedom of movement. but social exploitation, wage and social dumping, illegal practices must be combated by the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same place', but also by good labour controls, which must be improved and adapted to the european labour market.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the european neighbourhood policy working towards a stronger partnership: ep position on the 2012 progress reports (2013/2621 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union is and remains an economic and values community, and all the countries that have joined the eu or cooperate in partnership have experienced this in a sustainable way, with benefits for their democratic development and their country's standard of living. under the influence of the arab spring and the protests against autocratic tendencies in eastern europe, the eu's neighbourhood policy has focused more on developing democracy and promoting civil society, as we know that civil society knows no borders and plays an important role in communicating values, resolving difficult conflicts and ultimately for peoples to live together peacefully. it is therefore crucial that the much-vaunted 'more for more' approach be applied with all the necessary consistency. although we have come a long way in this respect with ukraine and there is a final association agreement, selective justice still prevails. this is shown by the case of yulia tymoshenko. it is the litmus test of whether the country's leadership is really up to the standards of the rule of law. president yanukovych has all the options on the table, he does not need parliament, as has just been announced, the mercy petition of the emissaries cox and kwasniewski is available. the president can proceed as he did in the case of the imprisoned minister of the interior, luzenko. the eu must not play any more games. president yanukovych must fulfil all the conditions for signing the agreement before the vilnius summit. the need for eu assistance and support for the fragile civil society in the eastern neighbourhood is demonstrated by the blatant pressure russia is exerting on these sovereign states. president putin has apparently set out to reintegrate the former soviet republics into the eurasian union in order to alleviate his phantom pain over the dissolution of the soviet union. the eu has now become a belligerent trade war which the eu should stop as soon as possible in the wto in the present case of breach of rules. russia must learn that the time of imperialist great power politics is over and that relations can only be shaped in partnership.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the arab spring has recently provided a mirror for the eu's neighbourhood policy, and there has been a long debate about its reorientation. many consider this task accomplished. but the fact that we are not much further along in substance is shown by the progress reports. they do not analyse but merely describe social conditions in the neighbouring countries, and this from the perspective that the world is a variable that can only be adjusted to our eu fixed points. the strategic approach of situating the neighbourhood policy between a classical foreign policy and enlargement policy, which aims to change national institutions and political procedures in the countries concerned by means of exporting rules, without any real option of eu membership, has not changed. what is the debate today? the commission wanted to make a geopolitical point about the eastern neighbourhood. the european council in vilnius is to reassess the main points of the post-soviet space, annoyed by the insoluble contradictions and the inaction of the neighbouring countries. my group sees the common root of the problems in the neighbourhood policy in the geopolitical use of the neighbourhood policy and in the stagnating relations with the russian federation. in view of the problems of legitimacy which the eu itself has today, we demand that the people in referendums should be free to make their own decisions. if the commission were to think of the neighbourhood policy from the point of view of the citizens concerned, in particular in the south and the east, we would quickly be able to see the real possibilities of changing it in practice. this policy will be attractive to the extent that it is also oriented towards the interests of the partner countries, is based on concrete development conditions and potentials and aims to strengthen them.
the commission has already done so. our security in europe depends on the development of our southern and eastern neighbourhood. if we have a southern and eastern neighbourhood where democracy and the rule of law are growing, where economic success is present and where social, reasonable living conditions are also born, then this is also security policy for us. i think that what mr panzeri said about ensuring that there are regional integration concepts is an important approach. let me say something specifically about the eastern partnership policy, especially because vilnius is coming up. we are preparing the association agreements there. these countries have a european perspective. and i think moldova has come a long way in that direction. i hope that this will also apply to georgia in the future, because i believe that such a treaty can also be initialled with georgia in vilnius. i just hope the georgian prime minister stops insulting epp meps. i think that this also applies to ukraine, which is one step further, where there is a good chance that an association agreement will be signed with the corresponding trade agreement. important steps in the field of judicial reform, electoral reform seem to have been achieved. the selective justice system is still a long way off, and the decision rests with president yanukovych alone. i hope that this final step will be taken and i am grateful that this house and the council on monday took a united position on these issues. and i hope the cox-kwasniewski mission is successful so that ukraine can get the signature. we must make it clear - and this applies to armenia and azerbaijan, for example, and all the countries which have not yet achieved this - that we are cooperating with them on another level, where an association agreement cannot yet be reached, because it is in our interest, but also in line with our understanding of democracy, that the pressure of the big neighbour is not acceptable. these peoples have the free choice to go where they want, and no neighbour can decide that. where these countries are going is their decision in their capitals and not the decision made in moscow or brussels. we just want to help them make the right choice for their citizens, that they have better economic and social conditions. they can get it over europe, there's plenty of evidence of that. but it is democracy and the rule of law that make the difference.
the commission has already done so. the european union is not a fortress. we are surrounded by a large number of neighbours to the east and south whose fate cannot be indifferent to us, because often the developments there have repercussions on the countries of the european union. after the fall of the iron curtain and the collapse of the soviet union, nine countries have emerged in eastern europe, and three have already found their way into the european union. the other six countries, unfortunately, have seen their high hopes and euphoria give way to great disappointment. to appeal to the local authorities to ensure peace, freedom, democracy and civil rights is like letting the frogs dry the pond. however, i believe that there is no alternative to negotiations based on our neighbourhood policy and our values, not because of the powers that be, but because we are often the hope for the people in these countries for a better life in peace, freedom and democracy, integrated into europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i think that mr cadec's report on the common fisheries fund is very balanced. he has focused on the very objectives we want to achieve in the basic regulation. we need financial support for that. and that, of course, was in a particular way about preserving the resources that we want to work with in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we don't have everything left! and that we bring a grant here, mrs damanaki, and say: yes, i would like when the old man retires, that the fishing equipment and the fishing vessel can be taken over by the young man and he gets a start-up capital for it. it's all right. but if we want to enforce the further restrictions and also the cuts in fishing quotas, then we must also keep an eye on small and coastal fisheries. it's not about the big fleet, as is always suggested here. it may be that ten years ago you took this all in the wrong direction. the small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries have been neglected for decades! and, mrs damanaki, when was the last time you went to greece and looked at your small fishing companies and what kind of vehicles they have? they're 50 and 60 years old, and they run on ancient engines. and they need a lot of fuel to run, and they cause an incredible amount of pollution. we have now set clear conditions and said that the boats should be smaller than 12 metres. only these can be renewed under certain conditions, no more than 15% of the investment amount! i ask you, commissioner, for a boat of less than 12 metres, to provide for an investment of 3 million. it's a dance hall being built! the cap is set at 80 000 eur, that's all there is! i must say, i can't stand the untruths being spread here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal fishing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. oh, mr. kuhn, if you would just read! 80% of our vessels are small-scale fishermen. but now, to my own business. ten months ago we debated and voted on the reform of the common fisheries policy in this very house. we made a clear statement at that time in favour of a sustainable fisheries policy. we as a parliament were rewarded for our courage at that time. our people expect us to do something about overfishing in the oceans. the problems will not be solved by themselves, but we as politicians must solve them so that fishermen and nature will be better off in the future. so let us complete the reform tomorrow and vote for a sustainable fisheries fund, let us show courage once again! i believe that measures to control, collect data and combat youth unemployment are sustainable. building new ships is the opposite of sustainability. mr cadec, i would ask you to apologize to the commissioner. it is completely unacceptable that you accuse her of organizing the lobbying against you!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's the big deal today? it is not about making the fishing fleet bigger and stronger with fleet renewal programmes and bigger engines. it is about ensuring that we can fish sustainably for the future! that's the point. we want fishermen to be able to work and live as fishermen in the future. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that fisheries are truly sustainable, in the spirit of the fisheries reform. mr färm has already said: more than ten years ago, in 2002, the commission said it was withdrawing from the promotion of fleet building and that it would try to avoid promoting anything that might encourage overcapacity and overfishing. that's exactly right! we need to promote data sharing, we need more money for research, we need more money for training, for example, and it is also very good that we have now included the integrated maritime policy for the first time. i would have liked to see it not only supported up to 6%, but also beyond that. so there are a whole range of things that we can promote to ensure that fishermen are still allowed to fish in a sustainable way. we should decide tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was pleased to accompany this report on behalf of my group. i heard recently that we know a lot more about space than we do about the oceans, and i think that's true. i feel that we know far too little about the oceans, and we will use them far more in the future as the world's population grows. we all know this, not just in europe, where we talk about blue growth. of course, knowing everything about the oceans is essential if we are to deal with the sea properly. we need ocean mapping, we need data collection, not only that, we need to share the data that exists, and we need to use this data, because we want to be able to use in future generations not only the beauty, but also the potential of the oceans, and to use it in a way that does not destroy the oceans, but keeps them really healthy. that is why it is very important that we have this report today. i think that this is also in full accordance with the integrated maritime policy and also with the fisheries fund which we have just discussed today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to say on behalf of my group that i consider it irresponsible to classify the current dispute over the 2013-2014 budget as a power play. and i think it is very problematic - and i think this applies to the major groups as well - that we as a parliament allow ourselves to be influenced from the inside by how others present us. we are responsible here if the 3.9 billion euro is not available for the budget, so that ultimately the expenditure, the responsibilities of the european union cannot be paid. and we shall keep on putting the question of insolvency back and forth. we will be under pressure again and again: now they have to decide that so we're at least still solvent for the next four weeks. we should not do that to ourselves as a parliament. it's just not possible. that is why i am against an extension of the agenda to the supplementary budget by 2.7 billion unless at the same time a guarantee is given that the 3.9 billion will be paid. if we don't get it, we can't decide what to do. it's not possible! there are several options now: we could do it as daniel cohn-bendit has proposed, namely by calling a special session. but we can also do it in such a way that we get the assurances from the two representatives of the council and the commission that we will receive the announcement from the council, from the summit, that these 3.9 billion will be paid by tomorrow morning at the latest. if that guarantee is not forthcoming, we cannot decide on the 2.7 billion. that needs to be said here, bluntly and clearly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without this guarantee parliament cannot take a decision. that cannot be, and it should not be, and we should not give in to it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr callanan, what you call the age-old agenda is first and foremost the dream of human beings to live in dignity and equality. what is this you call an ancient agenda? what kind of a wardrobe do you have to jump out of today and try to convince us that what has been a value for many people for decades - in principle since 1789 - should no longer be a value? are you trying to tell us that this has no place in the european parliament? we are not going to be able to do that. that there is an attempt to roll back basic rights, and if they are those of reproductive health? you want to go back there? is this your dream of a europe? you can't be serious! what we saw yesterday is a foretaste of the clashes during the european election campaign. and i say, particularly to you in the commission and in the council, that you have a great deal of responsibility for whether we will have more right-wing populists, people with a national mindset, sitting here in the next parliamentary term, or whether there are people here who are really fighting for a european union in which everyone can find themselves and who also have solutions in place that are really sustainable for the future. if i look at the agenda of the summit, it sounds wonderful. there is talk of the digital agenda, it all sounds promising. but if we look at ourselves, we know very well that the institutions are not able to solve the problems of the present, and that they are not even able to tackle the problems that arise from the past. we are talking about a position or an understanding of refugee policy in a kind of annex. we don't talk about what the real reasons are for people coming here, why we as the european union have a duty to create legal pathways so that people fleeing hunger, climate disasters, wars or poverty are at least treated humanely, and that we have a duty to these values. the european union is a closed system, so it is not surprising that people are looking for illegal ways to get in. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. that is our obligation. if i look at the way we are doing with the mff and the budgetary components, i simply cannot help but say again on this point: we will - and this must be made clear again - even if the 3.9 billion is paid, we will carry a deficit of 5 billion into the next financial year. i would like to know very clearly what proportion of the 2014 budget is still due for commitments under the 2007-2013 mff? so we can know what we're talking about. what is that percentage? where is the ability to design for the next few years? it is already pre-programmed that next year we will have one supplementary budget after another. we know that the insolvency will then be hanging over us again next year. when are you gonna get this place ready? when will you get your house in order? why do we let the finance ministers of the member states dictate that they do not care what we have decided here in the european parliament together with the council? the budget and the mff, everything that was decided before, was decided jointly. this is not some invention of parliament. the countries must be involved, and they simply are not, and this has to be brought to the table. it's part of the commitment. i think that is an age-old agenda, namely to say that solidarity is the foundation of the european union. and if individual member states give up here, then we need not be surprised if we get the receipt at the elections. it is therefore not surprising that in the future there may be half-measures or even completely different conditions and that there can no longer be a normal, cultural, tolerant debate on fundamental values, namely human rights, the right of people to live with dignity. that's the claim, or we'll let it go. then we can give it up. but please, give us clear answers! stop trying to fool us and pretend we don't know. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to focus in my speech on lampedusa, on the issues of immigration. we are all agreed here in parliament that we must help people in need, especially those in distress at sea. this is beyond question and is also the legal situation in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, we here in the european parliament agree that we really must help those who are persecuted. the european council is asked to send a signal to syria to take action now and to commit to providing a permanent contingent to help the refugees of the civil war there. but there's a third point, and that's where there's a difference in this house. when i hear mr swoboda, mr verhofstadt and others calling for more legal migration to solve the problem, the first thing i ask myself is: is it being done as if there is no such thing as legal migration? we have hundreds of thousands of eu foreigners coming to europe every year. but it is decided at national level, and it is also good that our national colleagues decide what immigration rates we have, because they know better about the labour markets than we do at european level. the second thing that comes to mind is how many are we going to take in, mr swoboda? we're taking in a million from africa? we're taking in two million from africa? give me some numbers. do you think that legal immigration will then stop the hundreds of millions of people who are still waiting in africa and who want to escape from hopelessness from taking the road of the traffickers? does anyone seriously believe that? thirdly, mr swoboda, i would like you to explain the argument that we should open the doors now to the greek, italian and spanish young people. we have 50% youth unemployment there. our young people in europe have no work! and then there are serious considerations about opening the doors to african youth. this can't be the way! so yes to help in syria, yes to help those who are really persecuted, but please stop giving legal migration as one of the answers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all don't want that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european banking union is one of the central themes of this summit. this banking union holds great promise for the future of strict control of banks and for ensuring that the bills are no longer paid by taxpayers in the future when banks speculate or make shady deals, but in the future by the creditors of these banks. this is precisely the promise of banking union that is most at risk at the moment. in the negotiations on the resolution directive, the council has inserted an exception which now looks like if they pay the subsidies to the banks before the actual resolution event, they can do so indefinitely! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unacceptable! the european commission is not defending its proposal but is even legitimising this exceptional policy of the european council. the same is happening with the current system of settlement. there is now a hint of a compromise that the european commission's good proposal is being jeopardised by not creating a resolution unit for the eurozone, but both. this is a typical european bureaucratic solution. a european resolution body and at least 18 national ones that are to continue to exist, with 18 funds, which will lead to decisions not being made efficiently and in the end taxpayers will have to pay the bill again. these are not sensible solutions. that is why we must call on the council to save the banking union, rather than undermining it now by introducing new exceptional measures.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the country-specific recommendations in the european semester are designed to help member states, in concert with each other, take the necessary measures at national level to ensure a successful recovery in europe. in some countries - even if the left side of the house is always different - there are already positive effects of this approach. an important element in this context is that not only macroeconomic elements but above all the uniform and consistent implementation and application of the rules for the european internal market become the benchmark for assessing the policies of individual countries. only then can the single market be fully exploited and all citizens benefit equally. we will therefore have to strengthen the so-called single market integration report as part of the country-specific recommendations. the committee on the internal market has unanimously supported the initiative of commissioner barnier in this respect.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we must really deal with what we are dealing with. if a household is consistently spending more money than it is taking in, it has a problem. if a company is consistently spending more money than it takes in, it has a problem. but with states, it's suddenly possible! i am not going to go into detail. i thought we were supposed to be a little more honest with each other here. in the long term, we cannot offer the people a future unless we can reconcile government tasks, revenues and expenditure. what i really want to warn against is the solution of the motto: if the member state is overburdened, then we simply hand it over to the european level. we have a different financial pot, we have different responsibilities, we can delegate everything. that's not the answer. it is not in the interests of the citizens or of the european economic area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the crucial point in the debate on the european semester. if we have achieved anything together in this house, it is that we are no longer looking at budgets in hindsight, as was the case in the old stability and growth pact, but that we want to detect shortcomings at an early stage so that we do not have the problems we have unfortunately had to experience. so i want to thank you very much for the fact that you are doing your job. we should be doing our part here. if we want europe to succeed, there is no way around this path of the european semester and the commitment of the member states to implement the commitments they have made. otherwise, we're going to the wall with this continent. we should avoid that!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not because of the lunch but for practical reasons that the epp is asking for this matter to be postponed again, because next week we have a delegation from the committee on the interior visiting the united states and holding talks there. and we have a committee of inquiry in the european parliament which will look into this question. we all want clarity on this issue in this house, but it should be discussed first and then we should decide. we therefore ask again that this motion be postponed once more and that the results of the debate be awaited when the members return. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i am in favour of voting now. we have known about this for a long time. i would also be very happy if we did not say that there is a committee of inquiry. we had a very contentious discussion about this. there is an inquiry by the committee on civil liberties because certain colleagues voted against their own inquiry committee. is that not true, mr weber? and the second thing i would like to say is that if a committee goes to washington, it would be nice if it had a strong vote in this parliament that the behaviour of the american authorities on this issue is unacceptable. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am pleased that we can discuss this annual report today, in the presence of the high commissioners/vice-presidents of the commission. we are now in an important phase of analysis of the development of european foreign policy after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and we want to send a clear message that this foreign policy must be democratically legitimised. i believe that the european union is increasingly becoming a global player, rather than a global payer, as we have been. we want to become a global player. the commission has already taken important and positive steps in some areas. the role you are currently playing in the iran issue, in what has happened with kosovo and serbia, also in what is happening with regard to egypt and syria, we know that in the issues to which we have to respond, in which we have to contribute to the resolution of the conflict, you and european foreign policy are now playing an important and positive role. but we must also see that in some areas we do not think that this is enough. we believe that european foreign policy has been too reactive and lacks a constructive forward-looking strategy. we say we have too many strategies, but no strategy. this is not a criticism of you personally. we have to think of this as a developmental phase. you have been in office for three years now, and in that time you have had to build up a foreign service, and in that time not everything can be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this question, which has to do with the need to develop a forward-looking preventive strategy, also means that the synergies that arise from the three hats - vice-president of the council, high representative and president of the foreign affairs council - have to be brought together and that this strategy has to be further developed to meet these three tasks and to achieve leadership. we can see that it is difficult, because unfortunately foreign and security policy is still an area which essentially requires unanimity in the council - hence the difficulty of making it really operational. but i also believe that this can be further advanced by making use of the service and the willingness to cooperate closely, the synergy between the foreign service and the commission, where you are able to take a leading role in both institutions. i think it's a very crucial question that we are not just reactive where we are successful now, but we can move forward strategically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council of ministers, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a great example of a great power, a great power which has always been a great power, a great power which has always been a great power, a great power which has always been a great power. it's important that we address this issue. we have important questions to solve here, which are connected with the external financial instruments and their democratic control and decision-making. i hope you can help us find a solution here in the next few days and weeks. it is extremely important to us that the december defense summit be a success. the sede committee will be preparing its own report. but the question of structural cooperation and some other questions, including those relating to the industrial base, seem to me to be of great importance. we are calling for a deeper integration. we would like to see a white paper to make progress on these issues. 70% of european citizens want a common european foreign and security policy! in no area do the citizens want europe more than in this area. it is precisely in this area that we are institutionally unable to solve this problem because of the situation in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our foreign service adds value in all areas of foreign policy when we speak with one voice and avoid national isolationism that often no longer has a lasting impact even on the home base, let alone those to whom our foreign policy is actually directed. if we perform together, we will impress yanukovych in ukraine and rouhani in iran and hopefully those in the background who actually have the power there. we will show serbia and kosovo what we expect and what we can offer in return. our toolbox includes tools such as democracy promotion in the form of election observation, as well as trade promotion in the form of gsp+. we should give a country like pakistan both. stabilisation both through strengthening democratic institutions and through greater market access. if you want to be soft power, you have to be able to offer hard power. the eu's toolbox includes the csdp. we have not yet reached the full potential of the lisbon treaty, despite the approach of threats and crises, despite the clear words of the united states that we should take care of our neighbours in particular, and despite the uncoordinated cuts in defence by all the member states. i do not need to repeat what has already been said by mr brok and mr paşcu on the csdp, i support that. thank you, commissioner, for your contribution to the december summit. i would ask you to make sure that all three envelopes are filled in there. the strategic part, the part about capacity and skills, and also the part about the internal market and the industrial base. i think we should make it clear to the member states that they are wasting their scarce money if they continue with the csdp as they have done so far. that's why this summit is a must. it must not fail, and it must not come up with mere lip service, but it must really be a place where orders are given. i hope that we can then perhaps do this in the form of setting up a formal council of defence ministers for next year, which will then, so to speak, accompany the decisions on implementation on a full-time basis.
mr president, i would like to welcome mr brok’s report because, even though there is some relevant disagreement, there is much more that we have in common. in a world in flux, europe’s broad security environment is in flux too. the reluctance of the united states to continue directing as much effort towards unruly regions in our neighbourhood as they did in the past is an obvious fact. therefore i believe there is just one european answer: coordinate, cooperate, pool, share. merely by continuing with the member states’ half-baked level of ambition to cooperate, csdp and cfsp will not be delivering what they should. i am afraid that the need to change the perception has not yet resonated enough in most member states, most notably in the one that i represent here. so i would like to underline what mr brok wrote: ‘member states have an interest to develop a common vision that goes beyond individual member states’ perceptions and historical experience’. that is exactly the point. interestingly, citizens seem to be more advanced in understanding that than some leaders because, if we listen to what eurobarometer tells us time and time again, a huge majority of european citizens support exactly that perspective. there is, however, one mistake we should refrain from making, and i think there is a point that we should criticise. funding the defence agency via the eu budget is not going to overcome the lack of ambition and engagement by the member states. these spend roughly eur 200 billion on defence each year. if they cannot come up with the financing for the defence agency, we should not step in and say that we will squander european funds for that purpose. the problem is not a lack of funding. the problem is a lack of making the right decisions. so let us refrain from making that mistake.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam foreign minister, i would like to express my appreciation for the changes to annex x of the statute. you've got the foreign service cutting their vacation days down to two days a month from three and a half. i consider that a considerable achievement. i've been criticizing you for taking the same high vacation days. that is why i wanted to express my appreciation for your efforts. i know it was you. it certainly was not an easy decision. it gives you more flexibility in terms of rest and recreation, giving days off where they are really needed. it would be nice if this decision, where there are days off in future in third countries, were made in full transparency, because i would really like to praise you much more than criticize you.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. − mr president, it has certainly been an interesting debate. i am not quite sure when it began, but i was expecting some of the contributions. i think some of you see what you feel is a growing ability of the eu to act. you pointed to a number of examples – for which i thank you – of areas where you have seen the european union develop its capacity, on behalf of all its citizens, to be able to respond to some of the crises and challenges that we face, particularly those that focus on our neighbourhood – but not only those. a number of colleagues have talked about our relationships right across the world. for some of you, i sense a frustration that there is much more to be done. you would like to see europe act in a more coherent way. you would like to see europe act in a different way than that which is allowed under the lisbon treaty – which is, if you like, the rule book under which i operate. but not all of you: some of you are very glad that the rule book of lisbon exists. some of you might even want to undo it and make the relationship between all of us very different. so i am very conscious, as i listen to this debate, that it reflects the wide range of views and ideas that i see reflected on a day-to-day basis when i am in contact with many of our colleagues across the european union. but i am very straightforward in my view. i believe – and my colleagues in the foreign affairs council, of which i am president, know – that when we decide to work together and act together, we can achieve more than we can do individually. this does not take away from the capacity of individual nations to have important and strong relationships with others. what it does is enable us to get across the messages on which we all agree, and the values which we all hold, more consistently and better when we stand together. it is the oldest thing in the book. it is the thing we have known in the european union from the beginning, but it is the thing that we have learnt from the playground onwards: that if you stand together for what you believe, you are much more likely to be successful in achieving it. that is what this is about. i accept that we are very often reactive, but actually it is not surprising, considering the speed of events with which we have been confronted, especially in our southern neighbourhood. few, if any, predicted what would happen. some, with hindsight, ‘predicted’ what would happen but few, if any, really did predict it. the journey is by no means over. so, yes, we do react to events from time to time, but we also do so by creating the momentum to demonstrate our commitment to help those nations get through difficult times so that the kind of societies that people in many cases have fought for – and in some cases have died for – can become a reality. we are engaged all the time in conflict prevention and resolution. there are examples of it, sometimes more obvious than others, all across the world. in many cases people work tirelessly to achieve that in a deliberately very quiet way. as well as our neighbourhood, i also pointed to the strategic relationships that we need. we need them with nato as much as we need them with the united nations. if the secretary-general of nato was standing here today, he would say the same thing. it is not ‘either/or’, it is ‘both/and’. it is about projecting what we do in collaboration with our partners across the world to achieve more than we can achieve on our own. it is about the values of human rights. it is about economics meeting politics. it is about the comprehensive approach – not words just to be thrown around, but actually representing what we uniquely do when we bring together all that we do and aim our work, very deliberately, at some of the big problems and issues that we face. it is also the case that our missions matter, whether they are civilian or military. of course they are made up of people from member states: that is what europe is. and of course they are done in partnership with others. but they really do matter. if you talk with those who are engaged in the missions, they will tell you that the collaboration they get from working with other member states adds a new richness to the capacity they have to act as individual nations. when it comes to how we spend eur 200 billion, nobody can tell me that we could not spend it better. the point about collaboration between defence ministers, when i chair their meetings, is to be able to use our resources to greater effect for all our citizens. it is not about giving something up, but about gaining something by being able to use resources better, whether it is the research we have done into improvised explosive devices, the ability to do mid-air refuelling – so important for future missions – or the work we do on a regular basis with nato to complement each other on the way in which resources are used. these are positive developments and are nothing to be frightened of. but i would say to the honourable members that we are not onlookers in the world. this service is three years old and this role is four years old. it will grow and develop. i hope that i have given my successors the foundations upon which they can build to make the service everything that the parliamentarians in this parliament would wish it to be and the member states will allow it to be. i would like to thank mrs koppa and mr brok for their reports, and i would like to thank the honourable members for the opportunity to respond to this debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for the sovereign conduct of the negotiations. i thank you, high commissioner and vice-president, for your work and for what you said at the end. i would like to thank the colleagues who have worked on this report during a long process, and also the staff. i think we had a general debate on foreign policy today, which is what you need. it is clear that not every speaker is always coherent, there are different priorities, but we need such general foreign policy debates. secondly, i must say - baroness ashton, you are right - that we often have to react because things are happening at such a high speed, but one should not exclude the other. but i mean, that was a sign that we were on the same page. the report also stresses the need to address the classic divergence between values and interests and to reconnect them. this has been expressed in many speeches. foreign policy is about defending our interests, but using and enforcing our values. and i believe that this house today, in the panzeri/saryusz-wolski report on the question of ukraine, insisted that the requirements be met. selective justice with mrs timoshenko and the questions of judicial and electoral reform show that, where we want this for strategic reasons as well as for many other reasons, the way is found for this treaty to be signed in vilnius and initialled with the other two countries. i think that is also clear here. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate what you said in your closing remarks, baroness ashton. i think we all together, our nation states, need to understand that in our global order, none of our countries, not even the so-called big ones of the world, can impose anything. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a great power, a great nation, a great power which is capable of making a difference in the world. we can only do this together, and you, mrs ashton, said that together we can do more than alone. i believe that this is precisely the point of pursuing a european foreign and security policy. thank you very much.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the eu has followed the developing constitutional crisis in the maldives with concern. the maldives may not be largest of our partners, but the future of democracy there, as elsewhere in south asia, is important to us. we actively assisted the country when it returned to democracy in 2008. since ex-president nasheed’s resignation in february last year, vice-president / high representative ashton has issued a number of statements and declarations, most recently last sunday, encouraging the political parties to end the stand-off which followed and allow the crisis to be resolved by democratic and constitutional means. we strongly supported efforts by the commonwealth and the un to forge a consensus on the way forward, but it became apparent that the elections offered not only the best but possibly the last opportunity to ensure that the maldives can benefit from a government with a genuine popular mandate which has the credibility to address the many challenges the country faces. these range from environmental problems stemming from climate change – the main target for our assistance in recent years – to the spread of drug trafficking and addiction, especially among young people. we are also concerned about the growth of radical islamist sentiment in the country. this, together with a judiciary strongly influenced by sharia law, has led to gross injustices such as the recent sentence of flogging – now fortunately rescinded – on a minor for alleged immoral relations, after she had in fact been assaulted by a family member. that case led to an international outcry, in which we joined. but it is symptomatic of a wider problem. weak democratic institutions and bickering among the political parties have helped to open the door to extremism. hence the importance of these elections. you will recall that, with our strong encouragement and that of other partners of the maldives, including india, the us, and many commonwealth countries, presidential elections were held on 7 september. although ex-president nasheed obtained 45 % of the vote, no candidate polled more than 50 %, so necessitating a second round. all the observers, including the commonwealth observation mission, our own electoral experts, and the ‘diplomatic watch’ composed of representatives of member states’ embassies in colombo and new delhi and of our colombo delegation, agreed that the outcome had been credible and transparent. the election commission was congratulated for its efficiency and impartiality. this was not, however, the view of those candidates opposed to ex-president nasheed. they launched two legal cases alleging that the voter registry was flawed and accusing the election commission of malfeasance. the result was that the seven-man supreme court first stopped the process and then ordered a complete re-run of the elections on 19 october. in the event the election was cancelled once again, after the political parties refused to sign the voter register and the maldives police services entered the election commission premises to halt the preparations. we have continued to insist that elections be held as soon as possible. on 22 october the election commission announced a new date – 9 november – for the new first round, but the procedure is still vulnerable to legal challenges on technical grounds and if there is a second round, the constitutional deadline will not be met. i would remind you that the eu and international observers have expressed their confidence in the election commission, and we have pointed out that elections cannot successfully be held if the candidates can repeatedly bring them to a halt through legal injunctions. the forces of law and order must facilitate the democratic process and not impede it. we should continue, together with like-minded partners, to assist the country to further develop its democratic institutions. we are important to the maldives, which depends on tourism – taken together, europeans are still the single largest group of tourists – and on exports of fish, again mainly to the eu. what we say and do is of importance there. we should be open to working with any new government, providing that it has been democratically elected: that is, the elections must be manifestly credible, transparent and inclusive. only in that way can the maldives put their recent history of political conflict and personality clashes behind them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the situation in the maldives is extremely critical. foreign ministries of many countries warn against traveling to the vacation paradise, and those already in the country should avoid tours of the capital, malé. we are on the verge of serious conflict - a bitter consequence of the prevented repeat of the presidential election. on 19 october, police forces stormed polling stations and banned the issuance of ballots. last weekend, thousands of supporters of the candidate and human rights activist mohamed nasheed blocked car, bus and ferry traffic. their demands, which are supported by large sections of india, are: first, new elections and, second, the immediate resignation of the incumbent, waheed hassan. the epp group is appalled that the nascent democratic process has been so massively obstructed. we demand an explanation. why did police forces prevent the carefully prepared election? is president hassan one of the driving forces to possibly prevent another candidate from winning? an independent investigation into the legality of the elections is needed, both the 2012 election and the new election on 7 september this year. the supreme court has declared both elections invalid. human rights activist nasheed received 45% of the vote a month ago. it's not the majority, but he was by a wide margin number one. this vote cannot be ignored! the maldives must return to democracy and the rule of law. a continuing economic threat threatens the livelihood of the population. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the amendments to the treaty. let that be the least of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr leškevičius, minister of the interior, you are welcome to attend. i thank the high representative for her clear call for elections in the maldives to be held by 11 november, as provided for in the constitution. all candidates who had already stood in the first round in september should now be able to do so again. the citizens of the maldives need to be assured that the rules of the electoral commission are accepted and respected by all candidates, by all institutions. we have seen the enthusiasm with which people have gone to vote, and it is the duty of party leaders to respect this and to support the holding of elections now with all their might. other actors, such as the supreme court, are also called upon to make clear their constitutional commitment to the holding of elections. the electoral commission is now under great pressure to make preparations for a fair and free election. the eu should support their work. we are witnessing the growing influence of religious fundamentalists and their clashes with the moderate forces. this too will affect the elections. the boundaries between sharia law and its interpretation are becoming increasingly blurred. in march, for example, parliament drafted a law that also provides for hudud punishments, such as forced amputations for theft or flogging for fornication. i urge the ead to take action against these punishments which violate human rights.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the arrest of greenpeace activists in russia (2013/2888 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, distinguished representatives of the presidency of the council! we have described this incomparable beauty of the arctic in many debates in this house, and in exhibitions. we all know by now how fragile this last great paradise in the northern hemisphere is. but we also know that this last cold paradise is in great danger since russia raised its flag on the territory a few years ago. because the raising of the flag has actually opened up the debate about who owns the raw materials that are in this region, and who will start to extract these raw materials. in preparation for the debate, i have looked again at oil production in russia in general and found a shocking figure: 5 million tonnes of oil are released into the environment every year from oil drilling in russia. that's the state of affairs today. that's six times more than was released in that big accident of the deep water horizon in the gulf of mexico. so there's a very good reason why the greenpeace activists have taken the arctic sunrise on a journey to the arctic to put up a banner on a unique oil rig in the arctic. this non-violent action should be a signal, not only to russia, but also to the rest of the world, especially to the europeans, of our responsibility for what is happening there. the response to this with piracy charges not only against the 28 greenpeace activists, but also against the two journalists who were there, is completely disproportionate. the european council should support the dutch government tomorrow and the day after. it is about protecting the arctic, but it is also about the europeans explaining to russia what is going on there and what we will not tolerate, not only in terms of environmental policy but also in terms of democracy and the right to freedom. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i know what is going on, but i also know how to proceed, because the whole case is not just in murmansk, but soon in new york, because there at the un there is a decision to be made on other territorial claims that russia has submitted and which are very gigantic. so our problem is a continuous expansion of territory there. secondly, to control oil platforms, oil production in these waters. now, you might say that this is possible, but i don't think there's any technology at all that's been developed that's been able to actually bring major leaks in the arctic back under control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'm sure you're all familiar with the international box office smash, pirates of the caribbean. i have to admit, in the last few weeks, i've felt like i've literally been in the wrong movie, because all of a sudden we're talking about pirates in the arctic. greenpeace is famous, and admittedly notorious, for its sensational campaigns to raise awareness of environmental concerns. it is also true that greenpeace activists are subject to the laws of their own countries, and these activists accept that. but one thing is clear, this kind of protest is far from piracy. and if i'm not mistaken, the russian criminal code also sees it that way. as mr migalski and others and mr putin himself have said, there is clearly no piracy here. and the chairman of the russian president's human rights commission, not some wild oppositionist, said in an interview on october 11 that these accusations are downright ridiculous, and he called on the prosecutor's office to drop these accusations. he was absolutely right to say that the case was damaging to russia's reputation. i hope that the russian courts in murmansk will come to the necessary understanding of this case as soon as possible, and i hope that this understanding will also allow the 30 international activists to be acquitted very quickly of the accusation of piracy. i would have liked you to have said a little more clearly that you are not just sitting in your chair, as you have made it appear, and watching, but i know from you that our representation in moscow is very active in this matter. we are doing a lot to get the men and women out of prison, together with the dutch and british embassies, which have taken some coordination. i would like to thank you for this activity, and i would have liked it if you had mentioned it. i would also like to use today's debate in plenary to call on all sides to exercise a little caution. the dutch authorities, we have heard, have called for an arbitration procedure before the maritime tribunal in my home town of hamburg as the flag state, and we will be watching very closely how russia behaves in this international context. however, this matter is not a reason for me to cancel planned talks with russian partners, as some of us have asked. on the contrary, they are an occasion for a measured reaction to this protest action, and that is why i shall be making an effort to do so next week in moscow, together with my colleagues from the russian delegation. we'll also be talking to the lawyers from greenpeace.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs. jaakonsaari, how can you think that anyone here is hostile to russia? anyone who works or fights against a tyrannical regime that violates human rights, such as the russian regime, or against the shutdown of a state by a state-owned company such as gazprom, is not anti-russian, but is pro-russian because he supports the russian people and human rights there. you can't equate the regime with the people!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the council directive on the establishment of basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionizing radiation is the subject of this report. so a very long, very complicated wording. the aim of this council report is to summarise the existing and obsolete directives and to adapt them to new scientific standards of the international commission on radiation protection. as these are mature structures, inconsistencies have arisen in these directives which are now to be regulated by revision. this is an essential step, as the values for the health protection of workers and the population have been partly outdated and no longer correspond to the latest scientific guidelines. the two directives are 89/618/euratom of 1989, 90/641 of 1990, 96/29 of 13 may 1996, 97/43 of 1997 and 2003/122 of 22 december 2003. these radiation protection directives, which are now being revised, are governed by the euratom treaty. this is the exact way they're handled. we must not forget that ionizing radiation continues to play a very important role in europe, for example in the production of electricity from nuclear energy, but also in the field of ionizing radiation in medicine for diagnosis and therapy, ionizing radiation in the field of materials testing technology and the like. the point is that in this highly sensitive area we should put scientific findings into practical legislation and not be driven by ideological or emotional issues. the only basis for our decision is scientific data. for this reason, i also support the opinion of the legal service of the european parliament and the statement of the juri committee, which state that this directive will continue to be dealt with under the euratom treaty. the reason given is that article 31 of the euratom treaty covers the protection of workers and the general public against ionizing radiation. we should maintain this foundation. we have also prepared this report in cooperation with the employment committee, which is responsible for some of the main parts, and the legal basis should be preserved when further safeguard measures are reviewed. i do not share the argument that chapter 6 justifies treatment under the lisbon treaty. i have also deleted this chapter in my report, stating that there is not yet enough scientific data to include such a chapter in this directive. in future, further data should be collected and evaluated and then, eventually, a separate directive should be drawn up, which can then be considered as an environmental directive under the lisbon treaty. another important point for me was that we don't burn entire areas of land because there are elevated radon levels from the house. radon occurs naturally and in natural concentrations in many areas of europe. here it is essential to carry out educational work. but we must not give the impression to the population that these areas are uninhabitable. we need to find a new language here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the legal basis for the radiation safety directive should not be the euratom treaty but the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as parliament's requests for safety standards are not likely to be taken into account in euratom legislation. article 168 tfeu provides for the establishment of basic standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers of ionising radiation. the member states should be able to set higher safety standards for man and the environment than those required by the directive. the directive must provide that the public authorities and the operators of an installation must inform the public of radiation exposure in an emergency or accident situation. workers' exposure must be as low as possible within the limits and must be recorded continuously, including at different workplaces for temporary workers. in pregnant women, the occupational exposure value must be strictly below 0.1 millisievert. the public should be involved in the establishment of the exposure limit values for the general public, with all groups concerned. access to judicial review procedures must be granted.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for your views and for the concerns which you expressed. my judgement is that they were more or less addressed in my opening statement. without any doubt, the proposal which is on the table – this report that we are talking about – is truly an important one. it is complex and very technical, but that does not mean that we should not give it our proper attention. our proposal in practically all cases was based on proper scientific justification, and what i would like to say is that we also very much appreciate the proposals which you are including in your report to strengthen the text, in particular when it comes to its transparency. as you rightly mentioned, work in such an area is never finished, so i think we should periodically update it. we should acquire new knowledge and a better understanding of the environment in which we live, and this should then be reflected in appropriate policy answers and proposals. many times when we update our proposals and approach you for approval, serious work is already taking place on the next necessary steps. that is the life which we are living. i would like finally again to thank all of you in the european parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and particularly mr ulmer, for a very good report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i have been a radiation protection officer for 30 years now and have examined many tens of thousands of people. so i know exactly what the dangers of radiation are. we shouldn't blame each other for being caught. there is no neutral person, there is no neutral politician and of course there is no neutral industry. but that doesn't mean that we don't respect each other, that we shouldn't have open, honest, scientifically sound discussions. the rest is pretty much all said and done. i look forward to the vote tomorrow. perhaps one more sentence: as we delve deeper into quantum physics, we will think about it for a long time and probably also come to the conclusion that high-energy radiation was once the basis for the creation of our universe and ultimately life.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the environment action programme is an important instrument for the purposeful and coherent pursuit of the various aspects of a balanced european environmental policy. the crucial thing is that, with the help of the new environmental action programme, we will succeed in linking environmental policy and economic policy well in the coming years. i would like to address three issues. first, we need to take a strategic approach to limiting landfilling to non-recyclable waste by 2020 and to the goal of reducing waste in the oceans. the public must be made more aware of the need to avoid waste and thus reduce the overall amount of waste. recycling also needs to be learned. secondly, the quality of our soils. it is the basis of a healthy environment and it is the capital of good agricultural production. unfortunately, in this document we are referring once again to a european soil protection directive which, in the light of wise findings, has been withdrawn by commission president barroso in the last few weeks in the context of the refit programme. the protection of soil is clearly a national responsibility. land is not transferable and is not a commodity of the internal market traded across borders. europe must ensure compliance with eu legislation relevant to soil, such as the water framework directive, the plant protection directive. i'm sure we can share many good experiences here. third, the endocrine disruptors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission was supposed to present a new strategy on endocrine disruptors at the end of this year. the fact that an impact assessment is now to be considered as a preliminary step is not to be understood. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gaston franco, for the environmental action programme and the report.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, catherine trautmann beats me on experience in this house, although i beat her on age. taking that into account, i thank her from my heart for her report. i do not mean that i necessarily agree with everything in it, but it is solid. it is also clear that we share much, and that is important in a debate. we agree that tomorrow’s growth is digital: no doubt about that. we agree that economic growth and job creation require high-speed programmes: no misunderstanding about that. ms trautmann and i could not agree more closely on these things, and we agree that what we need are not fragmented national markets but rather a single, unified and competitive market. heads of state and government are discussing this issue later today, and i hope that they hear our message loud and clear. let me address some points in the report. number one: i note the call for a full review of the framework, a call made clearly, not only in the report but also earlier. indeed, on 11 september 2013, we set out how we are preparing such a review. it is not an easy task, but we have set out what the review will cover: namely, enhancing consistency; a single regulator for a level playing field; and convergence. let there be no mistake, however: the review will take some time, and we cannot wait that long before taking action. the question is: are we aware of the situation in the sector? if we are, then my position is that we cannot delay, for whatever reason. with the economy where it is – and we all regret that it is in such bad shape – and with technology where it is, and the rest of the world marching on quickly, this is a competitive game. it is a global scene. secondly, mr president, let me reassure you that we are not taking a piecemeal approach. our measures deliberately target the most important single-market barriers and will remove them. what is at stake is the creation of a real single market. at the risk of repeating myself, i have to ask: when we are so proud of our single market, is it not strange that one very important economic sector should be excluded from that market? electronic communication is not, nowadays, something separate. it is integrated with all areas of economic activity, and this is about jointly creating a tipping point so that the market can evolve to become a true, pan-european single market. who is against that? it is also about complementing the existing framework. ultimately, our goal is to make this a ‘normal’ economic sector, one that needs only limited ex ante rules. if market players recognise the opportunity this represents, then this package will take us a long way – i am certain even mr chichester will agree on that – and without harming competition or consumer choice. in fact, we are promoting competition, harmony and consumer choice. in an open, competitive single market with fewer barriers, companies will succeed only by offering the best deals at the lowest prices. that is competition, and i would claim to know something about competition, given my previous portfolio. thirdly, on institutional issues: our proposal strengthens the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). i repeat: it strengthens berec, it does not weaken it. we intend to strengthen berec with a permanent and independent chair, and i would emphasise the word ‘independent’. this proposal is not about taking power to brussels; i am the last person to be in favour of that. parliament gets a say, of course. it is part of our proposal that parliament will be involved in the appointment of the chair. the fourth issue is net neutrality. for the first time, across europe, our proposal guarantees access to an open internet with no more blocking, no more slowing down and no more discrimination. specialised services are needed for innovations such as e-health and business-critical cloud computing, but these will be allowed only under tight constraints. in particular, they cannot be a substitute for the internet, nor may they impair the internet for others. there are clear legal safeguards here: new monitoring and enforcement powers and clearer contracts to guarantee consumers internet speed and quality. fifthly, delays in spectrum licensing are partly to blame for today’s fragmented mobile markets, and we badly need a new approach on coordination across europe. i am glad we are on the same page about this, but let me be clear: what we are talking about is coordination, not transferring responsibilities. the member states and the national authorities will, of course, advise and will be involved in decision-making, and the additional administrative burden will be minimal. the commission has no wish to intervene except where that is absolutely necessary. lastly, there are also new consumer rights: on contracts, transparency and switching – badly-needed rights, by the way – and that helps consumers, helps providers to expand across borders, taking advantage of our single market, and strengthens competition. we took the decision – and i am still grateful to those founders of europe who took it – to be one family, for better or for worse, and with regard to this economic activity, it is of course far more challenging to have a single market rather than 28 individual ring-fenced markets. we are all aware of the many benefits that these reforms can bring. our common aim remains a more competitive europe, with pervasive broadband underpinning a vibrant digital single market. i sincerely hope that i can count on your support, mr president, to deliver this gift before the end of the parliamentary term. i think i have answered the substance of the points you raised, mr chichester. i look forward to our debate and to hearing parliament’s views on the crucial issues.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i hope that my colleague, mr hökmark, who is actually speaking for the epp, will not object to my asking mr harbour a question. mrs trautmann has just indicated in her introduction that she is actually expecting legislation on net neutrality. mrs kroes said that net neutrality was now regulated by the commission proposal, and you, mr harbour, said on behalf of the committee on the internal market that the universal service directive actually already contains rules on net neutrality. could you clarify what you meant by that?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. first of all, i should like to thank mrs trautmann for her report, in which she again addresses all the important questions which are now being raised, also in the light of the discussions on the telecommunications package. i would like to make just two comments. firstly, in the last 10 or 20 years, we have seen that every technological advance, whether in the automotive industry, the chemical industry, the mechanical engineering industry or the biotechnology industry, is related to information and communication technologies. in other words, what we are discussing today and what you, mrs kroes, have proposed are fundamental if europe is to play a really important economic role in the world. so, thank you very much. i would like to stress that we in parliament will certainly be very involved in the discussions, at least in so far as i can contribute to them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we shall not be able to reach an agreement at first reading. but on the important issues, on the questions of future spectrum policy, the issue of net neutrality, all these are matters, because the citizens also expect us to give a signal that we in parliament have an opinion on these matters. and we should be forming them in this legislature.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank mrs lulling for the question to the commission, because it gives us an opportunity to raise the important issues of wine-growing in europe here. four years after the reform came into force, the first experience has been gained. the main attention of the wine sector is now devoted to proposals to supplement and improve the measures recently introduced under the common agricultural policy. the commission has stated that the delegated acts on direct payments need to be adopted as a matter of priority because of the particular urgency of the matter. commissioner, the new authorisation system is not due to be introduced until 2016, and it is thought that these delegated acts are not so urgent and should be tabled in the new european parliament, after the elections. i think that's a completely wrong assessment. there are certainly too many delegated acts, but i think that this parliament should also adopt the delegated acts, because we have finally decided on the political basis for this. there must also be enough time for an examination. we will not be pressured into simply waving the commission's proposals through in order to allow for a timely national implementation. firstly, the commission refuses to allow the current law to run until 2018 and pushes for a start in 2016, and now it is not getting on with the implementing regulations. the commission also seems to forget that there is still a need for implementation at national and regional level and that the work has to be done, even if the commission has already done its part. in addition, commissioner, allow me to pay particular attention to wine-growing in the context of the negotiations between the european union and the us on a free trade agreement. the european wine culture is not negotiable for other economic interests. the commission must put particular pressure and attention on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, on behalf of, i repeat, my colleague johannes hahn, who is in charge of this dossier, i did not say that there is no need for coordination in this region. what i said was that the existing framework of the danube strategy, which includes practically all countries except poland - but i said that poland can be associated with certain projects - already covers the various issues you raised, including the need for interconnection, infrastructure, education, the environment. all these themes are included in the danube strategy, which includes the countries also covering the carpathian region, which can already use this framework to finance projects specific to the carpathian area. that said, i have taken note of all your remarks and arguments regarding the need for specific coordination for the carpathian region and will pass them on to my colleague johannes hahn. what i can say about the mountain areas and the carpathian region in particular is that in the common agricultural policy we have already moved towards this specific interregional coordination for the rural and agricultural part. the new reform of the common agricultural policy allows, for example, cross-border regional coordination on mountain massifs to finance certain projects eligible under the rural development programme. this could perhaps be a starting point for a broader approach to mountain areas. i personally recognize that they have a specificity, at least from the agricultural and rural point of view, a specificity not only climatic but also social. perhaps the future will allow us to move forward in this reflection. however, i repeat that the states which request this carpathian strategy could, as a first step, use the framework and instruments in place to demonstrate the coherence of having a specific approach for this region. as you have said, from a financial point of view, the money is there, in the structural funds. it is simply a matter of channelling it into specific regional crossborder projects and i hope that this framework, which already exists, will make it possible to continue thinking in a more concrete way. in any case, i shall pass on all your remarks and arguments to my colleague johannes hahn for further consideration.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, amending budget no 6 for 2013, presented by the commission on 10 july and then amended by the amending letter, amounts to eur 2.7 billion. it provides for a revision of the estimates of own resources, based on the commission's forecasts following the revision of the revenue resulting from lower duties collected during the year. the history of this amending budget is recent, but it is part of a much more complex picture, the elements of which i shall try to summarize briefly. as you will recall, when the 2013 budget was approved, this parliament had strongly stressed a lack of payment appropriations, those payment appropriations necessary to be able to pay and reimburse with community resources what the member states or individual entities have spent. all this was emphasised by parliament, which approved the 2013 budget only after an agreement had been reached at the highest level between the presidencies of the council, the commission and the european parliament, namely between commission president barroso, the cypriot president-in-office of the council and president schulz. it was stated that an amending budget was needed from the beginning of the year to cover the payment needs. the commission has kept its promise because at the beginning of the year it issued its second amending budget for eur 11.2 billion, but the council was not able to cover it in full and asked this parliament to divide it into two tranches. the first, which was honoured, and the second, for which the commissioner has sent another amending budget of 3.9 billion, amending budget no 8. all this was to ensure the level of payments during the financial year 2013. the council - i regret to say - has a great deal of responsibility in this respect because it did not give any warning of the need for payments, it opposed the increase in payment appropriations in the budget last year and, when it came to approving amending budget no 8, it initiated a longer procedure which, in any case, would not have allowed us to have the resources at our disposal by the end of the year. from all of this has come the last-day rush. the last weekend in which, in the course of the telephone conversations between the commission, the council and parliament, it became clear that the race for amending budget no 6 had to be unblocked and started immediately. a spare wheel to keep us going, avoiding what president barroso has called the shutdown. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president-in-office of the council, this does not mean that amending budget no 8 must not be adopted, and we expect you to reassure us of this when you speak. this parliament is asking for it very strongly because without an assurance that the 3.9 billion will be paid at the first opportunity, the level of dissent in this house will increase and the votes in favour of this amending budget no 6 will certainly decrease. we therefore ask you to take responsibility and give us the necessary assurances and guarantees that the 3.9 billion can be voted on by the council as soon as possible so that the next plenary session can vote in favour of amending budget no 8 and the mff.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am glad that we can have this exchange of views today in parliament before the definitive adoption of amending budget no 6. i hope this debate will contribute to clarifying the extraordinary circumstances under which the amending budget is being adopted. last monday, at the request of the commission, the council launched a written procedure for the urgent adoption of draft amending budget no 6. the council, exceptionally, agreed to engage in such a procedure, under extreme time pressure, following the commission’s warning that it would otherwise run into serious cash-flow problems at the beginning of november. as you know, the council successfully completed this written procedure, accepting the draft amending budget and its amending letter, as proposed by the commission. the council transmitted its position to parliament on monday evening. i would like to underline that, contrary to some comments made in plenary yesterday, the council started the examination of this draft amending budget immediately. it was only as a result of a specific request by the commission and the announcement of an amending letter, presented by the commission only on 18 september 2013, that the council did not adopt this position earlier. on behalf of the council, i would like to thank parliament’s committee on budgets for its flexibility and very quick reactions, which resulted in a positive vote on tuesday evening. it might be worth recalling that this amending budget relates exclusively to the revenue side of the eu budget. this has become necessary, as union revenue from customs duties has fallen dramatically as a result of the economic crisis. therefore, member states’ contributions, based on their general national income, have to be urgently increased. let me stress that, contrary to the other draft amending budgets, draft amending budget no 6 is not at all related to the expenditure side of the eu budget. consequently, its adoption will not impact on the amounts proposed in draft amending budgets nos 7, 8 and 9. i would like to kindly remind you that, ten days ago, the council reached a political agreement on all outstanding draft amending budgets relating to 2013, including draft amending budget no 6, which we are discussing today. in accordance with its internal rules, the council has scheduled the formal adoption of its position concerning draft amending budgets no 8 and 9 for 30 october 2013 at the latest. all these draft amending budgets involve a large amount of money. it is, therefore, necessary to provide sufficient time for national parliaments to examine them, as is foreseen in protocol no 1 to the treaty. nevertheless, for draft amending budgets no 8 and 9, given their importance, the council has already shortened this period to the absolute minimum. i have to underline that it would have been impossible for the council to adopt them any earlier than 30 october 2013. in response to the concerns raised by a few members, let me make it very clear that the council remains fully committed to formally endorsing the political agreement reached on the other outstanding draft amending budgets – nos 8 and 9 – by 30 october 2013 at the latest. the council will stick to its promises and deliver. on the basis of these decisions, the council will have approved this year a total amount of eur 11.6 billion in additional payment appropriations. this significant amount will need to be financed by member states through higher contributions to the european union budget, which is not an easy task in these times of economic and financial crisis. we all share responsibility for the orderly implementation of the eu budget. i sincerely hope that we can count on your support and that parliament will vote in favour of draft amending budget no 6 today.
member of the commission. − madam president, today we have to solve the problem of the 2013 budget. this is not a perfect solution, it is a partial solution, but still a solution demanding goodwill and some understanding. various serious problems in the implementation of the 2013 budget are the result of under-budgeting for several years. this is not a surprise, even if some claim that it does come as a surprise. it is not a surprise that we have an accumulation in the last year of the financial perspective when all the projects are gaining maturity and all the capitals are sending their bills to brussels for compensation for eligible projects. from the very beginning of this year, due to the under-budgeting, i was crystal clear that we need reinforcement for 2013. the number has been very well known since march: 11.2 billion, 7.3 done and what remains is 3.9, which we absolutely need. but the problem, as you know, is that if we have no agreement at this part-session on the overall package, we run into difficulties because we cannot call for money before 16 november and we will start to have cash flow problems only in january. therefore, we need a second-best solution, a lifebelt for the european budget, and of course it was my responsibility to take the initiative and find the solution via draft amending budget no 6, which is about the revenue side as a candidate for rapid delivery of cash into the budget. this is normally a sort of routine budget, offsetting what is wrong on the revenue side, but this year it is not that routine, because we feel the consequences of the crisis and efforts of rebalancing in many member states. therefore, imports are down, customs are down and we have a shortfall of revenues from customs, and net that is eur 2.7 billion. this is the nature of this revenue type of budget; therefore, i took the initiative, asking the council and minister rimkūnas personally for an emergency procedure. i see that this was a very constructive approach – thank you, minister – and now i see the same acceleration in parliament. this is also a measure of responsibility, otherwise we might stop payments in cohesion and rural development at the end of november. that would not be a good message for europe. so i thank the rapporteur, giovanni la via, for his understanding, and i thank alain lamassoure of the committee on budgets for giving a recommendation yesterday on the extraordinary session. but i also have to repeat what the rapporteur has already said: we cannot mix that revenue-side rapid reinforcement to overcome the cashflow bottlenecks with what we need still – 3.9 billion – to reinforce expenditure this year. this is coming too late, but we are in need of that additional 3.9 to cover all the obligations of 2013 until the end of october. so both should not be mixed. we are overcoming the bottleneck and see it as the second-best solution. of course, we hope for the overall agreement that is urgently needed. we see the concern across europe. i can only quote the voice of the council of european municipalities and regions this week saying that, at a time at which the economic crisis affects all europeans, a responsible attitude from parliament and the council is necessary. here is a demonstration of a very responsible attitude towards these urgent needs of the european budget – but please, we need overall agreement as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, commissioner, honourable members of the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i am very irritated by the course of the debate because there was a great deal of agreement in this parliament just a few months ago that we do not want to get into a deficit situation in the european union. we believe that what is true of public budgets in countries in crisis and of the principle of the european union that you cannot spend more than you take in should also apply in this situation. even if, as i have been following this debate, we assume that the two supplementary budgets, namely the sixth and eighth, will be adopted, the principle that we do not want to be a deficit union cannot be maintained. we know that with the supplementary budgets we will also be missing several billion. we'll have to use the 2014 budget to pay off the 2013 debt. we know that in 2014 we are short of funds anyway because of the weak financial results in the medium-term financial framework. so we are going to go into a deficit of about 20 billion. the commission's mismanagement of this dispute has also brought us into this pressure situation over the supplementary budgets. my group has always said that we will not be part of this. we believe that this supplementary budget should not be voted on today. we want no tangles in this debate on the future of the european union, which is of fundamental importance. we proposed yesterday that, even if the timetable you have been suggesting for a few days must be respected, we believe that the whole situation can be discussed in a special session of the european parliament. this special session may be called with sufficient time. we could then also live up to our own claim to explain this whole embarrassing situation better to the citizens of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, we have the problem that most citizens in the european union still think that we are getting the most out of this, that we are always making bad policy with giant budgets. you, too, mr. lewandowski, are suspected of throwing money out the window. no one in europe, including germany, has yet understood that a medium-term financial framework of seven years has less money for the european union than a year of public budgets in germany. no one has understood that even the largest part of this deficit still flows directly back to the member states and that we are not really living beyond our means here, but that we are managing the deficit in many areas, especially in the social field. i therefore urge you once again not to get involved in this patchwork of supplementary budgets. i would like to ask you to support our request for a special session so that we can talk about the clarity and truth of the european budget.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group still regards amending budget no 6 and amending budget no 8 as one package. we are not prepared to follow the logic of the commission and say: let us do this independently of each other. there is this concrete context, and we insist on it. we want to continue to have the guarantee. in other words, the amendment tabled by the s&d group is the very least we can ask the council to accept. i do not accept, for example, that the council acted responsibly. the council has not done that at all! the finance ministers have long refused to meet their obligations, and we have, of course, the link with the 2014 budget and the multiannual financial framework through the logic of dab 6 and dab 8. we already know that the 2014 budget is 18 billion underfunded. we know that 52% of the 2014 budget is committed for the final financing of the programmes under the old multiannual financial framework. we know that frontloading will further restrict the margin of manoeuvre of the remaining 48%. what is the 2014 budget supposed to finance anyway? these are the questions that need to be asked. and the 3.7 billion is really the very last, the little crumb that needs to be added here. and then we are told that ultimately we should be grateful for this when the council decides on 30 october that it will finally do this. what kind of a show is this? i think that the confidence between the council and the european parliament has reached its lowest point. and it is not surprising that we are demanding clear guarantees here and saying that we will not allow cat and mouse to play with us any longer. the council should take this up at the next council meeting and we are naturally in favour of the amendment. my group will take a different view, including on the question of the vote as a whole. but we need a general discussion on the budget structure.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for the constructive spirit prevailing in this house. i think the management of budgets, both at national level and at eu level, is now the management of crises and of shortage. i can understand the problems of the national states: 16 of them are in the excessive deficit procedure. some of them are under special programmes. but they should also understand – and i find that there is understanding of – the logic of the european budget. this is the logic of multiannual programmes. at the end of a financial perspective, we find that problems have accumulated due to under-budgeting in the previous years. we need to cope with this. at the initiative of parliament, we have now become very transparent. also at the initiative of parliament, we were presenting – and this was in september – an overview. i have to say that ms harms is right: we need an additional 3.9, which is the minimum minimorum to cover all the outstanding bills until the end of october. then the bills coming at the end of december will probably not be covered by the resources of this year’s budget. this is better controlled, i have to say, than some public expenditure in the member states, because it is controlled twice: at european level and at national level. but now we must not play the blame game; today we have to find a solution. i find it very encouraging that the spirit of finding a solution in order to overcome the bottleneck in the 2013 budget is so prevalent in this house. thank you for your spirit, which gives us hope for overall agreement.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i have participated with interest in the debate today and i understand the concerns expressed by many of you. as the budgetary authority, the european parliament and the council are equally responsible for the orderly implementation of the eu budget. we all know at this stage that draft amending budget no 6 is urgently needed and should therefore be adopted without delay. any other outcome would cause us major problems and would be extremely difficult to explain to eu citizens. i very much hope that the vote will be positive, and i would like to thank you.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank the presidency of the council for the assurances it has given on amending budget no 9. of course, we are waiting for the facts, because only when we have the formal and final approval will we be able to be more relaxed and, consequently, will we also decide on our responsibility for the multiannual financial framework. the solution of approving dab 6 is certainly not the best solution, and i will allow myself to compare it and present it to this house with a graphic example. each car has four wheels, all four of the same diameter. it seems to me that our car, which is the european budget car, needed a new wheel. but this wheel was not the necessary diameter, but smaller. the car will continue to run, commissioner, but it will certainly not run at the speed you would have liked it to run, but we will be there by the end of the year. this example was just to tell me that 2.7 billion is less than 3.9, the wheel is smaller. we needed something more, and we probably needed both of them by this year. but we won't have them. we shall not go on at cruising speed, but by shifting those payments which, as the commissioner knows, can be moved to the new year. but that is not the right way to manage the budget and the european institutions. if we continue in this way in the future, we will certainly not achieve the europe that our founding fathers dreamed of and that we are all striving to bring about. i therefore ask the council to remember that when commitments are made, payments must be made and i ask the commission to implement all community programmes, of course in accordance with the rules and the timetable laid down.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point of order: we had a vote once for two and a half hours when our colleague, georgios papastamkos, collapsed. it was promised then that there would never again be a vote that took so long. the vote lasted the same length yesterday. i have learned that there is a planning staff responsible for these votes. these members should either be dismissed without notice or be given window cleaning jobs. (applause from the centre) we have 100 votes today and hundreds yesterday. we could have started at 11.30 today, and if people are unable to do it, then in the future, someone else should do it. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. i am sure that what i have heard since yesterday afternoon will lead me to believe that we will have another discussion on this subject in the committees of this house. i would also point out, however, that mrs durant said yesterday that we had a few votes today. and she's offered to postpone some of the voting. the house rejected this by a majority and wanted to vote on it yesterday.
i assure you that we will look at this again and i suggest that we now move on to the votes on the draft amending budget no 6 of 2013.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed to the report, but i would still like to give a little bit of leeway to my resentment. i have been in politics long enough to know that you have to negotiate hard, that you have to compromise and that there has to be a balancing process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the way we are finishing the financial year now, we cannot continue. what's decided must stand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. so please, dear council, stick to what we have agreed together, and stick to what is in the report!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you called your colleague šuica earlier. firstly, it's new because it's from croatia, and secondly, the name wasn't quite right. i would ask you to give her the floor, she is here.
i shall do so at the end of the explanations of vote. i would have asked her.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in principle in favour of the report, although it contains a serious error. it is called upon to support the european parliament in its efforts to achieve a single seat. the only seat that has existed for a long time is strasbourg. we should only have to use this seat appropriately, and then we would save huge sums of money and could, without a change in the treaty, largely put an end to the travelling circus which is not created by strasbourg but by brussels.
in writing. - fisheries are an important economic sector for many member states. two thirds of all fish species in the european union are already overfished. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) provides for the expansion and modernisation of fleet stocks. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that the modernisation of fleet stocks does not lead to an increase in fishing capacity. the emff supports countries with high fishing quotas and there is a risk that overfishing of already vulnerable stocks will worsen. the report is pleasingly clear in its commitment to aquaculture. aquaculture, when managed in an environmentally and animal-friendly manner, can make a vital contribution to the protection of natural fish stocks. i am also pleased that the fund is helping young people to enter the fishing industry. however, we must find a way to protect both the stocks already at risk and the fishing industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been fighting for the separation of the southern and eastern neighbourhoods for over a decade now, because they are completely different things. i am very happy that this was successfully achieved at the prague summit under the czech presidency of the council in 2009. we are now many steps ahead, and vilnius is becoming a historic turning point. but it will only be a historic change of direction if we focus on what, thankfully, my colleague, mr saryusz-wolski, has taken up on my proposal, namely that we focus on resolving the so-called frozen conflicts such as nagorno-karabakh on the basis of the out-of-date un resolutions. only this solution to the frozen conflicts will enable us to prevent russia from using these conflicts to torpedo its eastern neighbourhood and to take countries there - like armenia at the moment - back into its trap and to incorporate them into its eurasian union. that's why it's going to be a historic event in vilnius.
in writing. − the european semester for economic policy coordination is an early warning system designed to detect possible imbalances in the eu member states quickly. together with the stability and growth pact, it forms an effective tandem. the national level must ensure that the policies adopted are put into practice. the demands of the left to relax these rules are unreasonable. they would mean that all efforts to improve competitiveness and achieve budgetary discipline at the same time would fail from the outset. in the original version, the rapporteur, mrs ferreira, had questioned whether consistent structural reforms could be achieved while at the same time consolidating the budget. the debt crisis cannot be solved in this way! after tough negotiations between the political groups, we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs reached a number of compromises. however, fine-tuning is still lacking as a starting point for more effective coordination. i'm arguing that it's not just economic components that count. social concerns must be given priority. the aim is to deepen social dialogue and to make progress in improving jobs and the mobility of workers in european and international labour markets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. lampedusa is europe, and europe is solidarity. i have already proposed a fixed allocation of work by quota at the end of the 1990s. this was rejected by the southern european states at the time on the grounds that they were not as affected as austria, bavaria or germany. today, it's the other way around. i'm saying we need to learn from this. we europeans can be affected by such developments again and again, we must help those who are in need, but we can only do this if we act in solidarity. secondly, we need a european strategy for africa which will enable us to stabilise africa and find solutions for the poorest of the poor. their escape to europe, even if it were to be done in the most humane way, can only be a last resort. we have to help. but the africa strategy would be the appropriate response to developments in africa which are truly catastrophic and affect people deeply in their existence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the citizens expect the eu to be a place of peace, freedom and security. and it is in this common foreign and security policy, which is so well dealt with in the brok report, that the eu unfortunately still has the greatest deficits. i therefore appeal to the future german foreign minister not to repeat the mistakes of his predecessor westerwelle, not to seek sufficient contact with france. we need a franco-german initiative for a common foreign and security policy, we need a core group of states that are ready to go forward, but we need above all an initiative by all europeans. the community's foreign and security policy is one of the major objectives of this union. that is why i am very clear that in future we must have a competent representative for foreign and security policy. he must be closely involved in the commission as vice-president. the eu must finally become a factor in the world, especially in the field of foreign policy, and not just a collection of small states.
mrs estaràs ferragut, even the very interested colleagues repo, kelly and rübig listened to you.
mr. rübig, what are you doing? i'll pass it on to the appropriate authorities. the explanations of vote are closed.
thank you very much for the flowers, mr. kelly.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 24 october 2013.
i am not going to go into detail. ten days after typhoon haiyan devastated the philippines at over 300 km/h, the situation for hundreds of thousands of survivors remains dire. you all know the images of people waiting desperately, without drinking water, without food, sleeping outdoors. aid has been sent, but some of the disaster areas are still cut off from the outside world. it's a mess you can't even imagine. helpers report that they are fighting against mountains of debris and disease. countless people are still missing. they're still recovering bodies. people are still fighting for survival. the country is dependent on outside help. the international community must do everything in its power to help the people in their immediate need as quickly as possible. the people also need our solidarity to rebuild the destroyed towns and villages. the european union is committed to providing both immediate humanitarian aid and long-term reconstruction support, but i believe we can and must do more in the face of the dramatic situation! eleven million people in the philippines are affected by the effects of this typhoon. the numbers are really dramatic. there are 660,000 people who have lost their homes and are homeless; according to the international red cross, 22,000 people are still missing; the death toll - you read the figures - is well over 2,500. but aid agencies tell us that these numbers are sure to rise significantly. i would like to say on behalf of the european parliament to those affected that we as a parliament will do everything in our power to help with the reconstruction. i am sure that you, ladies and gentlemen, share my feelings of solidarity with the victims and their families. i would ask you to rise for a minute of silence.
i am not going to go into detail. i am very pleased to welcome to today's plenary session 150 pupils from 33 countries who took part in euronest-scola 2013. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) for two days, young men and women from eu countries as well as armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine debated key issues of the eastern partnership here in the european parliament. a long list of issues was debated, from the participation of young people in the democratic process to energy efficiency. thank you so much for participating. i would like to thank you for the lively discussions that have been reported to us. i have been told that your enthusiasm and passion for the debate have been second to none to those of your colleagues in this house. so good luck and good luck on your life's journey!
thank you, mr. taurus, for that information.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 13 november 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the greens/efa group has informed me that it wishes to make a request for a statement from the commission on tdip.
we'll get to that when i call wednesday. mr cohn-bendit, it may have escaped your attention that i called on monday and was told that you, as a group, were going to ask for a statement from the commission on monday.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the gue/ngl group supports this motion, which has just been tabled by the greens. we also believe that we want the commission to make a clear statement on the current state of negotiations and also on the impact of the nsa scandal on the tdip negotiations. and we want to make a statement here in parliament. where else but here in parliament should the scandal be discussed again, clearly and clearly? and if anyone wants to have a debate on equal terms, parliament must be involved. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament has dealt with this issue and adopted a decision. the european parliament has expressed, by a large majority, that we must make our position clear to our american friends. and we've also made it clear that we want to continue the negotiations. we do not see any new developments in this respect. we are therefore against this new proposal. but i want to say explicitly that the matter as such - the nsa problem - must remain on our agenda. we in the epp group have asked for this week - and unfortunately for time reasons it was not possible - to discuss the safe harbor agreements, where the data protection issues for our citizens are actually discussed, and to put this to the test, as the commission has already indicated. i would like to see us having the opportunity in december to discuss these issues in detail again and to put safe harbor to the test accordingly.
mr cohn-bendit has put a motion to the vote.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to ask you once again, on behalf of my group, to change the procedure for voting on the mff. i would remind you that we had the problem last june/july, that the deal that was reached to reach a compromise was not long ago agreed by all the political groups. and if we now add to this the fact that we are not even allowed to vote on the amendments, particularly on the common provisions regulation, then i think that confidence in the work of parliament as a whole is also suffering. we have had a different view in parliament so far, for example on the amendment relating to macroeconomic conditions and conditionality. if we cannot vote on this, we as a parliament are giving up the right to say clearly once again that we think that changes are necessary here. and why can we not comment on and change compromises when at the same time there is a discussion in the council at the moment about changing the wording of this compromise, for example, with regard to the persistent - that is, the constant difficulties in the states - to the word particularly difficult, that is, when permanence suddenly becomes something serious. this can't be happening! we insist that we actually vote on the individual motions here again! i would also point out that rule 20 of the rules of procedure gives you the right to decide that, where there are a disproportionate number of applications, that is to be rejected and rejected. but, please, that one and a third is not a disproportionate number of votes. please correct yourself!
i have two statements to make, and i will take them up, and then i would like to give you my explanation and also the decision on the procedure which i gave to the conference of presidents and which was not objected to by the conference of presidents.
i am not going to go into detail. i shall now try to explain to you the decision-making process which led me to these proposals and to this mode of voting. i did this in detail last week at the conference of presidents and i did not hear any objections, but of course the house can question this approach, which you have done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament had formulated conditions in its various resolutions on the mff vote. the conditions were essentially: 1. all supplementary budgets must be covered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a coherent manner. and thirdly, the establishment of the high level working party on own resources must be guaranteed. all three conditions are met. the working party was set up. i interpret the letter from mr barroso and the letter from the presidency of the council in the same way as mr lamassoure. the legislative process is complete, otherwise we would not have had the debate on the votes here. and three, the supplementary budgets are guaranteed. the basic conditions for voting on the mff were thus met, and we shall therefore vote on it. the legislative reports and the procedure: first of all, any amendment is admissible and will be put to the vote here. the question of how and in what order the votes are to be taken is a matter for the president. now, i've been doing a lot of soul searching, and i've come to this decision: the council is negotiated by our committees in the framework of the trilogue, i.e. the rapporteurs negotiate with their colleagues in the committees. the compromise result of the council's negotiations with our committees, the trilogue delegation of our specialised committees, goes to the committee. the committee will record the results and report them to the plenary. i therefore call for a vote in plenary on the compromise reached by the committee with the council. if it is adopted, what the members of the committees have negotiated with the council is adopted. if this resolution is rejected, we shall vote on other amendments and then the whole thing will go back to the drawing board. let me give you an example. the committee on agriculture voted as follows: on the la via reports, 35 in favour, 6 against, with no abstentions; on the capoulas santos report, 35 in favour, 3 against, with 3 abstentions; on the dantin report, 27 in favour, 14 against, with no abstentions; and on the capoulas report, 31 in favour, 8 against, with 2 abstentions. i have not even got a chance to say, it was so short that i now prefer the amendments. the will of our committees is so clear that i shall first of all present the compromise result of the colleagues to the plenary. if it is adopted, all the other amendments will be lost. if it is rejected, i shall of course table the amendments. moreover, parliament has followed exactly this procedure, for example, with the climate change package, as it has done with the staff regulations. and mr swoboda had asked for this procedure to be applied in the report by mr domenici. it was not applied to mr domenici, with very negative consequences, because amendments were adopted here which turned his compromise on its head again, although the majority of the committee had supported his compromise. i think we're in a tough spot here in this situation. i have chosen this procedure partly because we - and you are right - are dealing with a compromise which was adopted in the council partly by qualified majority and partly unanimously and which was adopted by us - as i understand it - in the specialised committees by an overwhelming majority. that is why i have chosen this procedure. i also think that is the most sensible procedure. if we do not go to a second reading but reach a compromise with the council at first reading, that is the proper procedure and i ask for your understanding that i am proceeding in this way! (applause from the centre) thursday: no amendment is proposed
thank you very much, madame berès, i understand perfectly. you've explained it twice already, i understand perfectly, no worries! but the compromise with the council was reached by the committee on regional development. it is well known in this house that the committee on employment and social affairs was completely against it. we have had a long debate on this in parliament and in the negotiations. as mr tavares has also asked, it is a matter of public record that there are these differences within our own house. but the decision is the result of a compromise between the regional development committee and the council. the position was adopted. i take note of your amendment from the committee on employment and social affairs, which is on the list of amendments. i shall first put to the vote the compromise of the committee on regional development. if he's accepted, great! if it is not accepted, we will vote on your amendment. it's the only way. i'm sorry about that. (the working plan is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'erasmus for all' eu programme for education, training, youth and sport (com ((2011) 0788 c7-0436/2011 2011/0371 cod)) (a7-0405/2012).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. oh, the young people are leaving too. what a shame! i'm talking about something that would interest you very much. the europe 2020 objectives of increasing employability cannot be achieved without education, both formal and non-formal. i am very pleased that the three institutions have taken account of the importance of education and have agreed to increase the budget by 40%. the importance of education, language learning and intercultural skills is particularly evident now with the many young people in europe, especially in the southern countries, who are out of work. these young people might be able to find work in another country if they had a different language and intercultural skills. the way to tomorrow's vote on the erasmus+ report was partly bumpy, partly because the programme proposal had a title that i could not do anything with and that did not deliver what it promised: there is no erasmus for everyone. so i am glad that we have finally found a title together that makes sense of the whole thing, namely erasmus+. the commission was not very enthusiastic, nor was the council, but in the end i think we were in agreement here. i would like to list what was important to us throughout the debate: we have listened to the people who are out there in these programs, and they have told us their fears and their desires. for example, the brand names that have found great resonance and acceptance in the circles where these programmes have been accepted do not disappear. that means that there will be comenius, fundamental, leonardo, youth in action and others. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the minimum budgets initially proposed by the commission are now increased, so that everyone involved knows exactly how much money is available over the next seven years. so you have planning certainty. we have had the right to talk about education and youth for the first time since 1992. that wasn't in the contract until now. and that is why, since 1994, we have had the comenius programme, a programme which brings schools together, which brings together many young people through e-twinning, which brings together teachers, where you can work together on a programme. hundreds of thousands of new schools will be able to work under e-twinning in the next programming period. we have also recently introduced the individual school partnership, which means that young pupils aged 14-15 can go to another country for one year under comenius. the leonardo sector is a sector of professional activity. the erasmus programme will be maintained, but it will be extended to a degree that we can be very pleased about. the fact is that it is now possible to go abroad for a bachelor's or master's degree, or even to write a doctoral thesis. but since erasmus has only a small grant of 200 euros, you can neither live nor die abroad, so you have to create another possibility here! i am very pleased with the commission's proposal to provide students with the opportunity to complete a full master's degree abroad, in the european union, on a loan. it's an offer, not a must. erasmus is maintained. but this offer is important because many people may not be able to go abroad with 200 euros as part of their studies, but they might accept such an offer. we have made sure in parliament that the repayment of this loan is more socially responsible. i really hope that this becomes a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we've done a lot of hard work. but we have succeeded in turning this erasmus+ programme upside down. starting with the new name, which now accurately reflects the most successful education programme in the eu, but also makes it clear that we support not only students but also trainees and pupils, as well as extra-curricular education - above all in youth work - with european funds - and also sport, not to forget sport. education is a value in itself and it is not just about economic viability. we have therefore been particularly concerned to keep youth work and an independent youth chapter in the programme and to make this clear in a monetary sense, in a separate budget line and with our own resources. we did it. i'm especially happy about that! the successful individual programmes leonardo, grundtvig and comenius will also be named and thus be found and recognised. i think we have struck a good balance with the proposal. eleven individual and sub-programmes have now been combined into one overall programme for mobility, education and youth and i am particularly pleased that this has been achieved for sport. for the first time, we are recognising a european added value in grassroots sport at a european level and at least giving sport a little scope for action at european level. we are achieving a high degree of support with the education, youth and sport programme with very little money and we can really develop european identities. what we always wish for elsewhere is now a reality for many thousands of young people a year through the programme and deserves even more european recognition and even more money - although we are pleased about the increase in the budget! i've always been a big supporter of the new student facility. i know that this is a very critical discussion, but i think this is a possibility that we should try to give more students the opportunity to study abroad for a full term. and we shall see after two and a half years whether our hopes have been fulfilled, and then perhaps we can also include the critical voices in the calculation. but i think it's worth starting the experiment here!
the commission has already done so. the erasmus programme is a true european success story. so far, three million students have participated. you can really see that. last year, it was 250,000. so, these are encouraging numbers for now. it is good that we as a parliament have succeeded in making clear in this programme which sub-programmes there are, namely erasmus, erasmus mundus, grundtvig, leonardo and youth in action. it is important that these programmes remain identifiable. nevertheless, given the current level of youth unemployment in europe, it is fair to say that it would have been better to have spent more on leonardo. i have to say this with a little self-criticism. i would remind you that the commission originally asked for a budget that was much higher than the one now provided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would have been absolutely desirable to have more young people and more students participating in the programme, and also to have higher scholarships.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like once again to thank doris pack, the shadow rapporteurs and all the other members who have been involved, for their commitment and hard work on the erasmus regulation. let me underline once again: we should all take great satisfaction from the 40% increase in funding at a time when budgets are being cut everywhere. this demonstrates that the union has fully understood the urgency of improving europe’s education, training and youth policy sectors, and placed them at the heart of our strategy for growth. it also shows that we have designed a credible and powerful tool that can make a real difference to the lives of millions of europeans. i am also happy that our rather small budget on sport has been welcomed by many. one point that i would like to make is that, as far as heading 4 is concerned, it is also a responsibility of parliament to vote for sufficient funding for erasmus plus in the external action instrument, and i appeal to all of you to support this investment. erasmus has become one of the biggest success stories of the european project. it symbolises some of our most basic values. so today let us open a new chapter in that wonderful story and let us welcome erasmus plus, in which we all take pride.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i was only able to speak for four minutes before, and now i would like to add to what i was unable to say before. i was glad that we all worked to ensure that the youth programme, informal learning, was included in this programme with its own budget. it was a big deal, and it turned out to be a success! i would also like to remind you that the issue of basic, continuing and adult education is more important than ever. think of the pisa study, which tells us what deficits we have in all our countries -- not excluding my own country here. so i think we've done the right thing here. i would also like to remind you that the european voluntary service is part of the youth programme. a program that has been received with great enthusiasm. i met 350 young germans last autumn who did this. and then somebody stands up and says, you know, i've been twelve months now - i don't know where, i think - in lithuania, and now i know what i am, now i know what i can do. this is what we want young people to experience in this way, where their place is in society, not only what they have learned in school, but also what they have learned in the intercultural environment. so i think we're in a really good place with this program. and i want to remind you that we have non-eu countries as well. we have the candidate countries, we have switzerland, norway, iceland, liechtenstein. we open it to the mediterranean and we open it to the east. so we have really gone the way we have to go with this programme to make europe really better than the two gentlemen over there who said such stupid things about erasmus. it is a pity that we cannot answer this question at once. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with me on this and also the commissioner, mrs vassiliou, but also her colleague mr curell, with whom we had a very intensive exchange of views. we had a disagreement, but we've come to an agreement, and we'll be voting on the outcome tomorrow. i would like to thank you all once again, you, the commission and the council, which unfortunately is not here. it was a wonderful job, and i'm glad that i was able to do it at the end of my 25 years.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i am very happy to be with you today as you prepare to adopt the creative europe programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur, silvia costa, the shadow rapporteurs and all the members who showed their strong commitment not only to the programme, but also to the place of culture in our society. culture is an essential part of our well-being. it lies at the heart of europe’s diversity but also nourishes the deep roots that bind us together. for all these reasons, the cultural and creative sectors play a vital role in both our society and our economy. and yet we sometimes forget that the cultural and creative sectors are among the most dynamic in europe, producing new ideas, new forms of innovation and high-quality jobs. we need to develop a deeper understanding that culture carries values, not only intrinsically in cultural terms for individual citizens and for society as a whole, but also for the benefit of the broader economy. however, we can see a number of obstacles which stop the cultural and creative sectors from reaching their full potential. the ambition of creative europe is precisely to remove some of the obstacles, so that these sectors can seize the opportunities of the digital shift and globalisation – to overcome europe’s national and linguistic fragmentation and operate transnationally, reaching new audiences – and also access the funds that cultural professionals need to finance their activities in order to grow and to internationalise. indeed, one of the major innovations of the new programme is a loan guarantee facility that will complement the traditional support of grants. in short, i firmly believe that creative europe will be an effective tool, promoting our cultural diversity and strengthening competitiveness and cohesion across europe. the new programme will bring together the current culture and media programmes and serve as a one-stop shop for the cultural and creative sectors. it will create new synergies, foster innovation and ensure higher visibility. at the same time, the separate sub-programmes for culture and the audiovisual sector will ensure that we recognise the different needs of these sectors. the total budget of eur 1.46 billion is less than we had hoped for, but better than the result we might have feared as national and european budgets continue to suffer. it represents a 9% increase compared to the current programmes and that means that creative europe is one of the very few programmes, together with erasmus plus and horizon 2020, that have benefited from a budget increase. creative europe will thus add an important value, a european value, to the many actions and initiatives that member states undertake for their cultural and creative sectors. this week you have the opportunity to adopt a new and ambitious programme that will support europe’s cultural diversity and the creative sectors that shape it. i encourage you all to give it your full support.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the strengths and the interesting points of this programme have just been raised, as well as its difficulties. i would like to make a few points. this programme for a creative europe is highly anticipated, not only for obvious economic reasons which are gradually being discovered in europe, but also for reasons which relate to european values. i would like to repeat here the recommendations i have already made throughout the negotiations, and in particular - despite the efforts made - to stress that this programme does not sufficiently live up to what culture must expect from europe at a time when european values are collapsing and the basis for them has become extremely vague. in the face of the gloom and doubt of europeans, we need something concrete about employment, as has been said, about the promotion of european values through cultural and media tools. there must be a major effort and it is time to ask the commission and the european institutions whether we can provide a much stronger foothold here. i know that this is a supporting competence, but we need superior means. that is why i would also like to draw attention to a second point: i have some doubts about the functioning of the guarantee fund, which will no doubt be of great use to audiovisual operators - who are used to the industries - but which does not seem to me to be appropriate for cultural operations and operators. i would ask you to be very careful, commissioner, because there could be difficulties. finally, our cultural and creative industries are economic development heavyweights, as we have said. in these circumstances, we should increase the means of characterizing and singling out the european continent in this field.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the creative europe programme brings together the previous culture, media and media mundus programmes under one roof, without, however, sacrificing the necessary autonomy of the individual programmes. the challenge of opening up the programme to cultural and media developments, with a focus on the development of the cultural and creative industries and taking into account small and micro enterprises, has been met despite financial pressures. the council has decided to reduce the budget for the programme once again, in comparison with the commission's proposal. i am afraid that there is a negative leverage effect here. the fact that we have to give up a total of eur 250 million for a seven-year budget of just under eur 1.5 billion will have a rather negative impact on cultural funding without helping the difficult overall budget in any way. this cut is cultural nonsense. we as social democrats have tried to mitigate this, at least partially, by proposals for the 2014 budget. unfortunately, the majority of the house has not followed us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the creative europe programme is about cultural exchange, the mobility of artists, cultural understanding in the european union, intercultural dialogue. it also aims to promote the creative industries, which are a major contributor to job creation in the european union, and to strengthen and promote european cinema. the commission's original proposals threatened to be too one-sided in their economic orientation. we have, however, succeeded in making it clear that small projects and non-profit organisations must also benefit from this cultural programme. it's a good success that we've managed to do that. it was also particularly important to incorporate the unesco convention for the protection of cultural diversity into the programme, which reaffirms that art and culture should never be regarded as mere commodities but should always be beings of meaning and significance and should therefore be given special support. i too, like other speakers, complain that the budget is too small. it would have been highly desirable, in view of the good intentions, to spend more money on cultural understanding. it is regrettable that we have not succeeded in doing so, given the council's policy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mrs silvia costa, on behalf of my group for her commitment. we are also, of course, in principle pleased with the commission's proposal to combine the previously different programmes under one roof and to supplement a financial instrument for the cultural and creative sectors. the european cultural landscape is diverse and a great asset. and our common motto in the european union, 'united in diversity', is conveyed above all through culture, our shared cultural values. the gue/ngl therefore considers it of great importance to promote culture and the media at european level. but this is not just about high culture, but especially about the many everyday projects. and that begs the question: what is the reality there? culture is increasingly seen as a commodity, and should be market conform if possible. i think it is important to remember once again the unesco conventions on the dual character of cultural property. i think we must not ignore the fact that it is not just a question of financial resources, but that in many places artists and creative people are working in precarious employment conditions and are not well protected socially and legally. that is why i believe that we must endure the massive cuts in the cultural sector, especially in times of crisis. we cannot accept this, because we need a broad and strong european policy to promote culture and the media, because without culture, as we all know, europe loses its importance. i think we should keep that in mind.
the commission has already done so. we were afraid at the beginning that this programme was a support programme for the creative industries and not what we understood by cultural and creative industries. we are glad that this has changed or has become clearer, that it is of course also a support for the small and medium-sized enterprises in the creative industries, which otherwise would not have access to credit. i think that the commission should be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on it. what we are doing in this area for european cinema cannot be overestimated. thirdly, we have tried to ensure that the value of artists and cultural workers, as they are called, is not diminished here, but that we see the aim of european cultural policy as being to preserve and promote our cultural diversity in europe and to promote the exchange of artists and their works within the european union. we've obviously succeeded. unfortunately, we do not have the resources to do so, but i think we should not complain, because others are worse off!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. good infrastructure is the backbone of our common internal market and the precondition for a modern european industrial and service centre. but what about our infrastructure? i can speak for my own country germany , there is now a german infrastructure disaster being reported in the media. our transport routes are chronically underfunded, our bridges are crumbling, and most of the time it is cross-border projects that are put on hold. i think that this desolate situation is not only harmful to germany, but also to the european union as a whole. it is therefore high time that we in europe took responsibility and brought together the threads of national infrastructure planning at european level. two years ago - and i thank the commission for this - the commission published a proposal for the revision of the tens guidelines, which i believe is a very solid basis, one which we have supported from the outset and which we have been able to improve in some areas as a parliament. but i would like to mention two crucial changes to the status quo which i think should be mentioned. firstly, we have finally succeeded in establishing a truly european approach to transport planning, in which expertise is the key and political arbitrariness is not. in practical terms, this means that we have now woven together the different national patchwork to form a comprehensive european transport network. all the member states have been taken into account equally and we have linked the strategic transport nodes within the european union together in the so-called core network, which has been mentioned before, and thus connected europe. these so-called main arteries are supported by a comprehensive overall network, also called the supply network, which also takes into account less densely populated areas within the european union. i think this approach is beneficial for the citizens because it will give them better access to the infrastructure and it will actually add european value. i know, and we all know, that in the last few weeks and months a great deal of persuasion and work has been required to defend this method, and that is why i ask you to support it. i would like to mention a second point which is ultimately in the same direction. we have already enshrined the common transport policy in the treaties of rome, but in the end, of course, the member states have the ultimate responsibility for their territory and for infrastructure and projects on their territory. i therefore believe that, with these instruments which we have now introduced within the european union, we have had a say in planning, and this is particularly evident in the fact that we have introduced the corridors nine in number , that we have subjected these corridors to administrative structures and that we have appointed a european coordinator for each of these corridors. i think all of this will help bring this continent together, connect it, and ultimately from north to south and from east to west. this will also help member states to look beyond their borders when making their national transport planning and to actually take into account the impact on their neighbouring countries. i would like to give an example: what is the point, for example, of france considering the rhine link as a priority, but this project is not considered important in germany, for example? this is an example of how it was in the past and how we want to make it better in the future. in conclusion, i should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague mr koumoutsakos for the trusting cooperation he has shown, and also my fellow rapporteurs mr ayala sender and mr riquet, and of course the presidency, which has made this all possible. thank you very much and good luck.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that today is a really good moment for all those who are concerned about the single market in europe. because this project connecting europe facility and then the infrastructure in the transport, energy and digital sectors is really something that we needed urgently. we all want growth and jobs, and we can only do that if we have the right infrastructure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. we can't do that unless we have the transportation routes. i've talked to a lot of people. they assume that in europe, because we're so well-connected, you can get everywhere by all means of transport. but it's not! you can go anywhere by car, or even by ferry if you need to. but even with the railways, it's difficult because of the different track systems and also because of the gaps that we have. the baltic is not connected to the rest of europe. it was urgent to change that! and i think it's a genius move. i know it's too small, but this metro map - the fact that europe has now been shown to be connected for transport like a metro map - shows that we really belong together and that we also need to work on this. it was a proposal for a total of eur 50 billion to finance the infrastructure networks. it has become considerably less more would be nice in the negotiations. but the fact is that we have now found a good compromise, with which we as parliament are not entirely satisfied - we would have liked to have had more money - but at least a lot has been achieved. here also: i would like to thank all the hardworking negotiators on behalf of parliament. we have now had a reduction through the multiannual financial framework. but at least the gaps can be financed, there is value added in european project financing, and it is unlikely that it is important to do more, particularly across borders. i, as a north german, also think it is very good that we are focusing on waterways and for example - i cannot hide this from myself - the coastal canal was negotiated back in at the last moment, even though the member states had deleted it. so we actually have a very good proposal on the table now. and now we must do this together, so that we do not have construction sites in europe, but sensible networks that work!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. for more than 20 years the commission has been working towards a single european railway area. the result we have today is a patchwork of carpets, and the gaps are exactly where the boundaries are. so we haven't achieved the vision of 20 years ago, and we're not going to shape the future with just verbal declarations of intent. the commission has therefore continued to follow the principle of 'mistakes make us wise, so one mistake is not enough'. we do not need more money, but first of all a different transport policy. the decision should have been this: increased co-financing for cross-border sections, for the reconstruction of cross-border sections destroyed by war and the post-war period, in order to create european added value and a european railway area! the commission has rejected this and the member states have also rejected this, and instead they are relying on large projects. and the commissioner just said it should be done by 2030. i'll bet you ten years' wages that of course the brenner base tunnel, that of course the fehmarn belt bridge, that of course lyon-turin will never be finished by 2030. we're gonna need a lot more time than that! but then we've been burying the money and we're not getting anywhere. what's been done? for example, berlin-swinemünde or freiburg-colmar, there is no rail connection because the bridges were destroyed by german troops in the last days of the war. there's no will, there's no money. instead, you favor a highway from brno to the austrian border for 500 motor vehicles a day. in parallel, a motorway already exists, and the czech court has twice stopped this project for corruption. you'll like it and support it! i'm not the one who understands. last point: next year - 25 years after the fall of the iron curtain - you have a big event: the line from sebnitz to dolní poustevna between germany and the czech republic is closed. this gap is 2,000 feet long! it took us 25 years. that's not a good example! there's no hope for that. we need a different transport policy and then more money for the right projects!
i have to say, madam president, the importance of mobility and logistics in our social life is still far too often underestimated. the creation of the connecting europe facility (cef) and the creation of the guidelines for a core network of trans-european transport networks will not change this. but both combined and supplemented by a number of ongoing legislative processes make me optimistic. we're on the right track! the focus of investment on networks of common interest and with a high european added value, above the average, and the involvement of local and regional authorities in the planning and implementation phases will be particularly appreciated by citizens. the use of the cef, which is a strategic instrument in the next multiannual financial framework, will help to overcome the current economic crisis, but also to safeguard the fundamental right of our people to mobility. we should not only be thinking of investing in new networks, but also, and perhaps especially, of maintaining and extending existing networks!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. in conclusion, i should like to refer to the many wishes which have been expressed by various colleagues, and which they consider to be understandable. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the development of this law, this is important, you must know this, so that you can also present it in the constituencies: more than two years ago, the commission first asked the member states to notify the most important projects - the most important ones - and then those which could secure some funding. and it was only after that that the commission, together with the member states, again, on the basis of a methodology, defined the criteria. i'm telling you this because you can actually use this argument to argue on the ground why maybe something that you want to have in the core network, but can't get into the core network, maybe you can give it a chance to be included in 2023, when the next revision is due. if the homework has been done on the spot in the capitals by then, you will have that chance afterwards, whether it is the port in vigo or civitavecchia or the connection to galac in romania. these are all the issues we know, the projects we know. it is not really the fault of either of us - commissioner kallas and myself - because we had to apply a rigid and stringent methodology and stick to it, otherwise we would have opened pandora's box. we would then have a wish list of many projects that could not have been funded in any way. i therefore ask you to take this into account and to put it forward in the member states.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr hannu takkula, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a council regulation on the 'europe for citizens' programme for the period 2014-2020 (12557/2013 c7-0307/2013 2011/0436 (app)) (a7-0424/2012).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 'europe for citizens' programme has certainly been one of the most successful of the past seven years. it allows citizens to become directly active across the borders of their member states in order to make europe come alive from below, to build up in the various fields of concern here, from cultural issues, historical issues, reworking to issues of shaping the future, environmental issues, democratic issues - a very fruitful and meaningful programme. we have therefore been discussing this very constructively and we all assumed that we would be able to improve this in the next seven years and, above all, to increase the budget considerably. that's not the case. the budget has been drastically reduced. it was not much anyway eur 215 million , now it is eur 185 million, so eur 30 million less! i don't understand that! i am even less able to understand that this is a programme for citizens, but the only directly elected representative of the citizens has no say in it. the commission has chosen a new legal basis and has done so now in the consent procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is unworthy of this subject of the 'europe of the peoples' and i therefore call for a different procedure!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european year of citizens is coming to an end and as a parting gift the member states have given us a budget cut of 23 per cent in this programme which is so important to the citizens of europe. this is causing me a complete misunderstanding! the programme is intended in particular to improve the understanding of eu citizens among themselves and to increase their knowledge of european contexts. it is a tool for international understanding and the creation of a european identity and should be a positive signal to many committed, enthusiastic and voluntary europeans. this programme is particularly important at a time when the crisis is putting citizens' trust in the eu and its institutions to the test. the reduction of this very small programme is the wrong signal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your remarks. the commission takes note of these remarks concerning the content of this programme. the commission is convinced that this programme is a good programme for encouraging democratic engagement and civic participation, which is the main aim of this programme. the commission is also convinced that we have to start this programme at the beginning of the next financial period. this is why the commission is suggesting that this vote should take place. concerning the legal basis, there is always a debate about the legal bases of different legislative acts, but our legal observations and considerations have led to the conclusion that the basis proposed is legally the most appropriate one.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by mr scholz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the convention on government procurement (07917/2013 c7-0180/2013 2013/0086(nle)) (a7-0339/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are often faced with the question of whether it is better to regulate questions of economic cooperation on a world scale, in bilateral agreements or at the multilateral level. as you know from many debates, i generally advocate the multilateral level in order to create an international regulatory framework that is designed by many partners and that best meets different needs. this requires taking account of the economic, social and political conditions in all the participating countries and their impact on their own situation, and a common approach to the design of economic cooperation in an increasingly interconnected and interdependent world economy. the revision of the government procurement agreement creates such an international framework, embedded in the world trade organisation framework. the gpa as it has been established currently comprises 15 parties, including the eu and its member states, and armenia, hong kong, iceland, israel, japan, canada, korea, lichtenstein, norway, switzerland, singapore, taiwan and the usa. so, at its core, it is an agreement between developed countries. 27 other states and contracting parties including india have observer status, 10 of which are already engaged in concrete accession negotiations, including, in particular, china, new zealand and ukraine. this list also shows that the agreement has been less interesting to the vast majority of wto members. in particular, the absence of big names such as brazil, russia and south africa and almost all developing countries indicates possible shortcomings of the agreement. the new version of the agreement contains a number of improvements, in particular as regards transparency and the conduct of tendering procedures. i very much welcome the fact that the new gpa explicitly states that in future, contracting authorities will be able to mention environmental concerns in the technical specifications. this is the right direction, and it is also the right direction within the european union. i would like to hear from the commission that in the further discussions on the extension of the gpa it also advocates explicit mention of specifications on the respect of workers' rights, in particular on safety and health at work and the minimum wage, in order to prevent dumping. i would also recommend to the commission that it should consider further improvements which could ultimately make the rules more attractive to the majority of wto members, the developing countries. i am thinking here of derogations to the requirement of domestic recruitment of labour and goods, of joint ventures and of technical assistance in implementing new requirements such as tender databases, and of exceptions to market opening defined on a case-by-case basis. ladies and gentlemen, you know that my group sees public procurement in particular as one of the most important instruments for using taxpayers' money to provide important economic stimulus in individual regions, to promote employment, to set social standards and to promote important environmental principles. i have therefore carefully examined whether the amended gpa would jeopardise the implementation of the newly revised procurement directives within the eu. to do this, i have invited a large number of stakeholders to a hearing. according to my analysis, eu clients can still require compliance with labour and environmental legislation and with pay standards, provided that these standards apply equally to eu suppliers and to suppliers from the gpa countries. i would ask the commission to confirm this again today. public procurement must continue to be a tool for control. i recommend adopting the revised gpa.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the entry into force of the revised agreement will recognise the crucial importance of government procurement as a dimension of economic activity and its significance for world trade. it effectively promotes good governance and deterring corruption, and facilitates effective management of public resources. the eu has always rightly insisted on a more level playing field globally, keeping its markets open and ready to open them further, but only if the other parties to do the same. the spirit of mutual benefit and reciprocity should be beneficial to europe’s businesses and citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i thank you, ladies and gentlemen. i think the discussion has shown how complex this subject is. in the case of bilateral contracts, my group is in principle opposed to subjecting public procurement to purely market principles. we believe that the commission and many member states are wrong in their aim of systematically and extensively penetrating the public procurement markets of our economic partners. the multilateral approach in the new gpa, on the other hand, offers a differentiated offer to those countries that want to participate voluntarily. this ultimately allows for partnership negotiations and is much more of a practicable and prospective approach in the context of the real economic balance of power in the world. i want to emphasize once again: we stress that one of the main tasks of governments at different levels, and thus of the commission in relation to the european union, must be to ensure the provision of services of general interest and, in particular, access to basic services such as water, housing, waste management, health, education and culture for its population. the major challenge of an international procurement agreement is therefore to create a level playing field, while allowing for sufficient room for policy decision and differences that take account of the social context. i would also like to say at this point that we are all looking forward to the content of china's new offer. i would advise the commission not to ask too much of this offer, because we know that the internal market for public contracts will be severely weakened in the coming years, precisely because of the disastrous impact of austerity policies, which means that we must also think about the markets of the future. and i agree with the rapporteur from the committee on development, yes, the point is that developing countries must also have the opportunity - even if they do not know whether the benefits outweigh the costs and whether it can be a real improvement in access - to open up a market for themselves in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the one-minute explanations (rule 150 of the rules of procedure).
i have explained on several occasions that the working party is discussing all open issues. we will finish the work in december.
the debate is closed.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have no doubt that the negotiating team has been tough. but i think we also have to be honest and admit simply and poignantly that the outcome of the negotiations is not a negotiation that you can agree to. that is why we will not agree. i can only emphasize what mr cohn-bendit said: we are making a fool of ourselves if we agree with this result. we have come in and said we want a budget to cover foreseeable expenditure. and we didn't get that. i think we should be honest enough to admit that we didn't succeed. i have always advocated and supported the strengthening of parliament's position in the mff contact group. we leftists jumped a little over our own shadow. i thought it was the right thing to do. i stood up for it. but the result is not an outcome that you can support and show. it has been said by the council representative that the citizens benefit from the funds. yeah, what's in it for them? there are cuts here that are not even to be estimated at a glance. it is also not entirely clear where the cuts are made and how much, and where the cuts are hidden and concealed by the postponement of the cuts. we cannot go public and tell the citizens that we have achieved a good result here without knowing what the outcome will be! the main funds - the structural funds and the cohesion funds - are the most severely cut and consolidated. but it is precisely these funds that are most needed at the moment to help at european level to finally get us out of the crisis in which we are still stuck and from which we are far from being able to emerge. we need growth, not more austerity. i think we should really reconsider not voting for this budget! i can only appeal to you to speak out against this bill. i think we have no problem at all, we are not falling into the abyss. we have the replacement budget for 2013 at our disposal, so we can work better with it. i think we shouldn't give up on this fight, we shouldn't give up on ourselves! president schulz has said several times that we should not negotiate in such a way that when we get up in the morning we cannot look in the mirror.
the commission has already done so. the mediumterm financial framework is a financial framework of missed opportunities. that is why we reject it! it is much more in the national interest than in the common european interest. that would have been the right answer at the time. what are you doing? what are you doing? they are even cutting another 4% in the mediumterm financial framework from what we have now, 9% even compared to the commission's proposal. and 24% in the area you have all been complaining about, namely the common investment policy and the major tasks for the future, but only 4% in agriculture! this is all wrong emphasis! you know, compared to china and the united states, the area you claim to be most important to, namely innovation, sustainable investment for the future, research and development and education, accounts for just 13 percent of the total budget. we also have a missed opportunity in flexibility, which is still limited. we don't have the full flexibility. the money will flow back to the member states and we are already deferring 230 billion euros in unpaid bills, so we will be in payment difficulties again in the next few years. this is a bad decision! we've missed a chance with the equity. there is still no financial transaction tax that will really feed the european budget, and that would be so important for regulating the financial markets. and we have, above all, missed an opportunity in the budgetary priorities. we could have distributed a lot more in this budget! of course it is wrong to give so many direct payments to farmers instead of putting them into organic farming. it is wrong to continue to spend so much on mass animal husbandry instead of finally on ecological priority areas. instead, we're still funding the fusion reactor iter instead of putting more money into grips, into young minds, and spending more money on education. we're not investing enough in a low-carbon economy. this is where the european union's sustainable innovation power really comes from. we are still spending too little on renewable energy and too little on fighting youth unemployment. what particularly shocked me was that in the 2014 budget you were not even prepared to allow full flexibility for sustainable development. this is a real missed opportunity. and it shocks me that you all - including the social democrats - have said what you are missing in this budget, and then you come to the conclusion that you agree. this makes no political sense at all! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the council has an interest in this budget after all, and if we had negotiated harder, we would have had a real chance of achieving more for the citizens of europe, and that would have been our job!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three and a half years ago, in june 2010, the european parliament started to look at the next financial framework. we have been thinking as a parliament about the challenges that the european union will face in the next decade and the means that we will be able to use in the european budget to meet them. we have dealt with the substance of this matter in parliament and two and a half years ago we formulated and voted our position with an overwhelming majority. the council is different! in general, when we talk about the council, many people have the impression of an institution in which the various members, just as in parliament, discuss with each other, compare their interests and then reach a common position. far from it! the council is not a european institution but a collection of national egos. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of national egoisms. they have resulted in what we are now finding. instead of eliminating all special schemes, the aim is to double the number of extra-goodies in future, while maintaining all discounts. instead of a moderate increase in the appropriations for the multiannual framework, there is not only stagnation. no, i had to lower it! we in parliament agree and we are facing the same situation as president schröder of the council years ago after the agreement on the treaty of nice. it will report the agreement as a success and immediately announce the necessary revision. we're all the same. we are saying yes today to the mff negotiated and we are aware that after the midterm review a major revision is needed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not making any promises. and whether the revision will bring a change in their minds remains to be seen. but we're gonna have to do this review. the socialists agree to this mff because there is no other way for this parliament to amend it. we must take note of the majority in this house, even if we disagree on various points. and we'd rather have the sparrow in our hand than the pigeon on the roof.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we started out as tigers in parliament and ended up as bedspreads. it is clear to me that these negotiations show that we cannot be happy if more and more presidents interfere in these negotiations and take part in them. this mff does not solve very basic problems of eu finances. we still have a lack of commitment of european money to growth and employment. we are still not obliged to solve the structural problems in the member states, which means that the gadget nature of eu funds in some member states remains. i can only regret this as the budgetary controller, and this character is preserved thanks to the protection of the member states within the council, but also thanks to the fact that the european level simply has too little influence on the way and purpose of this expenditure. i see another problem, too many commitments and too few payments. we had 313 billion euros of old claims at the end of 2012. 313 billion! that amount will at least double by the end of 2020 because we're going to continue with the same pattern. we still have a gap between payments and commitments of 50 billion euros. we are therefore 50 billion euros short of payments, and at the same time we are increasing the european cofinancing rate. we are therefore doing everything possible to ensure that the commitments actually become due as payments. the european union will be faced with an unprecedented financial crisis if we do not raise these problems at every meeting, every time. and it would be good if we could hear from the council at some point.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the critical point i see in particular are the problems facing the european union as an industrial location. we are discussing the export strength of certain countries, but we are not paying much attention to the competitiveness of countries with structural difficulties. there should be much more money for innovation and research. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i think that it is a good one, and i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. we must stand up to asia and other countries as the european union. if we want to do that, we will have to set priorities in these areas that are very different from those of this multiannual financial framework!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i believe that the mff is a realistic budget. it's not about austerity. austerity only conceals the fact that you can spend money you don't have. i think the critical part of this budget is the question of priorities. this parliament has proposed €100 billion for research and innovation. this is not to ignore the restrictive constraints of budgetary possibilities, but to set priorities. in europe, jobs are not created by recruitment programmes, but jobs are created by research and innovation. we are a technology continent. we have set ourselves the goal of being the world leader in research and innovation by 2020. i would therefore ask the commission and the council to take this up again in their comments. we have failed to meet the common target of 3% of gdp for research and innovation by 2020 with the current research budget. we may reach 2%, and i would ask the council and the commission to take a position on this matter. this was a common objective and not a unilateral budget proposal of parliament which was not adopted.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i would also like to extend a warm welcome to the council's negotiator, mr rimkūnas, deputy finance minister. i am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that in a long but successful night we have managed to produce a budget for 2014, which i believe is reasonable in many respects and is a realistic budget, but in some respects will still present some problems for us next year. i would like to begin by referring to the budget of the european parliament and the other specific programmes. the european parliament has the smallest budget of all the institutions, we even surpass the court of auditors in that we have over 2% extra costs by the end of the legislature and another 0.17% by the inclusion of croatia, so that after only 0.3% increase in real terms we actually end up with minus 2% in real terms. i think that the increase in administrative costs in the member states is much higher than in the european union, although there are not fewer officials there, and the controls may not be as rigid as they are at the european level. i think that a somewhat different kind of review is necessary, namely: where do we need staff and where do we possibly need less staff? i see a critical point here on the part of the council, but also on the part of the commission. we should really focus on the content, because there are areas where more staff are clearly needed. parliament is taking the lead in this case, we are shifting extra staff to create our own scientific service, because we as parliamentarians want to be better prepared for delegated acts, implemented acts and also for impact assessments. we want to be able to examine the consequences of legislation ourselves, so that we can play our part as parliamentarians in the relevant committees and here in the plenary as those who take part in the decision-making process on legislation. this is where we need some extra support. on the other hand, when i look at the commission's budget, i thought it was very important to have a much more intensive discussion of both the agencies and the priorities than was possible in the budget negotiations. i think that this is the only way to really move the european site forward. and when i look at how dependent we are on the united states of america, but also on asia and other parts of the world in the area of highly sensitive information technology, it really worries me how badly we as europeans are positioned in this segment, and how underfunded we are in these matters, rather than, so to speak, launching a new airbus it. to address another body which is particularly important to me, i have observed for some time that the european court of justice, for which we have increased the budget somewhat, is having considerable difficulties in its staffing arrangements and that is why the procedures sometimes take more than three years. this is unacceptable and financially risky!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the 2014 budget is the first of the next financial framework. and that's what he looks like! the compromise reached with the council provides for a 6.2% reduction in commitments and a 6.5% reduction in payments. so no reason to cheer, but no reason to go to the grave either. we have negotiated a third more in payments than the council actually wanted to give us. my colleagues have already pointed out many things, in particular anne jensen, who is a very supportive and cooperative rapporteur-general. i thank her for that very much. and anyone who knows how i talk here knows that my thanks are always very sparing. anne, thank you so much. it is also thanks to her that we have received a number of joint declarations in the context of the agreement with the council, one of which i consider particularly important - quite unlike the other member who has now gone off the deep end again - the declaration on decentralised agencies. we as legislators create them, but during the budgetary procedure they are the unloved orphans who are pushed around and whose budget is used as a quarry. we cannot do that, especially since they do not even make up 2% of the budget! i therefore consider it absolutely essential that an interinstitutional working party be set up to deal with the agencies individually according to their needs and tasks. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. and the negotiators of parliament and the council can concentrate in the debate on the really important, large parts of the budget. yeah, that would be something.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to ask mr swoboda to speak on an item on the agenda.
i have conveyed the european parliament's condolences to the family of mr klerides.
mr uggias, thank you for your information. i shall come back to that in a moment, because i have other communications to make in this connection.
the institutions are there. i take it that your appeal has been taken up by the council and the commission.
i would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that none of your points had anything to do with the agenda, however justified they may be. i have been asked by colleagues from various countries who are concerned with the situation in mali, but in particular by a large number of journalists, to repeat here what i myself did more than a week ago, namely to express our condolences to the families of ghislaine dupont and claude verlon - these are the two journalists of the radio france internationale mentioned earlier. both journalists were victims of terrorists and brutally murdered while carrying out their journalistic work and reporting on the conflict in mali. the two represent a whole range of journalists who, in the course of their work, fall victim to war, persecution, repression and terrorism. the minute of silence we are observing in memory of these two victims is a minute of silence that concerns them and expresses solidarity with their families, but it is also an act of solidarity for all journalists who are defending freedom of information and freedom of expression with their lives. we also remember the victims of the terrible storm in sardinia. i'm going to ask you to rise from your seats. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr. president, i am very pleased that you are thanking the epp. the rapporteur, as far as i am aware, is appointed by the house and not by the various groups. still, it's nice that you did.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i have to say, madam president, i voted in favour of this motion because, as a member of the european parliament, i am in favour of european integration and i thought it was very important that the european union should remain capable of action and that planning security should be restored for the next few years. secondly, i would like to say that less money does not automatically mean less activity. less money also means more effective use of money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is important that the eu is now capable of acting again, and therefore predictable and capable of development. and that is why, and for those reasons, the agreement was necessary and right.
in writing. - i have agreed to the project because it preserves the european union's capacity to act. the compromise is a balanced one. only those who share and bear the burdens and responsibilities can stand before the eyes of the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'erasmus for all' programme. in future, erasmus+ will bring together the comenius, erasmus, erasmus mundus, leonardo da vinci and grundtvig programmes and will provide an increased overall budget of eur 14.8 billion. i think this is a very good initiative and thanks to the improvements and innovations introduced it will improve the mobility of european young people and help to combat youth unemployment. that is why i support this initiative and this report.
in writing. i am pleased with the future of this programme, although some doubts remain about its funding. the member states of the european union are not giving europe the means to pursue a more far-sighted and effective policy for the training of young people. thanks to the new features of this programme, erasmus+ will lead to even greater mobility of young people. the areas of sport and volunteering, which contribute to the development of young people and to the discovery of new skills and knowledge, may also be financially supported by erasmus+. the loans will support the mobility of a greater number of students. in my view, the programmes under the umbrella of erasmus+ give our young people a real opportunity to have a personal experience of the european project. these experiences strengthen the sense of european unity, because living in another country is the best way to get to know another culture better, to respect each other and, above all, to fight prejudice.
in writing. - i was pleased to accept the project, which had been pending for a long time. doris pack has worked with great enthusiasm and passion to make sure that young people know the added value of europe. they receive support from an early age if they complete part of their schooling or training or studies in neighbouring european countries. it's worth it and it'll broaden your horizons.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my colleague lambert von nistelrooij has just said that after 15 months of negotiations and almost 90 trilogues we are putting a compromise package on cohesion policy to the vote in plenary. this compromise opens the way to a new cohesion policy which will make it possible to achieve more for citizens with less money. yeah, it's a compromise, which means no one's really happy about it. yes, we would have liked to have had no macroeconomic conditionality in the package, but we can live with the compromise: many safeguards have been negotiated, such as the unemployment rate, the poverty rate or the question of recession in a member state, as well as a good political dialogue between parliament and the commission. if there had been even one member state in the council which had called into question the macroeconomic conditionality, the outcome of the negotiations might have been different. we were faced with a closed bloc of 28 member states. but i personally do not think that we will be in a situation in the next seven years where a member state is cutting payments. yes, i would also like to have 25% of the esf. but 23.1% as a minimum is an acceptable compromise, the council wanted 16%. but cohesion policy is much more than these two points. it is a policy for the regions according to their needs: less developed regions should receive a lot of support, better developed regions correspondingly less support. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the regions in the form of a financial contribution from the european regional development fund. in the future, there will be a better partnership principle, which will involve cities and municipalities, but also large organisations, much better in the overall policy process. there is a reduction in bureaucracy which we have implemented through simplified procedures, for example, there will be flat rates in the future. technical assistance will be strengthened to prepare the administrations and the beneficiaries for the use of the funds. the focus of funding on a few priorities is expected to lead to a better focus on results. we want to support small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. we are calling for the promotion of research and innovation in particular. combating climate change through, for example, improved energy efficiency is one of our priorities. for example, technology centres are an answer to the challenges of our time. let me give you an example. there is one such technology centre in berlin-adlershof, where more than 15 000 jobs have been created in recent years with the help of erdf funds. but there are also examples in other regions: in spain in santander, in wales, in sweden in kiruna, but also in the netherlands and in every member state. the european social fund is an essential part of cohesion policy in the fight against unemployment, the fight against poverty, good education and social integration. and a particularly important concern for us as the european parliament is the fight against youth unemployment. the new cohesion policy will develop new financial instruments. the creation of funds will make it possible, for example, to use grants through loans for the same purpose on several occasions. the cofinancing rates are adjusted and increased in line with the economic situation. this gives the outermost regions, for example, but also the transition regions, better opportunities to organise co-financing in difficult economic times. the non-refundable vat will be eligible in the future. you may recall the heated debate we had on this subject seven years ago - a clear step forward! overall, cohesion policy will become more results-oriented. and all in all, it will be a really smart policy for citizens, building a sustainable future. let us agree to the compromise tomorrow so that the regions can also start developing projects of european interest for their regions, cities and municipalities at the beginning of next year.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore extremely important that member states should not introduce additional provisions in the future. simplification of the rules is the only way to help the project promoters and, by extension, the people on the ground. the administrative burden must be kept as low as possible, and i therefore welcome the introduction of flat-rate amounts and standardised unit costs. this really makes the project promoters' work easier and was one of the major criticisms. it is also important that 20% of esf resources are used to fight poverty and promote social inclusion. the austerity measures imposed in many member states are pushing more and more people to the margins of society. and we need to put these people back into the workforce. the focus on youth unemployment here in the esf is important, but it is far from sufficient. we need more horizontal, coordinated action!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think we can all agree on this: the way out of the crisis is not by saving alone, on the contrary, it must be invested in growth. the erdf is a growth programme, especially for the regions, a kind of economic programme which we need everywhere. and you can be sure that i come from a region that knows what stimulus programs can mean. in future, for example, a three-digit billion will be spent on research and innovation, on business support and, of course, on training and jobs, on broadband development and on measures to reduce co2 emissions. so the old charge that the erdf only invests in concrete is simply wrong and from 2014 onwards it is no longer real! i think we've made a lot of improvements in the design. we have more flexibility for the regions, because the regions know best where to invest. we're doing more on carbon and we're addressing demographic change. these are both areas of particular importance for the future. commissioner hahn, let me not only thank you for your contribution, but also say a few words about the promotion of broadband, especially in germany... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can confirm that we were a good negotiating team and that we were able to win over the council in these negotiations on the structural and cohesion funds. the binding code of conduct for the participation of civil society would not have existed without parliament. we have achieved that at least 12 to 20% of erdf investments can be channelled into a low-carbon economy. and we have achieved that member states must devote at least 20% of the esf to measures for the most disadvantaged in our society to combat poverty, discrimination and social exclusion. this reform will strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union, while at the same time aligning the structural funds on the basis of measurable indicators - and this is the reform - towards an innovative, sustainable and inclusive europe. but all this is subject to macroeconomic conditionality, a sanction mechanism of the stability pact. the regions are punished when a member state's high budget deficit breaches the rules of the stability pact. the penalty goes so far as to prevent the eu from reimbursing funds already spent. parliament had therefore voted by a large majority against this sanctions clause. the negotiating team had not defended this position until the last negotiations and is divided internally on this very issue. we in the green group reject the macroeconomic sanctions mechanism for the structural and cohesion funds. for us greens, this clause undermines the idea of solidarity in cohesion policy. this sanction mechanism also has devastating consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this effect affects not only countries that have already suffered from the financial crisis for a long time, but also member states and their regions that may have to pass through economic valleys in the future. the economic and financial crisis has shown that the structural and cohesion funds are often the only means of enabling investment in difficult economic times, helping to get back on track and bringing investment willingness into the country. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. that is why we, the greens, will not support amendment no 488, the first of the large package. it contains the macroeconomic sanctions mechanism. and only if this amendment does not get the majority of this parliament can other amendments be tabled, such as the removal of the sanctions mechanism in article 21 and recital 19. the situation in the trilogue showed that there was much more room for manoeuvre than was being used. we can therefore use this time pressure to call the council back to the negotiating table and ultimately to remove the sanctions mechanism from cohesion policy for the next seven years. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my dear colleague! i was there, and we went a long way. we have also agreed to create a formal mechanism which does not, in the end, impose sanctions on the countries concerned. that would have been fine. but the result was that the council prevailed! we had a meeting yesterday in committee. even there, the two major groups have once again imposed a tightening of the sanctions mechanism. i don't see that sanctions mechanism having a majority in the house and i don't see it getting one. that is why i think we can continue to negotiate and we should sit down at the negotiating table again at this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, congratulations on the cohesion fund! we shall be happy to agree. this is a very good negotiation. we abstain from the erdf because, for example, regional airports are to be supported in general, not just their environmental protection measures, although it is well known that airports are among the biggest polluters. the general regulation is, in fact, totally inadequate, and i should like to emphasize this. and even if there has been a genuine commitment to negotiation, and i really do admit this, far too little is being done to address the serious disparities in the eu. there is no real cutting of bureaucracy, no sustainable programme to fight poverty, which we urgently need. the council's gift catalogues do not change that at all. the introduction of macroeconomic conditionalities, whereby regions can have their funds and liabilities cancelled if member states do not comply with the deficit criteria and structural reforms, is completely out of the question. parliament has rejected this on several occasions - again and again. and if you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority groups, that you can now wave your hand through this, then you are heralding the end of a solidary and sustainable eu regional policy. that's the message we're sending. and last but not least, i protest against the undemocratic voting procedure introduced by the president of parliament, which prevents us from voting on our own amendments to remove the macroeconomic conditionalities. what kind of autocracy are we living in here? and how much more disqualification can this parliament afford? the regulation should be put back on the table!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for over a year we have been actively negotiating the individual structural, cohesion and also the european social funds. the european social fund has always been centred on two figures: the first was the 25% share of the esf in the structural funds and the second was the 20% share for poverty reduction within the esf. while it is positive that the 20% has been included in the poverty reduction programme, we question the fact that it has not been successful and that there is no willingness to really negotiate the 25% share of the esf and to involve parliament very much in this. we think this is a mistake! we think it is a mistake that parliament was forced yesterday to reject the whole regulation in order to be able to negotiate an amendment at all. this is problematic! we cannot do that as a group! i would like to make one further point: we also find it worrying that there is a growing trend within the esf to move away from the specific fight against poverty and social exclusion to the more and more central focus on employability, while at the same time pushing specific groups such as the homeless or particularly vulnerable groups to the margins of the esf with their specific aspects. we think that is very worrying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the fdp and the liberals are against conservation subsidies, but for help to better manage structural change. the fdp has successfully campaigned for regional and structural funds to be focused on self-help: on business start-ups, on technology support and also on small and medium-sized enterprises. we are thus helping to overcome the economic crisis and to develop the weaker regions. it is in the interest of all concerned and it is good that the strong regions in europe can still receive aid to further improve their competitiveness, because this is in the common interest. macroeconomic conditionality is also important to us. we will support the compromise because it is one of the few means by which we can put the strengthened stability and growth pact into practice, and that is what we as liberals have emphasized here. i thank the rapporteurs and the commissioner. we hope that you will continue to spend the funds in the future in the way that we hope will have the effect that we want.
the commission has already done so. finally, the regulations on the structural funds are on the right track. a little late, i think. the negotiations dragged on, even though they were only about trifles. we have lost months of negotiations because of ineffective and sometimes irresponsible negotiations. the european programmes will thus be able to start with a considerable delay in the 2014 election year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. if these proposals are approved, there will be a second reading and many programmes will not be able to start in 2014. ladies and gentlemen of the left, what is this? do you really want to jeopardize the programs for unemployed youth? of course, not everything is optimally regulated in structural policy. we also believe that the intermediate category, commissioner, is completely meaningless. but majorities are majorities. and now we should finally start with structural policy so that the people of europe can have something of it!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to join lambert van nistelrooij in thanking him for the debate, but i would also like to make it clear once again that cohesion policy is really our european investment programme, which we need in times of economic crisis. and that is why i would really like to ask the members to agree to the compromise tomorrow, even though not everyone may agree with the macroeconomic conditionality regulation or the esf. the esf has just been mentioned by mr lambert. i would like to say one more thing about macroeconomic conditionality. it is not a new invention, but we have really lost our way in the negotiations on the proposal that was originally put before us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to remind you once again: if we do not agree to the compromise tomorrow, there will be such a delay that we will probably not be able to start projects in the regions until the end of next year, and possibly even later. in every fund! no fund can start without the general regulation, including the initiative to combat youth unemployment. in view of all this, i would ask the house to reconsider whether it is possible to persuade the house to accept this compromise. compromise is not about making people happy, it's about moving things and making things happen. i believe that is what we have been elected to do in the regions as members of this parliament. that is why i shall be asking for your agreement to the compromise tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have two hearts beating in my chest about this file. the promotion of women in the management of listed companies is an important issue and a major concern. i welcome the commission's proposal, it is a very good proposal, and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs very warmly in this connection. but - and here comes my but - does europe have to put forward a legislative proposal, a directive? that was the question we had to deal with in the legal affairs committee. we had to check whether the legal basis was in place and, as so often happens with three lawyers, there are four opinions, and so it was in this case too. the majority in the legal affairs committee, however, decided on the legal basis. i personally disagree. the legal basis is article 157 (3) tfeu, which deals with employment and working conditions, and i find it very difficult to say that the appointment of members of the supervisory board falls into this category. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for the content of the report. it's actually a good compromise that's been found now. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the reason for this is that the figures, i.e. the participation of women in management positions, have developed differently from those of listed companies. i am glad that the majority of this house now sees it that way. and i've lobbied to remove family businesses from this proposal. family businesses are characterised by thinking across generations that it is not about the fast euro or the next quarterly report, but that it is about trying to develop responsibly what has been built up by families over generations. i think we should not make legislative proposals and intervene.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not there are few subjects on the european union's agenda which are discussed as fiercely and emotionally as this directive. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to promote equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market. and i think the answer has to be a resounding yes. we need this kind of legislation. tomorrow we in the european parliament will have the opportunity to vote directly for two important values: firstly, for greater equality between men and women and for a more competitive european economy. viviane reding is the author of this law and rightly so, she is always associated with it. but it is very exciting to see that the five commissioners - all of whom are men - who are responsible for the economic portfolios in the commission are co-authors of this law. so from the point of view of industry, finance, social policy, the internal market and competition policy, this law is desirable and necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe can take an economically intelligent path with more women on supervisory boards. and to be honest, it took me way too long. some eu countries have fortunately been ahead of the curve and have made their own laws - the effect is slow to show. and other countries have been waiting for the eu, so to speak, until there is a directive from here. the eu's competence is no longer in question. there was a vote earlier this year in the national parliaments, in the parliaments of the capitals, and a large majority said: yes, eu, go ahead, make this quota! and we should take note of this, especially here in the european parliament, and not ignore it, but on the contrary take it as an invitation to vote tomorrow with a clear majority in favour of this directive. in conclusion, let me welcome what has been decided in berlin. it must now also be shown in the council that the majority from germany is changing. i look forward to the vote tomorrow and hope that we in parliament will seize this opportunity!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this parliament is facing a breakthrough, a truly historic moment! i would like to begin by quoting a great french colleague, the president of this parliament. in 1979 simone veil said: 'dès mon élection, j'ai alerté tout le monde sur ce gâchis de temps et d'argent' (dès my election, i have alerted everyone to this waste of time and money) and this is the first time that the french government has been able to use this opportunity to make a statement on the subject. since my election, i have been warning the world that this is how it's going to be this waste of time and money cannot last forever. 1979! what is it? that was more than 30 years ago, and nothing has changed! parliament is commuting between strasbourg and brussels and no citizen understands why we do this, why we spend so much time, so much money, why we blow so much co2 into the environment. and nobody understands why we have a full building in two places that needs to be maintained all year round, even though, like here in strasbourg, we are only there for 11% of the year. parliament has repeatedly expressed its displeasure on this issue, repeatedly demanding that this be changed. what few people know is that this decision has not yet been taken by parliament. it is not parliament that has decided that it wants to have two seats and to move between them, but the council is forcing parliament into this corset. the council has, so to speak, imprisoned parliament in a totally inefficient solution, locked the door and threw away the key. ashley fox and i have dug up the key now. we do not want another half-hearted report from parliament, which is shaking at the door even though it is locked, but we want to say where the key is. this parliament has been a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council since the treaty of lisbon. so if parliament has to control the council and face its counterpart, the council, as the directly elected representative of the citizens in european legislation, then it is no longer acceptable that this parliament should be treated by the council like any other authority or agency and that the council should decide when, where and how we meet. parliament must have and exercise the right which is given to every parliament in the world that deserves the name, namely, the right to decide for itself when we meet, where we meet and why we meet. few citizens can appreciate how much this hinders the work of this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the french government has brought a case against parliament before the court of justice, and the court of justice has said: 'you cannot change your own calendar unless you change the treaties.' we're doing this now! and this is an invitation to the council, because in the council there is this problem: at the moment, the question of the seat of the european parliament cannot be put on the agenda at all as long as a single country objects. and this country will always exist, and it is doubtless the country that will feel affected by such a decision. we are now going down a path which no longer requires unanimity but allows for adoption by a simple majority in the council. we demand that this parliament should have the right to decide where, when and how it meets, and we believe that we have not only the right but also the duty to do so in the eyes of the citizens of europe. today's question is whether we take ourselves seriously. it is a question of whether we see ourselves as a parliament, as representatives of the citizens, or as an oracle, a handyman, a subordinate organ of the european heads of government. this is not the europe we want, a europe of the top down, a europe of technocracy. we want a europe of democracy, a europe of citizens, a europe in which parliament decides for itself when and where it works!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. what began as a single-seat debate has now, thanks to the serious work of the rapporteurs, finally become an agreement on the question of the insufficiently marked and in part to be corrected system of the division of powers in the eu and thus the democratic constitution of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the question of seating is the most obvious illustration of the problem. it makes it practically clear that the elected representatives of the people's rule cannot determine their own status today. the executive is in charge. i am curious to see how much resistance the council will put up to the report's claim to change this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but this will only be possible if we achieve a clear course correction with regard to the rights of parliament and at the same time correct another inborn error of the eu, namely that 'wrong' system of the separation of powers by strengthening all - and i emphasise all - representative bodies!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr boulland, i am very pleased with every argument put forward in this debate, but you have suggested to the rapporteurs that we have been operating on the basis of false information, false figures and, for example, that we have also been talking about a petition that never existed. i would therefore ask you to take note, first of all, that the figures you find in this report are the official figures of this parliament, which have only recently been supplied by the general secretariat of this house on this very subject. and secondly, may i ask you to take note that a single signature is enough to present a petition in this house? here were millions of citizens who signed. this does not change the fact that the committee on petitions considered this a petition and considered it. so please do not make false allegations, but reconsider your untrue claims.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking ashley fox and all the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators and members of the committee and all the members of this house and also the representatives of governments and other institutions with whom we or i have spoken in the course of the work on this report and who have worked so constructively and helpfully. i would like to say a few words to mrs le grip, mr boulland, mrs trautmann and mr gollnisch: i am very pleased that you are fighting with such conviction for a solution which you believe is the best. we are fighting for the right to have this debate and to have the right to decide here. my question to you is, if you're so convinced that you have the best arguments, why are you trying to prevent this debate? or put another way, if you want to prevent debate, could it be that you no longer trust your own arguments? i think we are all aware of european history - deeply aware! but europe is not a museum. europe must move forward with this history in mind and solve the problems that lie ahead. and that is why we must find solutions that are fit for the future. a pendulum parliament is certainly not fit for the future! we must be careful, for example in the interests of the city and region of strasbourg, that a symbol of reconciliation does not become a symbol of total inability to reform. we are now asking all the people of europe, and we are asking the governments of europe, to take drastic measures: to cut back on money, but also on, for example, climate-damaging behaviour. we should be able to start with ourselves, because otherwise no one will believe us if we ask others to do so. i'm more concerned about the seat than the question. i am concerned about the credibility of the european parliament and european democracy. i am concerned about the question: who really has the say in how the representatives elected by the citizens should work, what they should do, how and where? this parliament is not a full parliament until it has won the right of self-organisation as a core element of parliamentary law. we have to fight for it! the european parliament has always gradually extended its powers. the question is: are we taking ourselves seriously or are we feeling the short leash of governments in europe, as some still seem to do, and thereby losing the confidence of citizens and the faith in the european idea? (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. do you find these comparisons to be meaningful? and secondly, when we talk about credibility - i am not french but german - do you think we germans are particularly credible if we are campaigning massively here at european level to move the strasbourg seat to brussels, and on the other hand do not discuss the much more expensive two seats of the federal government with bonn and berlin at all? even when your party was in government, we had no further initiatives to clarify this real nonsense in germany. do you think your arguments are credible in this chamber?
answer to two questions on the 'blue card' procedure. i listened with interest and amazement to what you said. i did not say anything bad about strasbourg, nor did mr fox. on the contrary, he spoke highly of this city. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. i'd rather be here than in brussels. i also like working here more than in brussels. what distinguishes us is that i believe that it should not be my personal preference, but that we, as representatives of the european people, have to decide what is best for the european parliament. it is not a matter of personal or national interests, but of the common interest. we should consider that. i would like to say to mr caspary that this is what i appreciate about you, your first question to me, in which you no longer refer to my arguments but to the 'greens' in general. and the second question, where you say "as a german". i love it when you reach for it. but let's stay on the carpet for a bit. the second question is as follows: i was a member of the german bundestag when we had to decide between bonn and berlin. we were almost besieged, we were told that if bonn is no longer the capital, this city will be desolate. then there will be no more reasonable investment, the city will be lonely. what happened? what happened? quite the opposite! bonn has flourished since the capital was moved. the parliament in strasbourg, this one, is used 11% of the year, 89% of the year it is empty, it is not used. i know of much more sustainable, better solutions when it comes to the interests of a city or a region. on your last question, i did not say that mrs le grip had no arguments. i said if she believes your arguments, she must want the debate to be held here. but if she doesn't want the debate to take place, then i wonder if she believes in her own arguments. because then she wouldn't have to be afraid!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the changing balance of power in the world must bring about changes in the wto. the stalemate in geneva two weeks before the ministerial conference shows that the old trading powers, including the eu, have not yet realised this. trade facilitation is a nice title, but some are trying to fool the developing countries again. these countries should commit themselves to financing from their tight budgets infrastructure projects which serve less their own economic interests than those of their own competitors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the conference of ministers is threatened with failure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us make concessions in the agricultural negotiations that actually help the poor! give in on the technical quota questions! it is also in the eu's interest to achieve a constructive breakthrough in the doha negotiations. that was the assignment. we cannot afford to see the world climate negotiations or other international negotiations on the future of mankind fail. if the negotiating officials fail to do so, they strengthen the role of parliament and civil society in the negotiations. we can do this! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i see the opportunity for that, mr rübig. the small and mediumsized enterprises in particular should benefit from this trade facilitation. the question is whether what is being negotiated is enough. i see that there are still considerable reservations, and we need to think about this too, if we are to orient the negotiations much more towards making the doha round possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the ninth wto ministerial conference in indonesia is just a few days away. we are all faced with the situation that the doha development round has obviously not been moving forward for many years and that is why we have not been able to achieve many trade facilitations and improvements for all of us. what do i mean, "for all of us"? it is simply indisputable and the figures are clear: the more countries participate in international trade, the more they open up to globalization and try to take advantage of it, the better the development in those countries. we see this especially when we look at asia. countries have opened up dramatically. that's where growth is happening today. on the other hand, we see many african countries still having difficulty in participating in world trade, and unfortunately the situation there is still rather bad for most people. i would therefore be glad if we could finally make progress at this 9th ministerial conference, if we could perhaps make a breakthrough in the doha negotiations. we may be able to make a small step forward in trade facilitation, but we may also be able to make progress in other areas where there is no pressure to do so. we need this urgently! i think i speak for my whole group. we have a great interest in further liberalizing trade on a multilateral basis. all the free trade agreements we are now having to put in place can only be the second best solution. i therefore wish you every success in this forthcoming round of negotiations.
mr president, the us has always paid lip service to multilateralism but in fact it has been undermining these goals since 2007: embarking on complementary approaches such as bilateral, regional or plurilateral agreements. we need a real commitment to multilateralism and, at the same time, we need a structural reform of the wto in order to guarantee a fair trading system, based on shared rules, that takes into account the pressing global challenges such as climate change, poverty, social exclusion, gender disparity and migration. it is of the utmost importance that developing countries, and specifically the least developed countries (ldcs), should be fully involved in the negotiations at the 9th wto ministerial conference in bali, and the eu has a special responsibility to involve those countries, especially when it comes to the implementation of duty-free and quota-free market access, better rules of origin, a better solution for cotton and making the ldc services waiver operational. if we want to be successful in multilateralism and in doha, the ldcs have to be taken on board.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular mr marinescu, for the work done on this dossier, not only because galileo was the first of the sectoral proposals in the financial perspectives 2014-2020 on which political agreement was reached, but also and above all because of the result achieved. this agreement allows us to ensure that eur 7 billion is earmarked in the next financial programming for the deployment and use of galileo and its applications. thanks to the important results achieved over the past three years, galileo has become a reality: four satellites are in orbit and various ground stations have been deployed around the world. the tests carried out on these four satellites speak for themselves and the demonstration was given in july at the fucino base with four satellites: the positioning accuracy is excellent, much better than the american gps, and that goes well beyond our expectations. these results are very encouraging and allow us to anticipate exceptional system performance in the future. this is a testament to the capability and competence of european industry. the programme is being implemented, although the launch of the next satellites is delayed by a few months. however, i am optimistic and remain convinced that before the end of my term as industry commissioner, service providers will be identified, which is why i believe that the first galileo services could be operational by october 2014. it is essential for our citizens and businesses to be able to benefit as soon as possible from the services offered by galileo, which is precisely why it represents a unique opportunity to boost the competitiveness of our union. the regulation we are discussing this evening is a key step towards ensuring the continuity of the programme in the next financial framework, not only from an economic point of view but also in terms of the governance of the programme. in this connection, the commission has noted with great satisfaction that parliament and the council have broadly supported our proposal. this governance represents a significant evolution of the organisational framework of the programme and takes into account the need to optimise and rationalise the use of existing structures. under the new scheme, the commission will remain responsible for the implementation of the programme, under the political control of parliament and the council, while the various technical tasks relating to infrastructure development and the management of the operating system will be entrusted to the european space agency and the european gnss agency respectively. parliament also requested that part of the budget mobilised by this regulation be allocated to financing the development of the numerous economic opportunities offered by galileo and egnos. in the context of the crisis europe is going through, this is an opportunity we cannot let slip by. i have asked the directorate-general to look at ways of strengthening galileo's market entry and all options are on the table, including the idea of legislation to enforce the use of galileo. before concluding, i would like to make a brief reference to two other points. first of all: the commission is fully aware that the sum of 7 billion for satellite navigation programmes for the next financial programme is an insurmountable limit. for this reason, trying to reduce risks and monitor costs to avoid past mistakes remains a priority for me. secondly: the european parliament and the council will remain closely involved in the programmes. they will receive an annual report on the progress of the programme. the commission will also continue to meet regularly with the council and parliament in the interinstitutional committee on galileo, as was the case recently in november, when i and the head of the european space agency, jean-jeacques dordain, informed the community institutions of all the details, including the technical aspects.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr marinescu, who has produced an excellent report and has also been very open to suggestions from our circles. cellphone, prism, tempora... somehow i can't shake the feeling that we're always dependent on infrastructure facilities in the u.s. for the big things that matter. the same is true of gps. every navigation device we use today receives its radio signals from american satellites. we have therefore rightly called on the european parliament for a long time to set up our own european structures. galileo is, in my view, a very important starting point and an important step in this direction to reduce our independence from the american gps. the european parliament has always been in favour of an ambitious european space policy over the years. i remember very well the first steps of galileo. we in the european parliament have always fought for galileo, for community funding. i think it was worth the effort. we have a strong, highly specialised space and supplier industry in europe. we can tap into that potential. even if we are now a little bit behind schedule on galileo, we are on the right track. i am very confident that at the end of the day, with 27 satellites in orbit, with replacement satellites and with the appropriate ground infrastructure, we will be able to achieve full operational capability of galileo. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european space programme. so we've also given enough thought to the fact that eventually there will be devices that actually pick up these signals, and we won't end up with a ruined investment in space.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not thank you, mr caspary. i think that's a very important question, and i'd like to answer it: yes, we have given this a lot of thought, and we are in the process of refining and deepening our thinking even further. the next time, in december, the plenary will vote on my report on space policy. we are tackling these issues there. the commission has made a number of considerations. there is also a report by mr prodi on this subject, on copernicus. how can we ensure that this infrastructure, which we finance with european taxpayers' money, can be operated economically and used to the full, and that above all our smes can have access to the signals and then use the data they generate to make a profit? we have been working on this for many months and i think we will make some concrete proposals during this parliamentary term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all in this house are pursuing the objective set by the commissioner, namely to provide retail investment products with more information in the interests of consumer protection. the concern is undeniable. the draft report presented by mrs berès goes far beyond this by creating a licensing procedure, by including occupational pension provision and by extending the scope far beyond what is sensible and what the commission has proposed. that is why it is necessary that this be decided in plenary and not on the basis of shadow meetings in econ. our group has discussed this matter extensively and we believe that some things must be taken out of the draft report, for example the full inclusion of insurance. there is a proposal for that. we only want to take out insurance where the policyholder bears the risk. but that's only a very small number of insurance companies. the normal insurance case is not covered. we also want to highlight other proposals, for example on liability regimes, authorisation procedures, penalties, the obligation to update regularly - the original draft even included the carbon footprint. these are things that go far beyond the concern and do not help to make the complex products more transparent to the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed in a comprehensive manner. so we want to make a few points.
member of the commission. - mr president, at the end of this brief debate on an important subject, i would like to confirm that i have always wanted - as i already told you, here, at the time of my hearing in january or february 2010 - by all means during this mandate, that we reconcile the single market with small and medium-sized enterprises and with citizens, who have felt so much that this single market was not for them and, in particular, did not protect them properly. we have therefore had this concern and this is the subject of the text you are discussing at the moment. this is also the subject of another text which i like very much on the basic bank account as well as several provisions of the mifid directive on investor protection. that is why i have proposed to create this key information document which should be as short and simple as possible, to be useful to investors when choosing their investments. the decision to invest is a complex one, and that is why the quality of the information preceding that decision must be improved, as has been said by mr panzeri, mr karas, mrs pietikäinen and mr weidenholzer, including on the point, raised by the president, mrs sharon bowles, of the comparability to which investors and consumers are entitled. so i am very pleased to see that you are finalising your negotiating position as from tomorrow's vote. we must continue to work towards a compromise, the most balanced possible. i am convinced that this compromise is indispensable, necessary before the end of your term of office, as mrs berès and mrs bowles have said. there may be differences between the council's position and the one you will adopt, but none are insurmountable and, naturally, the point raised by mr langen, concerning the scope, will be the subject of this compromise, of this discussion. in any case, we will approach it with a view to providing intelligent, balanced but effective protection for all citizens and investors on all products. that is why i thank you for this debate and for the position you will take tomorrow, so that the trilogues can begin as soon as possible, and that is why i also thank your rapporteur, mrs berès.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mrs berès, we've known each other for many years. do you agree with me that a comprehensive product information sheet will deter yield-hungry retail investors who, for example, have invested their money in kaupthing bank in iceland for a 14% return without any risk-weighting? - yes or no? and is that justified?
the rapporteur. - madam president, today, in november 2013, we are concluding a long and complex process which has led us, from the commissioner's presentation in october 2011 to today, to a new common agricultural policy. it has been a long and complex process, with many of the initial proposals being amended during the procedure, some refined, and others confirmed. we have certainly made full use of the new lisbon treaty's provisions on codecision, and as a parliament we have contributed, i believe, in a decisive way to the improvement of the proposal. at the end of this process i think it is essential first of all to thank everyone in parliament and, of course, the council for their cooperation and the commission for the exceptional contribution they have made to bringing this long journey to a conclusion. i should now like to briefly review some of the highlights of my report. we have worked together to define the best way of implementing the common agricultural policy, what the instruments should be. we worked together and came to an agreement on the characteristics of the paying agencies and how they should be recognised. we've tried to keep a consistent guideline throughout the process, which is represented by the word simplification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have concentrated on the issue of sanctions and controls because it is right that, when public resources are used, there should be careful evaluation and control of the use of funds, along with the need to sanction, even severely, those who do not use them appropriately. we have stressed the principle of proportionality in the case of penalties and checks, and we believe that the response to infringements must be proportionate not only to the infringement committed but also to the extent of the delay and the degree of responsibility attributable to the farmer. we have identified the need for a business advisory system, involving public and private actors, which can both accompany the implementation of the reform and support the growth of the agri-food system. we have focused on rules and conditionality, but we have asked that certain directives should become mandatory only after they have been fully implemented in all the member states. we have been discussing greening for a long time: we have reached agreement on the sanctions only at the end, whereas at the initial stage we had considered it sufficient that the 30% cut, and therefore not an additional sanction, but only the greening component, be discussed. today, at the end of the legislative process, a new phase begins. we must be careful in this new phase, commissioner, because we have reached agreement in this parliament on strong principles with a political agreement. today the implementation of delegated acts must be in line with the agreements reached and cannot be a means of going beyond what has been agreed between parliament and the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vote in plenary today completes a cycle which began almost three years ago. i would like to thank all those who have worked on the reform of the agricultural sector in various capacities over the last three years, and i join those who have already expressed their thanks in name. after countless talks, meetings, hearings, negotiations, votes, over 8 000 amendments in the procedure, we have today the final vote on four reform packages and the transitional regime for 2014. parliament has lived up to the responsibilities it received under the lisbon treaties and has made a decisive use of its new right of co-decision. if parliament votes today, our farmers in all 28 eu member states will have planning certainty for the period up to 2020. with one small restriction, commissioner: the final planning certainty will only be achieved once the legal texts are in place and the reform has been implemented in the member states. the commission is currently working on the delegated acts and i call on the commission to stick to the political agreement. anything else would lead us to veto these delegated acts. parliament or the council have that right. we are not going to be fooled, as has been shown in the approaches of the last few days. the epp group is prepared to support the compromises that have been found, albeit with great pain in some points. in particular, i still consider it irresponsible that production has to be reduced on so-called priority areas for arable land, at a time when we are losing at least 80 hectares of agricultural land every day in germany alone. only 25% of the land in the european union is used for agriculture. agricultural land is a precious and scarce commodity. professor dr. von witzke of the humboldt university in berlin is a renowned agricultural scientist. it expects the global food deficit to increase fivefold by 2030. the commission's green paper is therefore anachronistic, that is, it does not fit the times. i am grateful to parliament and the council for having succeeded in changing the commission's proposals so that they are more acceptable. parliament has successfully reduced the much-debated ecological priority areas from the original 7% to 5%. the epp group would also have agreed to 3%. contrary to the commission's proposal, these areas may be used for the cultivation of protein crops or perennial energy crops. certain types of holdings are completely exempted from the greening requirements. i am still not enthusiastic about this solution and i am convinced that in the next election period the pressure will increase to put the priority areas back to a meaningful use. it would have been better to have called for priority areas in the eu where there are real deficits rather than following the principle of 'one can, one day'. we have the most sustainable agriculture in the world in the eu. we must strengthen this agriculture, not harass it! the cap has historically been a mainstay of the european integration process. we have a responsibility to feed over half a billion people, to care for the landscape and to ensure that rural areas remain livable. i would like to say, however, that i expect the epp group to agree today by a large majority to the compromises reached.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the presidency is very pleased that we have been able to reach a political agreement on the cap reform package. we are equally pleased that weak agreement could be found on the transitional arrangements for 2014. we very much look forward to a positive vote in plenary today. we are confident that you will endorse the work undertaken by the three institutions on this landmark reform with a first reading agreement today. the presidency is committed to working towards adoption by the council at its meeting on 16 and 17 december. the cap is a dynamic policy. successive reforms have enabled it to evolve in response to changing circumstances. the cap for 2020 will again be able to address the challenges of the future, helping both our farmers and our citizens across the union. this reform has been challenging. it is the first to involve 28 member states, each with their own farm structures and agronomic conditions, and it is the first under the ordinary legislative procedure. i firmly believe that the result is balanced. we have maintained a robust common eu framework which responds to farmers’ needs. we all know how complex the discussions on the multiannual financial framework have been with the cost and benefit of the future cap coming under close scrutiny – and rightly so. the added value of each euro spent under the cap must fully contribute to the union’s overall objectives. i am also confident that, with the financial resources we have agreed upon for the next period, we can meet the objective of our reform and ensure that the cap will remain a strong policy. this is vital for a sustainable, productive and competitive agriculture sector in the union. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs, mr santos, mr dantin, mr la via, mr deß, and especially to the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr de castro. their commitment and constructive attitude has been instrumental in enabling us to reach agreement. needless to say, our thanks go to commissioner cioloş as well. may i also take this opportunity to thank the four preceding presidencies of the council for all their hard work, in particular the irish presidency. one of the most important achievements of this reform is the greening of farm payments. a significant proportion of farm payments will depend on ecologically friendly farming. our reform also better targets farm payments to those farmers and areas which are most in need of support. we have moved towards a better and more equitable distribution of farm payments across and within the union. these reforms will serve future generations. we should be proud of the efforts we have made, in particular to help our young farmers and to cut red tape for small farmers. the reforms safeguard the integrity of the internal market and recognise the need for a level playing field between our farmers and those outside the eu. however, we are all too aware of the impact of excessive price volatility and the severe market imbalance on our farmers. i am confident that a strengthened safety net of measures will provide additional assistance and assurance to our farmers in times of difficulty. we have the improved the union’s capacity to act quickly and effectively in the event of future crises and have strengthened the position of farmers in the food supply chain. on rural development, we have reshaped our policy to increase effectiveness and to respond better to regional and local needs, at the same time reducing the administrative burden, both for farmers and national administrations. this is the first cap reform decided under the codecision procedure. it is an important moment. it is the outcome of a process in which both our institutions have played a full and important role. the cap will continue to be a vital union policy, allowing us to maintain a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector and a thriving countryside across the union.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the regulations under discussion are the result of the work of three institutions, with - i must emphasize this - a considerable role played by the european parliament, which for the first time is co-legislating a reform of the common agricultural policy. i would like to pay tribute once again to the work that has been done here in this house. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs, mr capoulas santos, mr michel dantin, mr giovanni la via, the non-attached rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr paolo de castro, who played a decisive role, particularly in the conclusion of the negotiations to find a compromise. i also thank mr albert dess for his work on the transitional regulation, which complements the reform work and ensures continuity of this policy in 2014, and for the report he has drawn up following the commission communication which prepared these legislative proposals. i would also like to thank the council, the successive presidencies (polish, danish and cypriot), the irish presidency which has managed to conclude these negotiations with parliament, and the lithuanian presidency, which i hope will be able to complete all this work from a legislative point of view. i believe that we have collectively succeeded in giving a new direction to the common agricultural policy. of course, some would have liked to go further on certain subjects, others - i know - would not have wanted to go so far on other subjects. but it is a work of compromise. as mr capoulas santos has said, a compromise, by definition, cannot be ideal, since everyone must give in on certain points, but it seems to me important to stress that this final reform is the result of the convergence of different points of view. i think it is all the more so because it corresponds to the expectations of the agricultural sector, the rural environment and the european citizens. direct payments will be rebalanced and better targeted. in addition to the internal and external convergence of direct payments, which will make the common agricultural policy fairer, we are putting in place an ambitious policy to support young farmers. i would like to congratulate the european parliament once again on its support for this proposal, which is an investment in the future in connection with the common agricultural policy. in parallel, the european agricultural sector, with the support of the cap, will put in place concrete measures to preserve biodiversity, soil quality, water quality and to combat climate change. with greening, real changes will take place on the ground. again, the aim is to preserve what makes the european agricultural sector rich: efficient ecosystems, in the long term, to ensure the construction of a sustainable competitiveness of european agriculture. i think that this is the way we will solve the problem of food security, with sustainable agriculture, and not by depleting the resources we have. we are also initiating a new approach to market organization, as michel dantin has mentioned. the management of the markets will no longer be geared towards brussels, towards administrative decisions taken in brussels, but towards farmers and farmers' organizations of an economic nature, which will have much more weight in the decisions on how to adapt the functioning of the markets, according to the realities. after several previous reforms, which eliminated market mechanisms, some of which are outdated, we will strengthen the toolbox for this market management. we propose new measures, adapted to the times and to the realities of today. it is the position of farmers in the food chain that we are going to strengthen through producer organisations and inter-branch organisations. i think it is essential to encourage farmers to take advantage of the new tools at their disposal, particularly in certain sectors such as cereals, beef, olive oil, milk and of course wine. it is in this spirit of empowerment of the sectors and the actors that i think it is necessary to continue thinking about the dairy sector, given its specific nature and its importance for many territories. the new common organization of the market includes an emergency clause. i think we need to be more specific about how we will use this clause in a major crisis. this is a task we must carry out together, particularly in the context of the process of reflection launched by the milk conference in september. we shall probably have an opportunity to return to this point when the commission presents its final report on this conference. the reform will also boost rural development. we are putting an end to the rigidity of the axes for a more effective strategic approach for our territories. in addition to a large, clearly defined allocation for the good management of natural resources and support for rural areas in difficulty, i would stress the new tools available to member states and regions, in particular the european innovation partnership, enhanced cooperation measures to encourage local initiatives, the whole range of measures promoting social inclusion in rural areas, the relaunch of sectors in difficulty, which could be carried out through specific targeted sub-programmes under the rural development programme, entrepreneurship or the development of short marketing circuits and the promotion of agri-food diversity on the market. all this is to ensure that the 2014-2020 programmes are rich, adapted to the diversity of our regions and at the service of growth and employment. i would add that with the horizontal regulation we have done a substantial job of increasing the transparency of the common agricultural policy and, as giovanni la via said, of promoting efficient management for all the cap instruments, both the first and the second pillar, as well as a major simplification effort without diluting the consistency of the cap instruments. you will also be speaking today on the transitional regulation which has just completed the reform package and which will ensure the transitional continuity of certain support measures without having to interrupt certain measures pending the entry into force of the new common agricultural policy. of course, as you have said, the work is not yet technically complete. the commission has made every effort in recent months to submit the delegated acts as soon as possible. a first version was discussed. i have heard the requests for amendments which have been made on a number of points. the european parliament will also be consulted in this process to clarify any points which may raise doubts in relation to the political agreement and what you will be voting on today. the spirit of these delegated acts is by no means to reopen political discussions but, on the contrary, to implement the compromise in full, with a number of important details. i can say this and i hereby pledge it to you: work will continue in a transparent manner, including with parliament, and even before the commission submits its proposals for delegated acts to parliament, the normal consultation procedure for these two months. even before this presentation, we have opened consultation, including with you, and as i said yesterday to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, if necessary, the commission is prepared to organise a specific consultation and a specific presentation to parliament on what we intend to include in the delegated acts, in line with the political agreement we have reached together. the adjusted texts will be presented to take account of the concerns that have been expressed in recent days. i am sure that with this stage of the delegated acts we will complete the last stage to ensure the implementation of this reform and that the member states can take the final decisions and see the fruit of the work we have done together reflected on the ground.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to be honest. i find it difficult to assess the reform. the commission has put forward a draft which i do not like. but it is also true that we in the european parliament, the members of the committee on agriculture, were not able to improve this draft substantially. in this sense, the commissioner's draft law reflects exactly the mood of parliament. on the other hand, we have shared our political responsibility. we have completed the reform on time. this gives our farmers the security of planning. we have made the cuts in the agricultural budget bearable, we have made the changes bearable for the farmers. but we have not answered the question of the european agricultural policy, the question of where european agriculture should be developed. but this question is ours. so let's use the time after the election to start a strategic debate. after reform is before reform. where are we going with the cap? i'm ready for this debate. there's still a lot to do. let's get to it.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. from the point of view of the committee of the regions, i can look at the result with a tearful and a laughing eye. it is disappointing that there is so little money available for rural development. it really takes more than that. on the other hand, it is positive that there is a minimum quota of 30% for the restoration of ecosystems and nature conservation and organic farming, because these are important pillars of rural tourism. because where nature is intact, tourists are drawn to it. and the people in the villages can benefit from that. it is also positive that the urban-rural relationship has been brought back into the regulation because it is important to secure rural supply through small towns as anchor points and on the other hand to ensure local marketing in small towns. on the positive side, leader and the local action groups can take the opportunity to use all the funds for themselves. i would caution against making more distinctions in the implementation of this directive, because that would be to the detriment of rural areas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i must say first of all that i cannot understand why president schulz is refusing to allow us to vote on other important points today. we must protest vigorously once again! but to the thing itself. i must now expressly support the commissioner and commend him for his proposals. he has taken the right path: public money for public services, greening and capping. these were all new elements that we explicitly supported. what has become of it in reality? you just have to listen to albert deess, who tried to cut down this exact right path at the end so that there is not much left and you really have to say that this is more green washing than actually a greening. ecological priority areas: 5% of the area without chemicals, that's too much for the conservatives. have you ever heard of biodiversity, of climate change? that's too short! and that you can grow only one type of fruit on 70% of the land, that's not really greening either. there are good approaches to legumes, and we expressly appreciate that, but that is not enough! but with many exceptions, all of that can be broken. so the question is, in a few years, do you really see a change out there in agriculture, in the land? i hope very much that this is not watered down any further. i would like to say, of course, that the main objective of this reform was to put a stop to the large companies. who broke this? germany was far ahead of the game as the protector of big business. there were the conservatives who said: the large structures are more the future, we must not damage them. no, the small farmers - look at the world agricultural report - are the future of agriculture, not the large structures which end up rationalising jobs instead of creating them. it is now up to the member states to redistribute the profits to smaller farms. i am curious to see what the reality is, how many small businesses actually get more money. we still have liberalisation. milk was told that there should have been a clear signal that we needed market regulation after the quota was gone. unfortunately, we have not done so, and that is a big mistake in this reform. and we have achieved something in the wine sector, and i must say this explicitly, namely that this market order is preserved. but the commission must also make it clear whether it is moving towards liberalization or rather towards clear market rules. the course is very uncertain. we agree with the second pillar because i believe that we have now reached the point where 30% of the funds for agri-environmental measures are actually committed. unfortunately, the second pillar of financial provision has fallen behind. that has to be said very clearly. but that they are then allowed to transfer 25% of the funds from the second to the first pillar at the insistence of the council - that is an outrage, we will not play along with it! i think if you really look at it, this reform is a small step in the right direction. it is not enough and we hope that the review will really enable us to take more decisive steps. and we say in large part: we are not satisfied, but we hope! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. george, you must have misunderstood something! i said 5%, not 10%. but the fact that you are still diluting it at 5% and not even enforcing a chemical ban, that is the crucial point, where you have to say, the smallest step will be broken. and if you want to achieve something ecologically, that's the minimum requirement, and we've fought hard to start at 5 percent and go to 7 percent. all the environmental organizations say that's the only way to do something about biodiversity and the environment. i do not understand why this is being attacked and why the fight against ecological approaches is suddenly being put at the centre of this debate. agriculture should contribute that much to the protection of the environment!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what kind of agriculture do we want? we talk all the time about the demands we are making on agriculture, and we fail to see that our farmers have been able to meet many of them in recent years. they were able to produce more and more with less and less of what we demanded. but we don't thank them, we invent new rules, new regulations, new regulations, because at the desk you know better how to do practical farming. this cannot be what comes out of the reform, but it does! the result is a theoretical framework which prescribes how and in what way production should be carried out. we do not trust our farmers to find this path as entrepreneurs themselves. they need entrepreneurial freedom, which we take away wherever possible. so whether it's in the first pillar, where we stuff greening into it, by saying, we know better how to manage your land, we don't trust you to have an interest in preserving the environment, in doing sustainable business, and in being there for the next generation. it can't be! it cannot be the signal of european agricultural policy that we keep imposing new requirements on the entrepreneurs who are supposed to operate on the market and who are now expected to earn their income on the global market, and tell them how we know better from behind our desks. it can't be! yes, society has its demands. but perhaps we also need to tell society that the requirements cannot always be realized only in the market, but that the requirements that go beyond the market are also - please - paid for by society personally. we must also return to an honest discussion, not a wishful thinking debate, in which we turn a common agricultural policy into a national agricultural policy, where everyone does what he wants, and then leave the single market we wanted. that cannot be the aim of agricultural policy, and we cannot advocate that here today!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. public money for public goods, that must be our goal! have we achieved that? in the first pillar, payments are still distributed on a per-glass basis and are not really linked to environmental performance. there are many exceptions to the greening. with imagination and skill, the greening can be done. the commission has proposed 7% ecological priority areas. the remaining 5% is used for pesticides and fertilisers. these are definitely not ecological priority areas. the list of linked payments has been further extended. export subsidies are available in times of crisis, but no one knows when they are, because crisis is not defined at all. the majority of this parliament has supported the capping of direct payments. we wanted to use the money from the cap to strengthen the rural area. the council, and at the head of the movement the german federal government, voted massively against capping. it's a pity and nobody in the countryside can tell you. only the good report on rural development by mr capoulas santos has prevented worse. thank you for that. my conclusion: the goal of public money for public goods has not been achieved!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked hard on this mammoth project for almost three years. this reform is a paradigm shift in european agricultural history and, despite all the criticism, it is the right step! parliament has really improved the commission's proposals. yes, we have compromises, but we have strong positions. it is not only right from my point of view that we have for the first time been able to achieve a greater degree of support for small and mediumsized enterprises. this, together with the good results in the second pillar, is strengthening rural areas. there are prospects here. rural areas and thus rural people are now increasingly in the spotlight. the above points show that agricultural policy has taken a new direction. we have less money, we have to use it in a targeted way, and we have set the course for that. we have found a solution with the results, which shows a clear line. at the same time, there is room for specific circumstances in the member states. i have two expectations. firstly, we have taken on the demands of society, and that should pay off. secondly, commissioner, the cooperation so far has been excellent! thank you, thank you! the delegated acts should now also meet our political objectives. i don't want any surprises here. thank you in advance. good for you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. finally, a consensus was reached on the future of the common agricultural policy. european farmers now have planning security. thank you all for your hard work! however, this is not the time to just sing a hymn of praise. now is the time for implementation, and there is still much to be done. i am not satisfied with the number of delegated acts. there are still too many unanswered questions. it is not possible for the commission to undermine political decisions already taken through the back door and in the hauruck procedure, so to speak, and to make its own interpretations. i have always been against the inclusion of the wine market organization in the general cap. it's all getting too confusing. but it is not possible for important and necessary rules in the wine sector to be overlapped by other measures. the delegated acts on the new authorisation system for vine plantings from 2016 should be adopted by the current european parliament. we have also decided on the political basis of the new rules. the commission is not aware that there is still a need for regional implementation at national level. we as a parliament will not allow ourselves to be put under pressure by the commission in the end, just to then allow for a rapid national implementation. the good cooperation must continue to the end. in conclusion, i am confident that european farmers will continue to manage their land sustainably, because they know that this is the only way to ensure their future and ours.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall not waste my time, especially since many of those to whom i wished to reply are no longer here and have left the chamber. i would like to make a few points which have been repeatedly made in your speeches. firstly, on the delegated acts, mrs lulling goes so far as to speak of abuse by the commission, even though these texts have not yet been submitted for inter-service consultation within the commission, and we have already held consultations with the experts of the member states, in which representatives of your departments in parliament have also participated. this was only the first of a series of consultations, from which we will present, in a few days' time, revised working texts, still informally. there will also be a new round of consultations before the other commissioners in the college are consulted on the texts which the commission will have to adopt. i therefore think that to speak of abuse by the commission, even though we are in the consultation phase prior to the adoption of the text and, as you know, once the commission has adopted this text, parliament will have two formal months to be able to express its views, without waiting for the expiry of this two-month period to open consultations, is going a little too far. it seems to me that the present commission has been more open to parliament than ever before throughout this process of preparing the negotiations on this reform, and i can assure you all, as i did in my speech, that we will do so to the end. very concretely - i said this yesterday to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr de castro - although the procedure does not provide for this - because we have consultations with experts from the member states in which parliament's representatives can take part - i am prepared to organise a specific information meeting for parliament, with the participation, if you wish, of members of the committee on agriculture and rural development or your experts, in order to discuss concretely the concerns that still arise from the political agreement we have obtained. we have no intention of going beyond this political agreement, but at the same time we need to clarify certain things, because that is the role of the commission. the commission will simply play its part with full transparency and honesty, as it has done so far. in this respect i can assure mr agnew that neither he nor the uk experts will have to go and inspect the sheep's bellies in order to decide the amount of payments to be granted. i can give you a formal assurance. some of you also spoke of the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy, and in the process of drawing up the reform proposal i received a great many requests from parliament and from members of parliament, particularly for more flexibility so that the specific features of their region and constituency could be reflected in the reform. it is the same institution that i hear say that this is a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. however, we have presented fairer direct payments, given that at present, with this policy, which some claim is common, there are differences of between one and thirty in the levels of payments. we have established common rules for the accommodation of young people. we also have common rules on greening and the functioning of markets. many things which were not in the current common agricultural policy are now decided at european level and there is talk of renationalisation! it is also interesting to note that those who are in favour of a common policy would in fact like the common policy to be defined according to rules which they themselves would like to see applied or which are best suited to their desires. but we are in a european union of 28 member states and dozens of regions have their own specificities in agriculture. it seems to me that this diversity which characterizes agriculture and rural areas is a richness, and that the common agricultural policy must make it possible to exploit this richness and this diversity. it seems to me that it is in our economic, social and political interests not to destroy this diversity, not to standardize it, but rather to promote it. it is in this spirit that i ask you to consider the flexibility we have left to the member states. it is not a question of renationalizing the policy, which must remain common, but of enabling us to achieve common objectives, with the contribution of each region and each type of agriculture. mr messerschmidt, who is no longer here, spoke of the excessive amounts allocated to the common agricultural policy, he spoke of this before he left the chamber, when we are less than 0.5% of european gross domestic product devoted to the agricultural sector, which not only provides europe with food but is also one of the main export lines for all industries. the european agri-food industry not only maintains 70% of europe's territory, rural areas and forests, but also creates jobs and enables us to meet the expectations of european taxpayers, with - i remind you - only 0.5% of europe's gross domestic product. i would also like the common agricultural policy to represent a smaller percentage of the european budget, but to achieve this we would have to double, triple the european budget in order to be able to finance other common policies, and not destroy or reduce this policy, which has been common for five decades now and which has never ceased to deliver results and to adapt to the expectations of the european taxpayers. in conclusion, i would like to say that what we have now on the table is perhaps not perfect from the point of view of everyone in this room, but it is the result of a positive compromise. i would also like to add - as someone has said here - that the reformed common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 would probably have been different without the involvement of the european parliament. i thank you for the difference you have made and for the contribution you have made to the common agricultural policy proposed by the commission. we now have a text which - i am sure - is much closer to what citizens and farmers expect. i thank you again and hope that your vote will confirm all the work we have been doing for many years now.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, we are convinced that this reform package strikes the best possible balance on the important policy issues we face for the years ahead. it will make a significant contribution to the 2020 objectives of green, smart and inclusive growth. this new cap is vital for the european agricultural sector. it is more important than ever before that we continue producing good-quality, safe food while preserving our national resources. i strongly believe our reform policy will give a boost to our rural areas and provide great benefits for all european citizens. i have heard many of you raising three issues: greening, capping and delegated acts. on greening, the introduction of a 30 % greening component for first-pillar farm payments has been a huge challenge in this reform, and i am convinced that greening will provide a strong incentive to enhance the contribution of farmers to the eu’s environmental and climate goals while at the same time ensuring the long-term sustainability of european agriculture. on the issue of the capping of direct payments, i believe our institutions have found a good compromise that is consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. on the preparation of the delegated acts in this particular area, may i say that the institution i represent is sympathetic to the many concerns expressed by many members of this chamber. the conclusion of our agreement on this reform marks a great achievement for the eu and for our citizens, and we as the presidency very much look forward to a successful outcome to the vote today.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's debate has been a useful conclusion to a long and complex process, during which we have sometimes been led, in order to reach compromises, to set aside some of parliament's priorities. the compromise, as always, satisfies everyone to a large extent, but does not leave everyone fully satisfied. i hope that this parliament will confirm the agreement reached today and that is why i call on all members to reject the amendments tabled which would prevent the process from being concluded today. it is important that i, as rapporteur, urge everyone to vote to close the procedure and to ensure that for the first time the common agricultural policy is decided by co-decision between parliament and the council, with the indispensable technical support of the commission. i should like to thank all those in parliament who supported us and worked with us to achieve this agreement, as well as the council, which worked and cooperated with the successive presidencies, and the commission and commissioner cioloş for their help, including technical help, in reaching the compromise and agreement on which we are going to vote today. a final note on the delegated acts: it's clearly a new way of doing things, which we've all been a little nervous about. it is clear that this is a process which we must start correctly between the institutions. we take note of the commissioner's clarification, which is in the right direction, and we are confident that we can cooperate with him, as a parliament, to achieve a better implementation of this agricultural policy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i am glad that we have had this debate. the differences have been revealed, but it has been realised that we are all interested in achieving a sensible agricultural policy by 2020. i did not have time to discuss the transitional arrangements at the beginning. i would like to thank the commission, the lithuanian presidency and all the colleagues and shadow rapporteurs who have helped us to achieve a sensible transitional arrangement. i am convinced that the programmes can be continued here and that there will be no break in the agricultural policy, because the rest of the agricultural policy can be largely implemented only in 2015. i would like to reject the allegations made by certain colleagues that those who are critical of greening - and in particular of this priority area scheme - are opposed to more biodiversity. no, on the contrary! i'm worried we'll have less afterwards. my son runs a farm of 40 acres. we have 10 acres of environmental measures now. if we are forced to give up two hectares of priority land, then that's not a problem. we will take the remaining 8 hectares out of the environmental programme and intensify production there so that we can balance these 2 hectares and thus, in the end, also restore the company's economic results. so we'll have less biodiversity on our farm, but we'll be following the greening requirements. i do not imagine that in the future, we will be able to reduce biodiversity by harassing it. i am very curious to see how this works in practice. i hope that farmers will cope with this and that we can now do this together in the implementation. thank you, commissioner, for making it so clear that you will include us in the delegated acts.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. today is a very special day for our parliament for two reasons: we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the sakharov prize today with lord plumb, who was the first president of the european parliament to award it, and with the 22 sakharov prize winners who have taken their seats in the centre of the chamber. i would be grateful if you would rise for a moment to honour our colleagues and the laureates who are here below - and there are also colleagues, heads of government in office, whom i warmly welcome - and to honour our sakharov prize winners of recent years. welcome, ladies and gentlemen. this is the first time we've had a chance to meet. (parliament adopted the resolution) thank you for this great gesture. but we must applaud in a special way those prizewinners who cannot be with us today because they are under house arrest or because they are in prison. we are certainly thinking of the laureates of previous years who have passed away. today is a very important day for the european parliament: the 25th sakharov prize, which we are awarding to a survivor, to a heroine, to an extraordinary young woman, for her commitment to the right to education: malala yousafzai. (applause from the centre) i'd like to invite you to watch a short video to get to know our award-winning artist a little better. (video shown on the screens) dear malala, we are grateful and happy that you survived the cowardly assassination attempt and have recovered thanks to excellent doctors in pakistan and england. we are very happy to see that you are feeling better. i read a sentence in your book "i am malala" that made a deep impression on me. and i quote him: "i don't want to be known as the girl who was shot by the taliban, but as the girl who fights for education. this is what i want to do with my life". so much for the quote. you are a curious young woman of 16 years; you are now -- you could say that -- already a global icon in the fight for the right to education. you are a symbol of resistance to fanaticism. you have started a global movement for children's rights. with your courage, your humility and your wisdom, you have touched us all deeply. and this is only the beginning of your already unusual life path. i am sure we will hear a lot from you, and we have already learned a lot from you. i also remember another of your statements that made a deep impression on me. you said that you wouldn't have become the malala you are today if you had grown up in a different family. her father, ziauddin yousafzai, himself a teacher, has always publicly stood up for his beliefs, at great risk to his own life, that girls and boys are equally valuable and have the right to go to school. your father was the first to break the silence to draw attention to the destruction of schools by the taliban in your home country of pakistan's swat valley. your father encouraged you, when you were a girl of 11 or 12, to write a blog under a pseudonym for the bbc about life under taliban rule, he encouraged you to give interviews and protest against the fanatical taliban barring little girls from going to school. what this father did with his daughter differently than others was asked of you, mr. yousafzai, in an interview the other day. "what did you do differently than other fathers? and you said, "nothing. i didn't do anything special differently". he didn't lock her up, but he gave her the freedom a young girl needs. he said, "i didn't give her wings, she's gonna fly, from me to the stars". those are remarkable words from a man to be admired. malala, i'm sure you're as proud of your father as he is of you. (applause from the centre) on 12 july, at the united nations, you made a passionate appeal to us: 'one teacher, one book and one pen can change the world!' you said that in front of the united nations. at just 16 years old, you remind us of a fundamental truth: education and knowledge are the best investments a society can make, the best weapons in the fight against intolerance, violence and poverty. today's award of the sakharov prize to malala is a call to action for all of us: the call to fight for the right to education for boys and girls worldwide. more than 125 million children and youth worldwide do not have access to education, and three quarters of them are girls! it's a shame for all of us, a shame that in the 21st century there are still children who don't know what they're going to eat tomorrow, children who have to work hard instead of being able to learn. children who risk their lives to go to school, children who are murdered for going to school. education is not a privilege, education is a fundamental right of all people! universal access to education - for boys as well as girls - is the key to a more equitable and prosperous society. today, on world children's day, we, the european parliament, therefore, in accordance with the european manifesto adopted today, want to make a binding commitment to defend and protect the right to education worldwide. malala, you have given a voice to millions of children and adolescent young women. you have given hope to millions of children and girls. they have a dream: every boy, every girl can go to school for free in every country, in every city, in every village in the world. i think it is our responsibility, indeed our duty, to make sure that this dream becomes a reality. it is a great pleasure for me and a great honour for all of us in this parliament to present to you today, on behalf of the european parliament, the 25th sakharov prize in recognition of your fight for the right of children to education in pakistan and around the world. it is an extraordinary, an honorable day for us that you have accepted this award. i'm very happy for you. (parliament adopted the resolution)
ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to add! i think it was a wonderful speech, thank you very much! i think that was an extraordinary moment for all of us in this parliament. i want to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, but i think i speak for all of you when i say to malala, that was a really big speech. thank you very much for that. i now wish you, ladies and gentlemen, a successful vote and i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to join us. we're about to have another meeting. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) (the formal sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.)
i have to say, madam president, i would say that this is a moderate scandal, the way you conducted the meeting! (applause and cheers) my group tried to table an oral amendment, which was rejected. if berès's motion is suddenly accepted, the motion which is still being tabled, then our oral amendment must also be accepted! (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) but that it could even be put here, that's a completely hands-free management you do here!
i have to say, madam president, i just have one request for the services. the rules of procedure provide that we shall have rollcall votes in cases of special importance. i understand that the green colleagues have a problem with the report. that does not mean that every vote by a margin is particularly important. i would ask the services to look into this more seriously!
the commission has already done so. we have three oral amendments in the vote now, and i shall explain them to you in advance so that we do not have to interrupt the vote. the amendments are purely technical. two are linguistic changes following the votes in committee and the third proposal is to remove the word 'brussels' from an amendment, in agreement with the rapporteur, in order to preserve the basic nature of this report, namely that we do not comment on brussels or strasbourg. the report is open to all members of the house, regardless of the seat and the places of work of parliament they are advocating. the european parliament's right to decide on this issue in future is at stake, and it is no longer treated as an authority subordinate to european governments and sent around europe.
i have to say, madam president, while strasbourg is the only seat of the european parliament with the most valuable thing that european integration has - and it cannot be separated from it - the agencies scattered all over europe are absolute nonsense - especially the fundamental rights agency in vienna, which is doing double work with the parliament, the council of europe and many others! that is why i am in favour of strengthening strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament, but abolishing the many agencies and leaving their work to the normal institutions of the european union!
i have to say, madam president, i believe that europe urgently needs its technological sovereignty in order to play an equal role in the world and not to lose its scientific and economic future. and here galileo is a project that is absolutely central. and we should make it clear that we are serious about this project, so that it does not become a sort of fata morgana wandering in the desert before us. i am quite clear that a great statesman like franz josef strauss, with the airbus and the space and aerospace technology of his day, created a european project without which we would have an american monopoly today. we should also be demanding more of europe in the field of technological sovereignty.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the framework regulation for all the european funds because it was a good compromise. i would like to give you a few examples of why i voted in favour of the report: the first is that we have been able to win through the trilogue, the legislative procedure is being carried out in the ordinary legislative procedure and not as a delegated act, as was originally planned. the important and significant improvement is that the vat which is not refunded in the countries is eligible in the future, which is a huge step forward! macroeconomic conditionality is a very critical point. i think that anyone who reads the final wording carefully will know that we have found a good compromise between the possibilities of the countries in difficulty. no country in economic difficulties will be put at a disadvantage!
in writing. − we have just voted on the european social fund's share of the cohesion fund for the years 2014 to 2020. the committee on employment and social affairs has recognised the excellent work of my epp colleague elisabeth morin-chartier and yesterday supported her negotiating result with 37 votes in favour, none against and three abstentions. the esf is to have a weighting of 25% in relation to the cohesion fund, which is higher than the 23.1% reached in the compromise with the council. it is good to see that access to esf funds is being facilitated, with 20% allocated to vocational integration and a further 20% to the fight against poverty. i would remind you of the 6 billion euro in emergency aid to combat youth unemployment! we europeans help by concrete action, not just by kind words. in addition, there is a programme for employment and social innovation, as well as financial support for business start-ups to create sustainable jobs. finally, the european youth guarantee is of considerable importance, which is intended to provide more training and jobs in public and private enterprises. now eu member states must mobilise their own funds to make a meaningful contribution to the package. i hope that young people, but also women, older workers and the longterm unemployed will personally benefit from the european added value.
in writing. - i voted for the report by evelyn regner and rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou because the new rules represent a great success for women and are an important step towards the long overdue equality of women in management positions. the increase in the proportion of women in supervisory boards of listed companies to 40 per cent is to be achieved by 2020. i very much welcome the derogating rules for small and mediumsized enterprises!
i have to say, madam president, the distribution of posts parliament has only one seat, strasbourg, read the treaty! costs 7 to 12 cents per eu citizen. that's less than the queen costs every brit. i am, however, in favour of saving that by concentrating entirely on strasbourg. you could do that without changing the contract. we do not even have a plenary session in brussels, the old one is broken and is not suitable for a permanent plenary session. the real plan is to build a new plenary hall in brussels, which will cost more than 1 billion euros, although we have a perfect one here in strasbourg. and that's called saving! it is a question of the right of parliament. it is precisely those members who do not want to give parliament any rights at all who are suddenly discovering their heart for parliamentary rights. i thought the alarm bells were supposed to go off. it is simply a hypocrite who is acting for certain reasons which are really very transparent. all over the world, constitutional lawmakers decide on capital issues. the eu's constitutional authority is the states. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the very people who are making brussels an enemy are the ones who want to concentrate everything in brussels. you know what they're trying to do, and you're upset.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start by highlighting that, despite all the sometimes tough discussions on horizon 2020, one thing has been at the forefront: the commission had presented the long-awaited, more effective and faster legislative proposal, which was geared to innovation, simplification and simplification. we want to emphasize this because parliament has always been in principle behind this ambitious proposal from the commission. it is important to emphasize once again that this is also a turning point in european aid programmes, because it is a new, important and above all economic growth-related aspect of europe that is being put forward. we must also say here - and i am addressing this to the council - that we have failed to do two things with the budget for the european research programme. we have for the first time a research framework programme where we actually have no financial growth in terms of the additional instruments and so on. and we have failed - even more politically problematic - to meet the european community's major objective, as set out jointly by the heads of state and government and the three institutions, of spending 3% of gdp on research and development by 2020. we are living in a time of economic, fiscal and budgetary constraints. but it must be made clear that parliament's demand to achieve this 3% with a budget of eur 100 billion was not about spending more money unilaterally, but about setting priorities, which the council was unfortunately unable to do, which is all the more surprising because this is actually the basis of the joint decisions and the 2020 strategy of the european union. the point to be made, and i must make it clear again, is that, in addition to the absolute amount, one of the intentions of parliament, which was then supported by the other two institutions, was that we should build this important bridge to the structural funds in order to create a certain financial balance in order to extend the impact of the horizon 2020 instrument. we will also make available funds for research and development in europe through the structural funds in the future, and we will make these funds binding on the structural funds. so this bridge may be a compensation for the missed 2020 target, but it must be said quite clearly that it is one of europe's failures that we have failed to achieve our own targets. what parliamentary initiatives should i highlight? we have been dealing with some very basic issues. we have been talking for 20 years about the participation of innovative smes in research in europe. it was a verbal admission, we had percentage barriers, it was emphasized again and again, but ultimately we didn't achieve that in any program. and so one of the core objectives of the programme, not from a programme perspective but from an economic perspective, was to ensure that there was a separate programme for smes a separate innovation programme. i think that is one of the great successes of the fact that there is now a budget, a structure and that the vast reserves of innovation in this area can be tapped through european funding. we have dealt with a second issue: it cannot be hidden that we have an imbalance in the use of resources. we have the stronger industrial countries in europe, but we also have the candidate countries. and we have always had a disproportion in the past programmes, we were concerned about the participation of the less favoured regions in europe. we wanted a regional approach, not a discriminatory one, so that the less-favoured regions could also benefit from these funds and use them as an instrument for innovation and growth. i believe that parliament has made a substantial contribution to the process of european unification and understanding on this issue. the widening instrument has not been a question of excellence, but we have created instruments which are basically seeking balance in europe. and let me address one last point that was important to us: speed. a faster time to grant here we take the commission into account but also fast track procedures so that you do bottom-up research in europe were key objectives. i think we've developed some tools together. and in that respect, it can be said that this will certainly be the most innovative research programme in europe!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for mentioning the shadow reporters. i'm one of the shadow reporters. we have the important task, in view of the vote tomorrow, of making sure that all that we have discussed in the last few months is carried out in a positive way. with horizon 2020, we are creating an attractive framework for the approximately 250 000 researchers in the union to develop their excellent skills. as we look to the growing region of asia, let us not forget one important fact: with our population of some 500 million in the european union, we are now less than 7% of the world's population. small people, big impact! that's what you say, and we can do that if we stand out through innovation and technological leadership. and for this we must pool our forces in europe and not retreat to a few lighthouses. for the first time, horizon 2020 has addressed the neglected regions in a targeted way. we need to harness this potential, and i am confident that our new tools for widening participation are the right levers to do so. to remain internationally competitive, we must be able to stop the emigration of scientists. we cannot afford to have our best people turn their backs on europe and migrate to other, more attractive regions of the world. we need excellent researchers and we need sufficient money! 3% of gdp must be spent on research and development - this is what we have set as our target in the europe 2020 strategy. but we are still a long way off, at about 1.9%. our research framework programme is the largest of its kind in the world, but that is no reason to sit back. on the contrary! even in times of crisis, or perhaps even in times of crisis, member states are called upon to implement at national level the 3% target for investment in research and development under strategy 2020 because this is what creates the conditions for growth that can lead to a long-term exit from the crisis. horizon 2020, which we can now launch in time for january, will be reviewed in the mid-term review at the end of 2017, and we will see if the new instruments work in terms of simplification, of major simplification, and if they achieve the success we have envisioned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. parliament can be proud to adopt horizon 2020, the most important crossborder research and innovation programme in the world, tomorrow. small and mediumsized enterprises are the best guarantors of innovation. it is therefore important that smes receive more support in the future, from conception to development and marketing of innovative products. we can only point out that of the 77 billion euros, at least 9.3 billion euros will go to smes. this includes both direct payments and the provision of favourable venture capital. as rapporteur for cosme, it is particularly important to me that horizon 2020 ensures a seamless supply of venture capital to smes through credit guarantees, whether they are innovative or not. we have also successfully used the sme instrument to introduce a simplified support system specifically for smes with a dedicated budget of eur 3.2 billion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by thanking and praising our rapporteurs, in particular dr ehler, maria carvalho and teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the many colleagues who have worked hard over many months of tough, long negotiations and have managed to negotiate a very good research framework programme. this programme will benefit our universities and research institutes in europe and our businesses. it is an excellent basis for more investment in research and development and thus for investment in our future. we had originally asked for hundreds of billions of euros - we all know that this did not happen - and now we have decided on 70.2 billion euros. i think that in view of the reduction in the general budget, we can be satisfied with this research budget in the end. i particularly welcome the simplification of the application and processing of applications which is being proposed. i think it is particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises, which simply do not have the same manpower as large companies, to benefit from participating in the framework programme. i also welcome the fact that 20% of the funding is reserved for small and mediumsized enterprises and that a higher rate of financing is provided for market-oriented activities. i'd welcome many more, but my time is up. i would like to congratulate you all again and thank you for the excellent work you have done and for the good cooperation you have had with the commission. i believe that if we adopt the programme tomorrow in this way, we will lay the foundations for investment in education, in the future of our universities, in the future of our young people, and that is exactly what europe needs at the moment!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. adequate funding of research activities is crucial to the competitiveness of european industry. this applies to research establishments and, in particular, to the companies themselves. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by smes. it starts with easier access to research programmes and ends with venture capital. this must continue in the future, especially with the new sme instrument. the innovation in horizon 2020 must also be used to further strengthen our industrial leadership, for example in the field of key technologies. i would like to stress the possibility of combining funds from the framework programme and the structural funds in the future. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. if we can now simplify the application process, that would be a really positive signal from europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. perhaps to clarify two issues which will be on the agenda again tomorrow. on the subject of stem cells, i, as a representative of the european people's party with a deeply christian background, support the compromise reached. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also glad that part of the compromise is the commissioner's statement that not everything that is allowed in the member states is allowed, but that there are still very strict ethical criteria at the level of the decision-making process of the european union. the second point on israel: i would like to make it clear again that horizon 2020 is not the venue for an israeli discussion, but what we have done in all seriousness is that the international dimension is accompanied by the question of the extent to which international legal standards and un resolutions are also being respected. we have put emphasis on this, and it is laid down in the law. the fact that the issue of israel is taken seriously by all the parties involved, including the commission, is shown by the fact that during the accession negotiations or for these association negotiations there is a guideline, which is also referred to in the legal text. but as i said, it's not an anti-israel discussion, it's a reference to international legal standards and un resolutions. the third point - and this seems to me to be important for the future - is that parliament was prepared to allow the commission the necessary flexibility. this is a research and innovation programme, it's not static. you can be wrong. we just can't let them get away with it for too long, we have to be fast, we have to be adaptable. so i'm glad that we have experimentation clauses, flexibility, a midterm review. and we should all take this seriously together, to adapt, improve or sharpen the instruments accordingly! i would like to add one last thought, which i believe is also politically important: horizon 2020 is taking place in a context where this programme is not just a 29th research programme, as an alternative to the 28 national ones, but it is taking place in a global context, where we must be aware that even the large member states of the european union are no longer competitive on their own when it comes to research and innovation. this is a step towards the european research area, an important step, and we cannot go back to the level of the nation states. we need each other, we have to share the risks, but we also have to face the risks together. in this respect, i believe that it is also an important contribution to the european research area, and we should make sure of that, especially at a time when many people are doubting the european institutions. this is an opportunity for europe and an opportunity for the european citizens!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this dossier, in particular the commission, but also the council and my colleagues the shadow rapporteurs. the time has finally come: after a hard struggle, agreement on the multiannual financial framework is on the table and we can vote on the european union's support programmes for the next seven years. as rapporteur for the new cosme programme, i am satisfied with the overall result achieved. cosme will contribute eur 2.3 billion by 2020 to boost the competitiveness of our enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). it is the first and only european union programme specifically designed for smes. it was important to us that the four priorities from the 2011 revision of the small business act, which was entitled 'leading the way for smes', were also reflected in the specific objectives of the cosme programme: first, smart regulation and red tape reduction; second, access to finance; third, access to markets; and fourth, strengthening entrepreneurship. we have reached the conclusion that this programme will make an important contribution to reducing unnecessary red tape and regulation. in particular, cosme will finance the implementation of impact assessments on draft legislation and the review of existing legislation with regard to smes. the programme also aims to help ensure that the impact on smes is taken into account by legislators at all levels. we have set concrete targets for cutting red tape by 2020: the aim is to reduce the cost and time of setting up a business and obtaining the necessary licences in the meantime. the most pressing problem for many companies is the lack of liquidity. that is why we have insisted that 60% of the budget, or about eur 1.4 billion, be used to provide risk finance in the form of debt and equity. in principle, all smes with growth potential are supported in their start-up, growth and business transfers. unfortunately, in the course of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, cosme was also cut by some eur 300 million. this was beyond our power. but at least we have managed to get future repayments from the existing sme equity facility under cosme reinvested in fresh venture capital. this could add another 100 to 200 million to the budget. many smes could grow enormously if they took better advantage of business opportunities in the european single market and also worldwide. cosme promotes the internationalisation of smes through a number of instruments. the focus is on the placement and consultancy services of the enterprise europe network. with over 600 partners, it is the world's largest network of companies. the enterprise europe network has enormous potential, but is still too little known. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, cosme is intended to contribute to strengthening entrepreneurship and the culture of entrepreneurship in the european union. in particular, the conditions for young entrepreneurs need to be improved, through grants for entrepreneurial education, training or mobility programmes. we have been very active in ensuring that the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' pilot project continues in the coming years, and we have been successful in doing so.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the contributions have shown that supporting small and medium-sized enterprises is an important priority for all of us. we need this first eu programme specifically for smes, because they account for the vast majority of all businesses and jobs. small and mediumsized enterprises are the drivers of innovation in our economy. their success is therefore the key to our future competitiveness! at the same time, smes face greater challenges: red tape, complex regulations and funding bottlenecks, such as those experienced in the wake of the financial crisis, make them particularly difficult. because smaller companies often do not have the resources and collateral to comply with complicated laws or to obtain a cheap loan from their bank, very often because the equity ratio is too low. in a 2012 survey, only 37% of eu citizens said they would like to be entrepreneurs. this is 8% less than in 2009. that has to change! this new eu programme cosme will make an important and necessary contribution to our small and medium-sized enterprises to remain competitive, expand and create jobs. cosme has a special place in the next generation of european funding programmes. at the same time, we have ensured that the programme is implemented in close coordination and complementarity with other programmes supporting smes, in particular for horizon 2020 and the structural funds. many people must be involved to ensure that smes benefit as much as possible. let us send a clear signal to the smes in europe by adopting this regulation by a large majority tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am glad that we can debate the annual report on the common security and defence policy and my report on the european industrial base in the field of defence technology this week. in this way we shall be able to vote in time for the council tomorrow and hopefully influence the conclusions of the heads of state or government with our positions. the defence council is about making the csdp better and more cost-efficient. i hope that the heads of state and government will finally put security and defence back on the agenda and leave it at that, that is, that they will also deal with it. the council of foreign ministers and the council of defence ministers at the beginning of this week have not been able to reach a satisfactory conclusion. it was the last time the ministers met to make preparations before the december summit. i really wonder why the political questions about the polish and german reservations have not been settled by the elected politicians. i think that referring these matters back to the civil service is a very bad solution! it would perhaps have been useful to have looked at the legislative acts of parliament which already exist in the council's preparatory bodies. there are certainly some valid arguments that could have been made. i believe that an operational common security and defence policy requires a strong, independent european military base. this military base shall be used to provide capabilities and to fulfil jointly agreed csdp missions. there is broad agreement that all actors involved need to make more efforts, both on the demand side and on the supply side. we must prevent the exodus of our defence industrial base to third countries, which has already begun, from continuing. it is also pointless to create the internal market in defence products - it is already established - if there are no contracts, because without contracts there is no internal market. these objectives can only be achieved if the commission's sensible proposals of 24 july are swiftly implemented. i also thank the commissioner for his contributions. i believe that the european defence agency must finally be put at the centre of the action and given the necessary resources. we must also clarify what we have and explain what capabilities the member states have. it is therefore imperative that a european inventory a european defence review be carried out. i also think that we need to reconcile our european strategic ambitions with the legitimate demand for military capabilities, and the best way to do that would be to draw up a european white paper on security and defence. a truly european process of capacity building requires that member states take the following steps: harmonisation of requirements, convergence of demand and synchronisation of procurement, and then jointly synchronised training, user support, system improvement. the aim must be to strengthen the interoperability of our armed forces already at the procurement stage. if we can do that, we will also achieve a better framework for a better future for our own industrial base!
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, on behalf of catherine ashton i would like to express my appreciation of the highly constructive contribution made to the debate on european defence by the reports of meps koppa and gahler. both reports are a proof that the eu’s institutions are working towards the same goals. owing to the significant and ongoing changes in our geopolitical environment, we must find ways to ensure that european defence lives up to its responsibilities and ambitions. as the high representative/vice president said in this house last october during the debate on cfsp/csdp, we have come a long way already. europe has become one of the main global providers of security. we have deployed close to 30 csdp missions and operations over the last 15 years. as we speak, more than 7 000 dedicated men and women are serving in civilian and military csdp missions across the globe. we have achieved significant results. let me just mention how piracy off the coast of somalia has been drastically reduced by the combined effort of atalanta, our training mission (eutm) and the development assistance provided through the european commission. this is a perfect example of the comprehensive approach, the importance of which is rightly stressed in mrs koppa’s report. it also illustrates the importance of working with partners like the un, nato and the african union. over the last few years we have strongly enhanced our support for the capacity-building of local and regional partners. the koppa report points to the fact that speed is essential in crisis management and that we need to improve the speed and effectiveness of decision-making for csdp deployment. also – and crucially – we need to improve the speed and effectiveness of the conduct of csdp missions. i am glad that you acknowledge that the high representative’s report on csdp constitutes an important step forward towards making europe’s security and defence policy more effective and proactive. we agree that the highly capable and interoperable forces available for csdp operations at very short notice are needed more than ever, as was confirmed at the foreign affairs council debate yesterday. we support the points made in the report on the need to increase their usability in the field, including through enhancing their modularity. we need to maintain the level of ambition of two battle groups on standby which would be adaptable to the range of possible crises. we also agree on the need to develop an eu maritime security strategy. a lot of effort has already been invested in the building blocks of the strategy, and the progress is very encouraging. mrs koppa and mr gahler, the points made in both your reports on gathering intelligence in space, on cyber security threats, on the importance of protecting europe’s energy supply and energy efficiency in defence are also all well made. you all know that high representative/vice-president ashton is personally committed to the human rights and gender issue. this is certainly not neglected by our csdp missions and is carried forward by our delegations. the high representative has also overseen a significant development of the eu’s mediation and dialogue capabilities within the european external action service. president, honourable members, as both reports point out, we should not forget the economic dimension: european defence is also about jobs, innovation and growth. there is a strong link between investment in technological research, the development of common programmes, affordable capabilities and the ability of the eu as a whole to act decisively when required. we can only agree with the suggestion of the koppa report that step-by-step implementation of existing projects, particularly those on strategic enablers and eda flagship projects, is necessary. in today’s financial climate, the challenges of enhancing the eu’s defence capabilities largely come down to the issue of pooling and sharing. we need to tackle head-on the fragmentation of our defence industry. this is clearly addressed in the gahler report. we can only agree that an operational common security and defence policy need a strong technological and industrial base. at the competitiveness council on 2-3 december, ministers will find a discussion proposal on how to improve the technological and industrial base of europe’s defense industry and how we could reinforce the internal market for defence equipment. these discussions will certainly help prepare the european council in december. mr gahler’s report includes a number of very useful proposals, such as the need for a common approach to standardisation and certification, ensuring security of supply and enhancing the internal market in defence equipment. these are all issues which i am sure will be raised in the competitiveness council, where they are likely to secure a large measure of support. as is quite explicitly said in the reports, the challenge of enhancing the eu’s defence capabilities is primarily political rather than budgetary. let me turn finally to the suggestion of establishing permanent structured cooperation – pesco – which is also featured in the recently-adopted giannakou report. we have to recognise that the appetite of member states for using pesco has so far been limited. the discussion in the run-up to the european council has underlined it again but it may well be that, in the future, making use of article 44 of the lisbon treaty will be seen as a practical way forward in a specific situation. let me end by assuring you that the eeas stands ready to play its part in implementing measures to fulfil the significant potential of csdp. in july, the high representative presented an interim report for discussion during the informal meetings of eu defence and foreign affairs ministers in vilnius in early september. on the basis of those discussions, she then issued a final report on 11 october, which included a range of proposals and actions in line with the 2012 mandate. both of these reports were shared with parliament. we are particularly pleased to see that the koppa report fully agrees with the three clusters proposed by the high representative for the december summit. first, increasing the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the csdp; second, enhancing the development of defence capabilities; and third, making europe’s defence industry stronger. yes, csdp needs to be better integrated into eu institutions and policies and to enhance the security of the eu and of the wider world too. we look forward to making our contribution together with the member states, the european commission and the european parliament. the overall message of the two reports is clear: the union needs to be able to act, through csdp, as a security provider in the neighbourhood and at international level. the union needs to protect its interests and project its values. to be credible, the capabilities and the commitment of the member states are required. a strong, innovative and sustainable industrial base is needed to provide such capabilities. president, honourable members, time has not allowed me to address in any depth all the very valid points made in your reports, but i can assure you that both your reports, as well as our debate tonight, will serve as an important guide in our preparations for the debate on defence in the european council. i therefore look forward to hearing your interventions and wish to thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, there is no european foreign policy without a security and defence policy. i believe that the next european council, which will be devoted to the common defence policy, is an important step forward, which brings to mind the dream of alcide de gasperi in the early 1950s of creating a common european defence policy. i was at the meeting of the european defence ministers yesterday, in preparation for the next european council, and i was pleased to see that the gahler report and the communication from the committee on industry share the same approach. as the gahler report itself states, europe's ability to ensure the safety of its citizens in the years ahead is closely linked to our industrial base. in short, i believe that an important and modern common defence and security policy cannot be without a solid european industrial base and a genuine industrial policy. of course, our industry, if it is to be globally competitive, is called upon to make an extraordinary effort to diversify and innovate in the defence sector in particular. even when armies use the same means, they are unfortunately unable to interact because of very different software or technology problems, with relative difficulties in the course of joint missions. these are just some of the obstacles. it should be added that, on the whole, member states spend more and more than other global players on products which are not always of better quality. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i would like to draw your attention to four priorities, which were also identified in yesterday's debate and in the gahler report: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. as regards the internal market, in order to make it more competitive and efficient, it is crucial to have common rules and to implement them in a uniform manner in all the countries of the union, starting with the two legislative texts that are still awaiting full transposition into the internal legal order - i am referring to the 2011 procurement directive and the 2009 transfer directive. that is why i renew my appeal that these two texts be translated into clear and uniform rules for all as soon as possible. that said, i wish to confirm to parliament that the commission has no intention of producing new legislation in the field of defence. we are instead going to have a more detailed action plan based on the outcome of the european council in december, and we are going to make sure that the existing rules and instruments are properly applied and used. the second point concerns standardization and certification. without common, fully interoperable standards and without adequate and mutually recognised certification systems, the internal market for defence products is destined to remain a chimera. we propose first of all to intensify synergies with the european defence agency, which is working on this front to define the general framework for improving the standardisation processes. i would like to mention, for example, the excellent work already done on the development of the hybrid sdr standard, and the same approach and logic applies to certification. a common approach is needed to save resources, which is imperative in times of austerity and budget cuts. eda has already made important progress, for example in the certification of the airworthiness of military vehicles. the third important point is the one that we have already discussed, because it concerns small and mediumsized enterprises, which play a key role in the competitiveness of the entire defence industry. they are a valuable source of innovation and employment, but they are also the most exposed to budget cuts, being more vulnerable to the decline in domestic demand which, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, cannot be immediately offset by exports. to avoid losing important players, small and medium-sized operators need to benefit more from partnerships, synergies and cost reductions to cope with demand and contribute to the value chain, including by joining clusters between enterprises, universities and research centres. smes should make better use of the existing and often underestimated enterprise europe network's activities and tools in this regard. the fourth theme is research. the european research framework programme horizon 2020 allows security-related projects to be developed only if they are guided by civilian objectives. in order not to limit military research and dual-use instruments, the european commission's communication suggests that an exploratory action be launched for research and development activities of interest to the common security and defence policy, thus outside horizon 2020. this is a major innovation which could open up scenarios that are unthinkable today for european security and defence research, with wide implications for other traditional manufacturing sectors along the entire value chain. i know that this is a very sensitive subject, which needs more in-depth discussions between member states, the european external action service and the eda. when we talk about greater civil and military synergies, we are referring first and foremost to space and to the european space policy. the galileo satellite navigation programmes - the first all-european physical infrastructure - and the copernicus earth observation programmes will enable industry to develop innovative applications and solutions along dual-use tracks, as the gahler report also points out and emphasises. a defence industrial and technological base is therefore absolutely essential if we are to be self-sufficient and credible. this requires more cooperation between member states and european institutions, the same cooperation that underpins all esdp missions that have made europe increasingly visible in situations of regional and international crisis. i believe that the union must also take action in the mediterranean to combat human trafficking, which is at the root of recent tragedies such as those in lampedusa. i know that this is also being discussed in parliament. i hope that this will remain a priority issue in the run-up to the european summit in december. in conclusion, the defence industry is not only a security industry but also an economic reality, with a turnover of eur 96 billion in 2012 and employing 1.5 million workers in europe. we risk eroding the skills, technologies and know-how that, once lost, will be very difficult and expensive to recover. after receiving the support of the council yesterday, i am also counting on the support of parliament to promote this strong action also in view of the decisive date of the european summit on 19 december.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report by mrs koppa and the report by mr gahler are all about the december summit, which is now called the defence summit - but it should be called the armaments summit! because defence in the sense of territorial threat is the least of the concerns. it's about power, it's about influence, it's about securing resources, it's about economic aspects like the trade routes. mrs koppa calls for flexible standing forces with a high degree of readiness. what is this de facto other than a european army? we on the left reject this and so should an eu which wants to be a union of peace. the same applies to the use of civilian research for military purposes. mr gahler complains of the threat to military technology, indeed to the entire eu's defence and industrial base, from cuts in military budgets. the eu is the second largest arms exporter in the world, germany alone is the third largest arms exporter in the world, france is fourth, the uk is sixth, spain is seventh and italy is eighth. no sign of emergency! the refugees of the lampedusa group in hamburg are shouting at their rallies "who makes war, makes refugees!" and i say here, whoever exports weapons helps kill people! suppliers of surveillance technology to dictatorships are sending people to prisons where they are tortured. who makes war, makes refugees, refugees who then find their deaths in the thousands, for example, in the mediterranean. and if this is regrettable, then i can't really take it seriously!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mrs koppa and mr gahler very warmly for their reports. i must say that mrs lösing and mr van van orden are not that far apart in their positions, which i find particularly astonishing. i think that we have dangers and that europe has made a considerable contribution in recent years to mitigating dangers, to ensuring peace, to safeguarding human lives and to preventing wars. and i think that's a great achievement that needs to be expanded. i think that the dangers we face, if we look at the energy situation, for example, show that we have to have our own capabilities. and i believe that nato can only survive in the long term if europe becomes an equal partner and nato is not just a leadership and weak vassals. i think that's a bit shortsighted. and a separate industrial policy base is not only important in this area economically, important for technological questions, but it also means independence. if we buy our guns from someone else, someone else will decide what we do with them. and we also have to have the ability to operate where the american people don't want to operate. all of this must be complementary, it must also contribute to strengthening nato not be directed against nato. we must have our own european capabilities. and that is why these questions must be discussed at the summit, political will must be demonstrated, that is the decisive thing, i think mr tajani has made this clear! we must show political will! but this political will must also be supported by taking advantage of the treaty of lisbon, by structural cooperation, by small groups, by the clear awareness that we must have a common level of security for all the member states of the european union if we are to develop politically. and i also believe that fragmentation costs money. i believe that for reasons of cost savings, efficiency and effectiveness we need common european pooling and sharing and many other things that have been expressed in this report. the question is also how to do more with less money. that too must be made clear. for this reason, it is quite reasonable to say that we are making progress in this area - in foreign policy, in security policy and in economic policy. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs once again for this and hope that their views will be heard at the summit and that the headline that this is supposed to be a defence summit will be kept and that this issue will not be buried alongside other issues!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, a few remarks on the very interesting and varied debate on the eve of a european council which will be called upon to make important choices. first of all, i think that the concepts of 'defence industry' and 'defence policy' should be clarified. security policy does not mean attacking others or turning the european union into a kind of great world war-mongering machine. i don't think drones are for killing. i think of the use that can be made of it, for example, for civil protection in the event of natural disasters. my country was hit hard by a natural disaster yesterday, and if it had not been for the armed forces, the police, the scientific instruments produced by the security industry, perhaps fewer lives would have been saved. is it war-mongering to save immigrants from countries in the midst of civil war, to save lives in the middle of the mediterranean by means of the mediterranean security and defence control system? i don't think he is. does defending european ships sailing along the world's most important sea lanes from pirate attacks mean that we are warmongers? i don't think you are. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. i insist on the question of civil protection. another important issue is that of cost. i agree with mr giannakou that the community must be able to take action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it does not mean that we shall immediately have a european defence, but that we shall have common rules which will certainly make it possible to ensure greater coordination of the defence systems of the various countries. the european union and nato also had a lively exchange of views in the chamber. why should the european union be defended when nato is already there? i think you do. the european defence system is not an alternative to that of nato but, as was also stressed during the discussion, there are countries of the european union which are not part of nato. so having a european defence and security system means including non-nato countries in that system. this does not mean that we should not be able to cooperate with nato in certain interventions to guarantee security and defence, in the fight against terrorism, in peacekeeping and peace-enforcing operations at world level. but that sometimes means having common rules with nato, which saves money. collaboration does not mean antithesis: the existence of nato and its usefulness in ensuring stability in the world and protecting europe does not mean that we should not have a european industrial system producing defence equipment. it is a very important industry in terms of the number of people employed and it is also crucial, for example, in supporting the shipbuilding sector, which is a sector in crisis and which the european commission has dealt with with a real action plan. the defence industry is therefore perfectly suited to the context of the relaunch of the european union's industrial policy and reindustrialisation, as envisaged in the text approved by the commission, which sets the target of 20% of gross domestic product by the end of 2020 coming from the manufacturing sector. so it seems to me that mr gahler's text is a text that can be widely shared, a text that looks beyond the present situation and that favours the growth of the european industrial system in a europe that believes in peace but also in security. i therefore regard the contribution made today by this house as being of great importance in view of the european council in december. the participation, the long discussion and the active presence of the council itself are all evidence of the seriousness with which this meeting is being prepared, which can only be positively assessed by our fellow citizens. i would like to stress that the coordination of defence policy means reducing costs, which are now sometimes too high, achieving better results and investing the money saved in other areas where there is currently a great need for investment.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting and forward-looking debate. i can assure mr audy that the views expressed tonight and in parliament’s reports will be duly taken into account by the european council. in addition to the specific points from the two reports, i will underline that the debate has emphasised the importance this house attaches to the forthcoming december european council on defence. this is the same view taken by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. as mr danjean put it so well, the changing strategic context, rising security challenges and the continuing pressure on national defence budgets, as spending in other parts of the world increases, make a strategic debate at the highest political level a priority. such a debate should also address the crucial question, raised by many tonight, of the political will to develop and deploy capabilities. the european council in december will not be a stand-alone event. we expect it to decide that follow-up will be required. this is a strong call for the leaders to attend to security and defence issues on a regular basis, to monitoring progress and to providing new energy, so that we can concentrate our efforts on implementation. as mr brok rightly pointed out, the best way to safeguard our security is to prevent conflict and war. the eu has unique capabilities in this area. the force of eu foreign policy lies in our ability to respond to a crisis with a wide range of tools and instruments: short-term and long-term, humanitarian and development-orientated, security and political. mr tannock also recognised the importance of this so-called comprehensive approach. it is this blend of policy and people that allows the eu to deal not only with the symptoms of a crisis or security problem but also with the underlying causes. our approach combines diplomacy, development and defence aspects. without defence, the other components would have less impact. there is no contradiction here. the high representative is deeply committed to making europe a relevant global player and security provider, and the european parliament’s role is essential in this regard. we continue to be grateful for your assistance so far, and we will also need your continued support in the future.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to respond to what was said and inform the house that baroness ashton is involved in the very important talks with iran in geneva. we apologise that this is taking place at the same time as this debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank you very much for the broad support for both reports, which has been very clear from the debate here. i might like to focus on some peripheral opinions. i think that anyone who accuses a union of stable democracies of militarism and imperialism is simply ridiculing himself. we are the answer, the democratic answer, to the errors of totalitarian ideologies, and this is also reflected in the union's policy. we have not more military spending or defense spending, but less than 20 years ago, less than 10 years ago, less than five years ago. and that's why it's important that we spend our money better, that we assess the costs of non-europe in this area. we have commissioned a study in parliament which will be published shortly. but i 've heard a number before: the cost of non-europe in this area is in the order of 40 billion euros a year. we cannot afford to do that, particularly as the challenges are growing. because the challenges are getting bigger, we should respond to them in the form of moving away from ad hoc decisions -- ad hoc decisions about whether or not someone is willing to intervene in libya, ad hoc decisions about whether or not someone is interested in mali. it could be that a need arises and then ad hoc no one is there. so we should make full use of the possibilities of the lisbon treaty. and to those who always talk about duplication, i would like to say again: the only duplicators or multipliers in this area - not just doubling, but multiplying - are the member states, where duplication takes place at unspeakably high cost. if we are told that we should above all use nato structures, yes, we can do that. but in nato, it's a veto or a unanimous vote. so a state could veto areas where we as european member states do not like it, for example turkey, if we were to take action in north africa or other muslim areas - i do not want that! and that is why i believe we need our own base in the eu to make decisions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the really very good and intensive cooperation from the beginning. i am convinced that we have now collectively made a really strong proposal out of a commission proposal, which has really contributed to a common position in the trilogue negotiations. i would also like to thank the commission and the cypriot and irish presidencies. we all worked hard, we argued hard, we fought hard. it has not always been easy, but in the end, the compromises are very tolerable for all of us. what's the program about? the programme will combine three existing independent programmes. the first is the progress programme. it supports the development and coordination of eu policies in the fields of employment, social protection and social inclusion, and working conditions. the second eures sub-programme shall: the eures network's mission is to provide information, advice and assistance to mobile workers, employers and citizens in general who wish to exercise their right to free movement within the internal market. the third programme, microfinance, allows micro-credit to be granted to particularly vulnerable groups to help them set up micro-enterprises or to support existing ones. now social enterprises will also be able to obtain microcredit. the starting position was that we all asked ourselves: what is the commission's intention in bringing together three separate and very different programmes? we had a lot of questions at the beginning about the relationship between the three programmes. i personally also found it particularly lacking in its relevance to poverty reduction and other burning social issues. and the common framework for these programmes did not exist either. we now have a programme with a new title, namely the employment and social innovation programme. the programme is aimed at poverty reduction, social inclusion and quality employment. there is a clear definition of priorities for support within the three sub-programmes and a binding percentage allocation of funds has been established, e.g. within progress 50% of funds are used for poverty reduction and social inclusion. in particular, the future funding of the eures border partnerships was controversial. the commission therefore decided to finance the advice centres for mobile workers and employers in frontier regions exclusively through the european social fund. in our view, this would have been a mistake and would have made the existence of future border partnerships very difficult and would have destroyed some good projects already in existence. we have succeeded, the eures programme continues to ensure the border partnerships, and the consultation of workers is also very much needed, with bilateral agreements between member states which are very different. parliament has now given the subprogramme a common framework. there will now be annual work plans for all sub-programmes, not just for progress as originally proposed by the commission. if the commission wants to change political priorities, it will do so only after consulting parliament. the social partners and ngos also have a stronger role to play in the compromise reached - not quite as strong as i would have liked, but certainly stronger than before. what have we not achieved? the committee on employment, with the agreement of all the political groups, has called for a fourth subprogramme to combat youth unemployment. it should be given additional funds by the council. the aim was to finance projects to combat youth unemployment across the eu. unfortunately, the council has once again proved its point. they're just words. we have had the chance to find a place here from which we can coordinate this throughout europe. i still believe that a comprehensive youth employment programme would have been the right thing to do and would have provided the necessary visibility. however, i am satisfied with the overall compromise reached. and i think that we have put together a very good piece of legislation to at least reduce the problems in the member states!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am particularly pleased that eu support for the eures border regions is maintained. thanks to the european parliament's negotiating power, the new instrument has succeeded in earmarking 18% of the total eur 920 million for the financing of the eures border regions, allowing them to continue their work for the next seven years. new crossborder partnerships are also being made possible. i think this is really good news for the eures border partnerships and the cross-border workers in europe. the absurd idea of the commission to finance crossborder partnerships through the esf was clearly rejected by parliament with this success in the negotiations, because it would have been the end of crossborder partnerships. as we know, the esf is subject to national priorities which are very different. the esf requires national competence for this purpose. in these circumstances, it would have been simply impossible to establish a crossborder aid scheme. there are a great many mobile workers in the border regions. they live in one country and they work in another. and to inform them of their rights and to shed light on the jungle of social systems for them, to give them proper advice, is simply a european matter and that is why it must be promoted at european level. let me make one more comment on the microfinance instrument. here too parliament has made its point and above all has made it clear that these micro-credits are to be given to people and social enterprises who otherwise have no access to the credit market. however, the size of the microcredit fund is very small - as has already been said - and only pilot projects can be granted microcredit. i therefore appeal to all the member states to include micro-credit in their esf programmes, thus complementing these pilot actions. it is only in this way that we can give people who have no other access to credit on the market the opportunity to start a business and find their way out of unemployment. this is a good programme, it can be a successful programme and i think that the co-decision of parliament has really created a great new european added value here!
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you very much to all the speakers. i would have wished the critics would have cooperated in this programme if they really cared about the interests of the people in their member states. we have a tool which creates jobs, good jobs, helps the disadvantaged and also helps young people to find a job. i think you are right, commissioner, we have achieved our objective, even though i would have liked more funds. but it was out of our hands. i think that with easi we can get a little bit closer to a social europe. thank you for your broad support!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i want to thank all the shadow reporters and all those who have worked really hard on this issue, especially all the people behind the scenes for putting this really good bill on the table. unfortunately, the council is not represented, but that is not the point, it has not done much to help! the cypriots and the irish have been the main partners in this dossier. life is quite small, at eur 3.46 billion, compared to the large funds we voted on this week. it's only 0.3% of the budget. it is a very successful programme with sustainable investments. and it has been evolving steadily since 1992. there will be some new features in the next funding period. there is a sub-programme on climate coming up. a higher proportion than before is reserved for nature conservation projects. the unsuccessful system of national allocations will finally expire in 2017. a promising new type of project the integrated projects is being introduced. let me say a few more sentences on the last two points. from the outset, i have found that a geographically meaningful and equitable distribution of life projects cannot be achieved through national allocations. we need to invest in capacity building. developing the ability to design good and long-term environmental and climate projects has implications beyond life. a small part of the next life budget will therefore be used to support life contact points for training and for exchanges between environmental authorities. another real innovation is the integrated projects. the project will also involve cooperation between different funds under the leadership of life to tackle major challenges in the fields of water, waste, climate or nature conservation. this is a really efficient use of funds for the benefit of the economy and the environment. it is now up to the regions, national authorities and environmental organisations to really get their act together! i strongly encourage that! it is a concrete instrument for this integration, which is so often called for. so get on with it! but these two new elements capacity building and integrated projects are very promising. however, they are also a challenge that can only be met by the long experience of the staff in the commission's life units. we all know that the quality of our work is achieved by our experience, a solid network and, not least, historical knowledge. if the whole life programme is to be managed by one executive agency - or at least that is what the commission is planning - we risk causing lasting damage to an excellent eu programme. i therefore repeat that any change must ensure that the executive agency has sufficient expertise, including in the field of nature conservation, and an appropriate number of staff in total. i think the commission has to make a serious improvement here. we all know that bad administration can really ruin any great project. but we want to prevent that from happening at life, because life is an absolutely excellent programme!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you for the flowers that were sent to me. i know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is half an hour earlier than we normally start, but that can't be the reason why it is so empty. you have to consider that the morning shift has been going on for three and a half hours outside. usually they go home after a lot of work. so i think we should not be standing in line like this. i am glad, however, that all the non-governmental organisations, the regional authorities and sometimes even the national authorities want to listen to us and cooperate with us much more intensively than they do here in parliament. i would like to thank all those who have come here and participated in the debate. the long history of life is certainly always closely linked to parliament. we have always been committed to life, otherwise this programme would not be more than 20 years old. we started with the first environmental budget lines. and in the last 20 years, it's been a really big success. i thank you, mr potočnik, for saying that you want to see that the executive agency is actually put in a position to implement our life programme properly - and i say that very consciously - our life programme. but i must reaffirm what margarete auken said: i am already concerned when we hear the news - i hope it is only a rumor - that the 25% of the climate programme is to be spent more through financial instruments. we simply cannot agree with that. we think that a proper mix could certainly benefit the whole thing, could increase our life money, but please do not rely on financial instruments alone! it is easier for the commission to do so, because it will then have it off its feet, so to speak. but i think the traditional climate projects are also part of that, and i'm sure the ngos will thank you for that. we're going to keep looking at life, because we're all so connected to life! once again, a heartfelt thank you to all the shadow reporters! i think we made a great team. and above all - i must say it again - many thanks to the staff of the individual rapporteurs and the groups, and in particular - i know this may not be appropriate - i would like to thank my colleague, katharina peschen, in particular. without them, the law wouldn't exist as it is now!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union loses billions of dollars every year through tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. this is unacceptable even in times of good economic growth. in the present crisis, when the member states are having difficulty in consolidating their budgets, it is completely absurd not to take aggressive action here! fiscalis is one such project, it has proven itself in the past, and now fiscalis 2020 has good approaches to make at least some progress. this fiscalis project is not just an economic project. it's also a question of justice. if we are to be a union of values, then it is clear that every citizen and every company has a duty to act in a tax-friendly manner. it is also a project which, as my predecessor has said, will help to complete the internal market by ensuring that tax authorities cooperate really efficiently. the exchange of information, networking and guidance on best practice are the prerequisites. unfortunately, the budget has been cut back somewhat from the original proposals. this is of course also linked to the reduction in the overall financial envelope. it is only fair to start here too, but we would have liked to see the funds really be sufficient, because the financial effort will hopefully be compensated by more than the success. i welcome the fact that there is no rigid allocation of the budget to certain regions or projects, but that there is a willingness and a possibility to act flexibly, and that it is therefore dependent on the progress of the individual elements whether they receive more or less money each year. i regret, however, that the commission only carries out an evaluation in the middle of the financial period. i would have liked the commission to examine and evaluate annually the progress of the project in terms of both quantity and quality. i am particularly pleased that this time we have managed to take account of the involvement of external personnel from third countries. i think it is important that if we want to bring countries like turkey or ukraine and others closer to the eu over time, we should involve them in such a project in good time!
president of the european court of auditors. − mr president, it is a great honour to present again the court’s annual report on the implementation of the 2012 european budget to this plenary session of the european parliament. europe’s citizens have the right to know how their money is being spent and whether it is being used properly, but they also have a right to know whether it is delivering value, particularly at a time when there is such pressure on public finances in europe. the court’s annual report helps to provide this parliament and the citizens it represents with an overview of what is known about the state of the european union’s financial management. the picture presented this year is consistent with previous years. in addition, the court’s annual report on 2012 can be read as follows: we know what european union money is spent on and that the eu accounts prepared by the european commission are reliable, as they have been since 2007. we also know that not all funds are used properly: the court concludes that payments from the european union budget are materially affected by error. but not enough is known about the overall value that the european union budget delivers to citizens. the management and reporting systems for the budget are not yet capable of providing sufficient, relevant and reliable information on the results obtained by european union spending. as regards the legality and regularity of payments, the court estimates that the most likely error rate for expense payments underlying the eu accounts is 4.8 %. the 2012 annual report includes considerable insight about the nature of these errors, where they occur, and why they persist. i would like to draw this parliament’s attention to a number of points. first, errors persist and represent cases where eu funds were not used in accordance with the relevant legislation, and hence with the wishes of this parliament and the council as legislator and budgetary authority. over two-thirds of the estimated error rate pertain to the ineligibility of cost claims submitted for payment and to serious failures to respect procurement rules. secondly, errors are not confined to any specific area of the budget. all policy groups covering operational expenditure are materially affected by error. administrative expenditure is the only area where no material level of error was found. the court’s overall estimate of the most likely error rate for all areas of operational expenditure showed increases compared to 2011, leading to an overall rise from 3.9% in 2011 to 4.8% in 2012. third, the court’s estimated rate of error is higher for those areas jointly managed by member states. improvements to the court’s methodology enable a fair comparison to be made in this year’s annual report. the court calculates that the estimated rate of error on shared management expenditure was 5.3%, compared with 4.3% on all other forms of operational expenditure. rural development remains the most error-prone, with an estimated error rate of 7.9%, followed by regional policy, with an error rate of 6.8%. but the court’s findings do not suggest that errors in areas under shared management are confined to specific member states. in fact, the court’s assessments of supervisory and control systems it examined showed there to be weaknesses at a wide range of national and regional authorities. member states’ authorities could do more to prevent errors. the court’s transaction testing also shows that over half of the errors the court found could have been corrected by national authorities before submitting claims for reimbursement by the commission. the commission can and does take action to protect the european union budget by applying financial corrections. but the system for doing so is complex, and the impact of financial corrections on member states and beneficiaries depends on the applicable legislation. for example, in agriculture most financial corrections do not lead the members states concerned to recover payments from beneficiaries, while for cohesion most corrections are flat-rate corrections which do not lead to detailed correction at project level. so, in effect, most financial corrections fall on national taxpayers. the main problem is that the current legal framework for spending does not do enough to encourage better spending. the challenge will be to change that over the new financial framework period. this week, this parliament is adopting the highest level legal basis for nearly all the european union programmes for that period, but important decisions remain to be taken at lower levels of legislation on their own implementation. with mounting pressure on public finances at european union and national levels, the court recommends a greater focus on the performance of the european spending programmes. this means laying down clear objectives, relevant indicators and expected results for all spending programmes. currently, the court finds that this is not done consistently enough to provide a sufficient basis for managing and reporting on their performance. the union needs to address this issue and create a culture of performance if the new generation of spending programmes is to deliver – and be seen to deliver – added value to european citizens. the european institutions will need to work together to improve the european union’s performance and accountability in the coming years. the court looks forward to playing its part, along with the other institutions, in achieving this goal for the benefit of eu citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased that the court has signed off the accounts of the european union and that the audit concludes that eu revenue, all commitments and administrative expenditure are free from material error. on the other hand, i am concerned that this year the most likely error rate estimated for payments increased from 3.9% to 4.8%. however, i would like to stress that one third of this increase is related to the court’s new sampling methodology in direct expenditure. furthermore, if flat-rate corrections imposed by the commission before member states sent their payment claims had been taken into account by the court, the error rate for 2012 would be broadly in line with the ones for the previous years. that said, the commission is not satisfied with this result. in order to have a substantial impact on the error rate, the upcoming work will focus on the area of shared management, mainly in relation to cohesion and agricultural policies. for the cohesion policy, high error rates result notably from complex management structures, poor verifications of expenditure by national authorities and insufficient guidance and training to beneficiaries concerning complex eligibility rules. for agriculture, the highest error rate estimated by the court of auditors in 2012 (7.9%) concerns rural development and is related to eligibility of investment projects, declaration of ineligible vat or non-compliance with public procurement rules. the commission is committed to addressing the origin of errors with the member states and to focusing its efforts on the most risky programmes and less well-performing national authorities. it will use all preventive and corrective measures at its disposal. as you know, the commission has a strict policy on interruptions of payments and suspensions of programmes; as soon as there is evidence of serious and persistent weaknesses in management and control systems, the commission stops payments. in 2012, interruptions in regional, cohesion, social and fisheries funds amounted to eur 5 billion. in agriculture the commission and the member states have established a partnership to identify the main root causes of errors. in 2012, 14 member states developed first action plans. in 2013, we expanded the exercise to all member states. however, preventive measures cannot cover all risks of errors. therefore, once errors have occurred, the commission has the duty to protect the eu budget by correcting all irregularities found. as explained in the recent communication on the protection of the eu budget, the financial corrections and recoveries have increased noticeably, amounting to eur 4.4 billion in 2012, compared to eur 1.8 billion in 2011. for the period 2009-2012, these corrective measures correspond on average to 2% of all payments. this means that, thanks to our multiannual systems, a considerable part of the annual error rate estimated by the court is likely to be corrected and recovered in the following years. under shared management the commission is responsible for protecting the eu’s financial interests, and the member states have to protect their national budget and taxpayers. for the next programming period, the commission proposed to further enhance the incentive effect of corrective measures on negligent member states. from next january, serious irregularities detected by the commission or the court of auditors will lead to net financial corrections. this measure will reduce definitely the eu contribution to the member states who did not detect themselves the issues and/or did not correct the errors in due time. the process triggering the net financial corrections will be systematic and based on objective and transparent criteria. finally, a new performance approach is in place to better demonstrate the added-value delivered by the eu action to our citizens and businesses. together with the simplification of eligibility rules and payment schemes and the development of a concrete performance framework, the implementation of an effective system of net financial correction is one of our key priorities for the future. we continue our work in close contact with the rapporteur and the members of the committee on budgetary control to develop an adequate approach for the next programming period. i look forward to a constructive and fruitful debate in the context of the 2012 commission discharge.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i thank the court for its very important information! for us to be clear: the error rates of the european budget increased in 2012 for the third consecutive year. the european court of auditors has again refused to give the commission a statement of assurance on the handling of eu funds in the case of a 4.8% quota. it's four point eight. the commission's action was not accompanied by a promise to obtain a full declaration of reliability? we are moving away from this claim with higher error rates and the same anomalies: tendering procedures, incorrect information on area sizes, circumvention of environmental requirements are examples of this. i would add that not only are they always the same mistakes, they are always the same member states. the eu commission itself recently found that only six countries account for more than 90% of the errors. we are calling for direct supervision by the commission of the certification of audit bodies in these countries and we need an effective sanction mechanism. the more errors the commission uncovers, the less the member states are allowed to benefit from european funds. as rapporteur on the committee on budgetary control, we want to see a communication on how the commission intends to deal effectively with the so-called net financial corrections in the next budgetary period. we ask for this information as soon as possible! i would like to say very clearly to the court: you too should concentrate on country reports and thus on the weaknesses in european aid policy! the court has more responsibility here than it realizes at the moment. the court of auditors must not only identify the errors, but also identify the perpetrators. it is becoming increasingly clear that country reports are indispensable for the european parliament's budgetary control, and the court of auditors has a crucial role to play in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. yes, it is true, the error rate is increasing, and that cannot leave us alone. we social democrats in the committee on budgetary control will work very closely with the rapporteur in drawing up the discharge decision and will make proposals on how the commission can work in the future to reduce the error rate. it is important for me to stress in the plenary of the european parliament that mistakes are not fraud, and that mistakes are not necessarily waste, but that there are payments and projects with errors which can ultimately create european added value for the european taxpayer. i think it is important to make this distinction again. 80% of the european union's money is managed in shared management and that is a good thing because nobody in brussels can or will decide whether regional aid in the state of north rhine-westphalia should be better used for the development of the port of duisburg or the port of wesel. it is therefore right that the local authorities should decide how the money is to be spent. but it also means that the mistakes are made on the spot. our task of reducing the error rate can only be fulfilled if the member states play their part - and they do not - as commissioner šemeta rightly said in his speech last year. president barroso has not been able to prevail against the member states here either! we can avoid mistakes by simplifying the rules. we are now going to adopt a framework directive which will allow, for example, flat rates for small projects. this will make it easier to manage this money, but it may also create residues. and i can imagine what newspapers would say about this if a successful final beneficiary, perhaps with the remaining budget from a project, invited the participants to a pizza dinner. we can also tighten the controls that are not working well. this is urgently needed because the responsibility lies with the member states. rural development has the highest error rate. it is 7.9%, and i quote the court of auditors: 'in most cases the member states' authorities had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors.' it can't leave us alone. we need better sanctions on this point. i agree with mr pieper on this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we now have a new legal basis for this. let's get back to work.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking the court very warmly for this very impressive annual report. it is a very important overview of the implementation of the budget and for us one of the most important sources of information which gives us an overall picture. i'm thinking six out of seven control systems are only considered moderately effective by the court. what do we do when we and the commission spend the whole year dealing with control systems and then have to be told: 'that's not how it works'? how can it be that heads of paying agencies who manage eu funds give false statements, incorrect statements? we must work with them much more intensively and much more intensively so that they are able to make the right statements. we must be able to rely on these explanations. it also made me think that 43% of the errors are due to ineligible projects or ineligible costs. the member states' administrations approve such costs with their eyes open. i don't think it's always about the mistakes. what is the role of good administration in some member states? we must make this a matter of concern and force the national parliaments to make this a matter of concern. it can't just be that the money is gone, then everything is fine. we must not only look at the absorption rates, but we must look at what we have achieved with them! the structural funds are our greatest concern, given the large sums involved, but also given the hopes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore continue to concentrate on this and, mr president of the court of auditors, perhaps you can tell us the following: 50% of the errors in the structural funds have not been taken into account at all. the error rate is based on the 50% that was calculated. what about the rest of it? that would be important and necessary information for us too!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i should like to begin by thanking the president of the court of auditors and the court of auditors for presenting the annual report. the annual report is a very important basis for us to be able to assess the commission's administrative action in general. the error rate has increased for the third year in a row. this is a major concern for us and it must now finally lead the commission and the member states to tackle the root causes of the problems in the spending of eu funds. because in a time of tight public funds, taxpayers have a right to know where the money is being spent, and they want it to be spent well and properly. we have error rates, particularly in the area of rural development and the structural funds. the question is whether the money was spent wrongly, whether too much was spent, or whether the errors are partly administrative errors. we are also learning that the administrative procedures are too complicated and that some of the problems are also caused by the fact that the legislator, including the european parliament, has made regulations which are too bureaucratic. it is not a question of assigning blame, but of ensuring that all levels, the eu, the commission, the council, the parliament, but also the member states, finally simplify the rules, tackle administrative simplification and put bureaucracy at the centre of our actions, because simple rules will then also avoid errors in application and implementation. we are also, mr president caldeira, as liberals, expecting the court of auditors to be more involved in this. we ask you to have an insight into the administrative processes. you see where the mistakes are made. we would like to ask you to give us an opinion here on how to achieve a holistic budget management that is performance- and result-oriented and which also gives us some ideas on how to reduce the administrative burden on citizens!
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) * * * * * * * * *
the house is aware of the procedure. we are already investigating and i can assure you as the vice-president responsible that we will do so with the necessary seriousness and urgency.
i am not going to go into detail. i am pleased to welcome, on behalf of the house, the bureau of the nordic council, the president of the council, mrs unnur brá konráðsdóttir of iceland, and mr bill justinussen of the faroe islands, who have taken their seats in the gallery. (applause from the centre) a number of our members have already met today with colleagues from the faroe islands and iceland. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we're happy to continue our discussions with you. once again, a warm welcome and thank you for your visit!
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is a continent with little in the way of raw materials. the only raw material we have is our ideas for new products and for new services. i therefore voted in favour of this horizon 2020 report. we need new developments and we've already missed some. information technology is concentrated in america, while other fields such as biotechnology have also migrated from europe. i believe that with horizon 2020 there is an opportunity to set up a programme of support from basic research to product development. many universities in europe are benefiting from this. we must now put these billions to productive use so that we can remain competitive and, of course, finance our welfare state. research funding is also welfare state funding!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too could agree to this report because it is at last a proposal that looks to the future. we all know basic research costs money. you have to concentrate the money. and it is right that the european union has decided here - the idea came in november 2011 - to pool funds for research and innovation. we also paid a lot of tuition during this time, because we also have to be careful, of course, that there is always a contradiction between information sharing and data protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, everyone will say that a little more money would be nice. but i always say, more money triggers more activity. and above all, it is a question of using the money received as efficiently as possible. in this request i wish our report not only a good reception but above all a good implementation!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report because i believe that research is one of the main areas on which our european union should concentrate, because it is here that we can see the real added value of integration. on the other hand, i would like to make it quite clear that i regret that we have not been able to reach the amendments which i signed with 39 other colleagues and which relate to embryonic stem cell research. this research is unethical, it is profoundly unacceptable, it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity if it is financed by the eu, and above all one thing is quite clear: it is unnecessary because great successes have been achieved with adult stem cells! but certain lobbies and interest groups simply put their view of things above what is ethically right. we will therefore be closely monitoring the implementation of this programme, also in the spirit of the citizens' demand for one of us, which i and many other colleagues have supported from the outset.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking for the second time because this institution is indeed a fundamental issue for europe. we have mit in the united states, we have a similar institute in japan, and i hope that with strategic alignment, we can tackle the big societal problems. i see two things that are particularly important, and that is the raw materials policy. we know that raw materials are becoming scarce, that they are becoming expensive, and that's why materials research, raw materials research, resource efficiency has to become the main driver in europe. food is also a new module. we need significant innovation in the food sector for nine billion people, so i welcome this programme and the focus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i could agree with that report. cosme is the acronym for the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes. if you look at it this way, it is the continuation of the horizon 2020 programme, which is only aimed at start-ups and young businesses. this programme, cosme, is focused on growth. the commission has also proposed a budget of eur 2.3 billion. i think our colleagues might be two souls in one breast. on the one hand, it is good that we are concerned about the competitiveness of enterprises and small and mediumsized enterprises. on the other hand, if we keep bringing up this subject, it simply and poignantly shows that we have a whole lot of deficiencies. i therefore simply ask that the basic tendency, the main thrust of this report, to limit the regulatory and control activities to what is necessary, be implemented. i am glad to see that this report has been adopted and i ask not only for its approval but also for its implementation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this good report is just a step in the right direction. the bavarian craft sector and the bavarian smes, for example, make a significant contribution to combating youth unemployment in spain. young spaniards are coming to us in large numbers. this is a very positive development made possible by the european union. but our craft and our medium-sized businesses need two things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, we do not want to see the craft sector and small and mediumsized enterprises increasingly burdened with bureaucratic obstacles, as is now the case with the tachograph requirement and other areas. and i encourage the commission to take seriously the words of president barroso here in the plenary and to finally adopt an anti-bureaucratic course!
in writing. the programme for social change and innovation adopted today could become a major building block for european social policy. in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy more effectively, poverty needs to be significantly reduced and the overall quality of employment needs to be improved in many european regions. this is laid down in the employment guidelines. however, the implementation is still pending. further efforts are needed to make labour markets more efficient, to improve social protection and to make integration into work processes much easier. the idea is to implement these ideas with financial support from the european social fund. the priorities include progress, for which 60% of the funds are to be made available, and eures, for which 18% is planned. further funding will be provided for the european youth initiative. the aim is to improve the employment and training situation. the focus is on young people who have been unable to find a job, or to complete school or vocational training. eures is designed to improve the increasingly important crossborder mobility of workers. the sub-programme 'microfinance and social entrepreneurship' aims to create more businesses. the aim is to improve access to funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very happy about this report, which was adopted by a very clear majority, and of course also about the report by mr gahler, because i believe that these are the crucial tasks that we have to face at the moment. in order to get europe out of the current blockade and crisis, we must focus very strongly on europe's protective function, which is very much accepted by the citizens, both in terms of internal and external security. and of course, preventive diplomacy is needed first, because war or military action cannot and must not take place until it is too late, that is to say, when the peace efforts have failed. but sometimes, as we know, such intervention is necessary, and europe needs the appropriate technological skills and capacities and also the appropriate structures. we are still a long way from that, but i think that the summit in december could not give a better signal for a renewal of european thought than to take up these ideas.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on bangladesh: human rights and the forthcoming elections.
i thank you very much, mr tannock. i don't want to interrupt anyone, but when there are different speakers, there are three, four, five in the house, they are always the same. the interpreters are desperately pressing the keys because they are no longer following. english is a world language, and many people understand english, but not all. so if those english speakers want to be understood across the continent, first of all, they should slow down and secondly, perhaps, give the texts to the interpreters first. everything else does not contribute to the comprehensibility of communication in our house. so i would ask everyone to read a little slower. the interpreters have now pressed the buttons several times, and i will take the liberty of interrupting colleagues in the future.
there is possibly a general misunderstanding. i was told, and it is written here, that everybody has one minute – with the exception of ms lambert who has one-and-a-half minutes. ms de keyser thought she had three minutes, not two, but the problem is a general problem with written texts. colleagues tend to speed up when they have written texts and the interpreters have a real and serious problem with that. i would like it if we could get this problem more under control. everyone is down for one minute.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of vice-president catherine ashton, we welcome the adoption by parliament of the resolution on bangladesh. the bangladeshi-eu relationship is based on the principles we share concerning democracy and human rights, and these are enshrined in our cooperation agreement. as regards the forthcoming elections, we have been calling – along the same line as your resolution today – on the main political parties to hold an immediate constructive dialogue in order to find an acceptable compromise on the key question of administration during the electoral period. only an agreement between the parties would allow credible, transparent and inclusive elections to take place, fully respecting the deadlines set in the constitution. we have made it clear that political violence is not acceptable, and the arrests of opposition politicians and human rights defenders have not facilitated a solution. while the eu stands ready to deploy an election observation mission, we have stated that full deployment of observers will depend on the political and the security context in the country. the european union is also closely following the situation in relation to human rights and the rights of minorities in bangladesh. while the eu does not favour impunity for crimes, we have repeatedly drawn the attention of the bangladeshi authorities to our opposition to the death penalty. also mentioned in the resolution is the issue of labour standards and working conditions in the ready-made-garment industry in bangladesh. improving labour conditions is essential, and you will be aware that the garment workers have been on the streets in recent weeks to demand better conditions and better pay. we believe that bangladesh has the potential to achieve its goal of becoming a middle-income country by 2020. but it can do so only on the basis of a national consensus on the way forward, and that consensus can be achieved only through consensual and credible elections. bangladesh also needs to move forward on crucial issues such as defeating corruption and the causes of corruption, on ensuring better standards in factories, and on fostering human rights. we need to continue to work constructively with bangladesh in order to achieve these valuable objectives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on qatar: the situation of migrant workers.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the working situation of migrants in qatar has been described. what exactly is this about? the accident rate in qatar is eight times higher than on construction sites in neighboring countries. there is no free drinking water, workers earn $8 to $11 a day for 9 to 11 hours of hard physical labor in the heat. and then there's the accommodations. qatar's labor law requires four workers in a room. the research of the organizations has shown that on average 8 to 18 men live in a room without air conditioning! the kafala system, which leads to forced labour, has been sufficiently described here. this too must be abolished! we have all this in our resolution and we call on the government to put an end to these abuses. this includes the abolition of the kafala system. i would appeal to the members of the epp and the ecr not to vote against this, because it is a matter of life and death. the demands are also directed at fifa and the european representatives in fifa, as they have a shared responsibility to apply their pressure on the government to eliminate these abuses. the same applies to companies. we are not against the games being held there, but they should not and must not be overshadowed by such abuses. these human rights violations, to sum up, are very easy to eliminate if you have the political will.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not in qatar, the conditions are bad for the many migrant workers who are working there because of the world cup. many of them live as forced laborers or forced prostitutes. there have been many deaths. these are scandalous circumstances which must not be accepted under any circumstances! our group is in full agreement in condemning these conditions. however, a majority of the group wants to vote in favour of its own resolution, but another group wants to vote in favour of the joint resolution. i am also pleased to note that the european parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the joint text, including the one by the cdu/csu group in the european parliament, on whose behalf i am asked to state that we support the joint text - apart from paragraph 8 - and that we also support the joint text on behalf of the chairman of the delegation to the european parliament for the gulf states, mrs angelika niebler. we are absolutely in favour of a partnership with qatar. we're looking forward to this world cup. but fundamental human and workers' rights must be respected wherever the youth of the world are to meet.
i left a little more room for some speakers to speak. i regret that i cannot give all the speakers a chance to speak this time. i shall take account of those who are not on the list of speakers today and have not yet spoken.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in business, division of labor is good and right, everyone does what they do best. and that's what fifa tried to do here! we organize the sporting events and qatar provides the sporting facilities, on time and in good quality. how it was built, whether it was exploited, whether human rights were respected, fifa didn't care. but human rights are indivisible! and for me, the behaviour of fifa was and is the real scandal. that is why today's resolution is good and important and almost overdue!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, qatar, which will remain in the spotlight as host of a number of major events in the coming years, in particular the 2022 fifa world cup, is the focus of your resolution. however, i would like to see this as a stark reminder of the need to pay more attention to the situation of the millions of men and women who migrate in search of a better life. the situation of migrant workers in qatar requires significant improvement in line with ilo conventions and in collaboration with the countries of origin of foreign workers, especially as regards the implementation of existing legislation. the precarious situation of foreign migrant workers employed in qatar undoubtedly calls for urgent measures as well as for longer-term reflections on the current sponsorship system to make it more flexible and respectful of individual rights. the initiative of the qatar authorities to conduct a thorough investigation into these allegations is a welcome step. we look forward to its conclusions, which should help the authorities to address the shortcomings. the european union also welcomes the announcement made by the qatar 2022 supreme committee a few days ago that it will force companies involved in building projects for the world cup 2022 to guarantee welfare standards for workers, and we will closely monitor further developments. successfully addressing shortcomings will ultimately require constructive cooperation between local authorities, governments of countries of origin, recruitment agencies and the private sector. it is of paramount importance that the world cup 2022 act as a catalyst for social change, including by improving both compliance with labour rights and the living conditions of migrant workers. to conclude, football is an essential element; a core part of contemporary european culture and a way of life. i declare particular interest on this matter. i am not a football fan. for me, it is a way of life. as a former active footballer and football official, and a current veteran player, i see this as a litmus test for fifa and for the european representatives at fifa. it is essential that fifa aim at fair play: not only on the pitch but also on building sites and in the conditions of migrant workers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the justice system in bolivia, in particular the előd tóásó and mario tadic cases.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. yes, i find it a bit exciting that we are here in an urgent debate on human rights, defending two people who are actually accused of terrorism, at least so alleged terrorists. but i'm just saying, i'm not sure. i do not want to leave what mrs gál said as it is. the bolivian parliament adopted a resolution on 12 june 2012 inviting the european institutions, i.e. the commission, the eu's foreign affairs committee and also the human rights committee here in the house, to come to bolivia to look at the circumstances of the arrest and detention and to check whether what has been presented here is true or not. so obviously it's not true. i also have to disagree that bolivian law has been broken. i have done some research and had a long talk with the bolivian ambassador, rené fernández. firstly, the resolution itself, in recital b, states that there is no indictment, but only pretrial detention. however, recital e admits that the indictment did indeed take place on 17 december 2010, and it did. the bolivian law provides for 18 months of pre-trial detention, which can be extended to 36 months under certain conditions, which have obviously been met here. in this respect, the law is being applied quite correctly. it cannot be charged here that bolivian law, according to what i have found out and heard, has been broken. i would rather be interested in who funded these people and who is actually behind this ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr klute, i just wanted to ask you if you have ever met an ambassador from a country who told you that his country is rightly criticised for human rights violations.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not the question of credibility is indeed justified, but i have already had a very intensive discussion with him and have also had him show me the legal bases. i did not simply let him tell me something, but i asked him about the legal basis. since i understand a little spanish and have a spanish-born employee, i was able to verify this. and it was convincing, i must say, in this case. so i'm not so naive that i'm just gonna take something from somebody and just believe it.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i'd like to ask you, how do you know there's no indictment so far? the resolution of the epp, s&d, alde and ecr explicitly mentions that there was an indictment on 17 december 2010. so your statement is false! how do you figure that? then, please, explain to me why the eu or the eu institutions mentioned did not accept the invitation of the bolivian parliament to come to bolivia and ask the questions you have raised. the government and parliament are open to it!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of high representative, baroness ashton, i can brief you on the situation of justice in bolivia, and on the particular case of two eu citizens detained in the country. the eu continues to follow closely the situation of mr tóásó and mr tadić, who have been in prison since 2009 and are currently on trial in the framework of the so-called ‘terrorism case’. while recognising the competence of the bolivian judiciary to deal with the case, notably taking into account the allegations of terrorism, the eu uses all possible occasions to request that the authorities respect due process, the right to a fair and speedy trial, and human rights. within the limits of its competencies, the eu delegation in bolivia cooperates with the member states responsible for the consular protection of their citizens. more specifically, at the beginning of december 2011, the un working group on arbitrary detention found that the preventive detention of mr tóásó exceeded the limits established in international human rights standards and in bolivian legislation. at the time of his arrest, the national legislation allowed for 18 months of detention, and was later extended to 36 months. the eu has expressed concerns about excessive pre-trial detention and has constantly pleaded for the respect of the defendant’s human rights and, in particular, the right to a fair and speedy trial. the european external action service has raised the issue with the bolivian authorities on every possible occasion. commissioner piebalgs also raised the issue during his visit to bolivia last august. within the limits of its competencies, the eu delegation, which has no consular responsibility for eu citizens, has always cooperated closely with the hungarian, irish and croatian authorities whenever requested. recently, the government of bolivia has expressed willingness to undertake a deep reform of the justice sector, including the prison system. this is because, in spite of the many reforms of the justice system conducted over recent years, serious problems still affect the normal functioning of justice in bolivia, such as poor access to services, excessively long preventive detention, delays in proceedings and political interference in the judicial process. from the president down, bolivia has urged the eu to make justice a priority for future development cooperation for 2014-2020. the eu has responded positively to this request. bolivia is a pilot country for democracy support, and we are therefore firmly committed to supporting bolivia’s judicial reform through cooperation and political dialogue, provided that there is firm political and financial commitment to the process on the bolivian side. this constituted the core of the discussions that took place in la paz this week as part of the third eu-bolivia high-level political consultations. we hope that the work we are doing with bolivia in the field of justice will contribute to strengthening the independence and professionalism of the judiciary and thus strengthen the rule of law and civil rights in bolivia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
thank you very much, mr. audy. we shall be discussing this proposal in the committees and it will certainly be brought to the president. we shall report back to you on the outcome of the deliberations on your proposal.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 21 november 2013.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm going to ask you to rise from your seats. (parliament agreed to the request) ladies and gentlemen, nelson mandela died last week. we mourn a hero of freedom, a wise revolutionary, a great peacemaker. south africans say, "we lost our father". the world has certainly lost a personality of the century. for 27 years, nelson mandela was in prison, but he never sought revenge. he is responsible for the non-violent transformation of south africa from a racist oppressive regime to a democracy. it certainly gave new meaning to words like freedom, equality and reconciliation. the people who had the privilege of meeting him were won over by his charisma, certainly also by his humility and his generosity. in recognition of his struggle against oppression, the european parliament awarded nelson mandela the first sakharov prize in 1988. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our condolences to his family, to the government and to the people of south africa. nelson mandela died last thursday. but i'm sure his legacy lives on in the hearts of millions. another sad news, ladies and gentlemen, has reached our fellow citizens in latvia. on november 21, a total of 54 people died when the roof of a supermarket in riga collapsed on them. the collapse of this building is the worst disaster that has hit the country since its independence. this tragedy has shocked not only the people of latvia, but all of us. i have already done what i am repeating here, namely to express our condolences to the people of the country immediately after the disaster, but also to convey our solidarity. the victims in riga, and particularly nelson mandela, are remembered in this minute. i'd like to ask you to be silent for a minute. (parliament adopted the resolution) the commission has already made a number of proposals. in these minutes we are receiving alarming reports of a mobilisation of police and other forces around maidan square in kiev. i take this opportunity to call on the ukrainian authorities to exercise restraint and to refrain from violence in maidan square under any circumstances. we in the european parliament stand for the exercise of freedom of speech and assembly and we support the legitimate european aspirations of the ukrainian people. i call on the government, yes, i call on everyone, to seek and find dialogue as soon as possible, but above all to avoid any kind of violence. i assume i'm doing this on your behalf as well. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 december 2013 in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. no amendment was requested. the work schedule is thus established. the
the next item is the joint debate on - recommendation for second reading of the committee on fisheries on the position to be taken at first reading by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy and amending council regulations (ec) no 1954/2003 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulations (ec) no 2371/2002 and (ec) no 639/2004 and council decision 2004/585/ec (12007/3/2013 - c7-0375/2013 - 2011/0195 ((cod)) (rapporteur: ulrike rodust) (a7-0409/2013) and - recommendation for second reading of the committee on fisheries on the position to be taken at first reading by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the markets in fishery products and amending council regulations (ec) no 2371/2002 and (ec) no 639/2004 and (ec) no 1084/2002 (a7-0342/2013 - c7-0134/2013 (cod)) and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1084/2013 (a7-0413/2013 (cod)) (rapporteur: ulrike rodust) (a7-0249/2013) and the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the position to be taken at first reading by the council with a view to the position to be taken at second reading by the council with a view to the council at first reading by the council with a view to adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the market in fishery and the fisheries sector and amending regulation (ec) and amending regulation (ec) and amending council regulation (ec) no 1954/2003 regulation (ec) and repealing council regulation (
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. tomorrow we shall vote on the new basic regulation, the heart of the reformed fisheries policy, at second reading. we had a long fight. but after long and hard negotiations we have found a text which all the relevant groups in parliament and all the member states in the council can agree to. this is a great achievement, and we can all be proud of it. what have we achieved? the main problem of the common fisheries policy, namely the persistence of overfishing, is finally being tackled with this reform. the council of the european union is committed to acting sustainably in its annual decisions on fishing opportunities. overfishing must be stopped by 2015 in order to start the recovery of fish stocks. it is clarified that a postponement to a later date by 2020 is only allowed if the economic and social sustainability of the fleets involved is seriously threatened. the parliament was able to make one thing clear in this context: the objective of all measures is to increase stocks beyond a sustainable level. i can only say to the fisheries ministers that we are looking at your fingers and will ensure that these rules are also respected. the commission also reached agreement on the planned obligation to land all catches. the text provides for the mandatory introduction of a discard ban within a clearly defined timeframe gradually from 2015 to 2019 , as requested by parliament at first reading. it is true that exceptions to the discard ban may be adopted; however, these are not directly applicable, but only by a separate decision, normally in a multiannual plan. we must be careful to make exceptions where necessary. at the same time, we must not lose sight of the objective: the ban on discarding should create an incentive to fish more environmentally friendly, more carefully and selectively. the reform is broad-based. we have really tried to repair the whole fisheries policy. i cannot now present each point in the detail it deserves. so here are a few key words: we have decided on regionalisation, and in future detailed decisions will no longer have to be taken in brussels. the global dimension of our policy: we are ending the export of overfishing to developing countries, and fisheries agreements must include a human rights clause in future. we are developing aquaculture in europe in a coordinated and sustainable way. there is a fair distribution of quotas. the commission is proposing to increase the quota for sustainable fishing in future. ladies and gentlemen, this reform is not the end of the fisheries policy. we will have to continue to work hard to preserve our marine environment while ensuring a future for european fisheries. but with the reform we have created a good foundation, a good foundation on which to build. we have not yet solved the interinstitutional problems of the multiannual plans. but we have been negotiating this for the last few weeks in a very constructive atmosphere. i am glad to see that we can soon resolve this vexing issue and then turn with all our might to the much-needed multiannual plans. i would like to conclude by saying a few words of thanks. thank you, commissioner damanaki, for your tireless work on sustainable fisheries. i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency, representing the entire council of ministers. i am grateful to the commission for the support it has given to this report. and of course, a very, very heartfelt thank you to all the staff who have helped us take this important step together.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for this factual debate. from january 2014 we will have a law that will be a win-win situation for all - for the fishermen, for the environment, for the fish and for the consumers. i had a dream three years ago. in the near future, we will have so many fish in our waters that our children, grandchildren and future generations will be able to enjoy delicious fish dishes without a guilty conscience. young people will become fishermen with enthusiasm and earn so much money that this difficult profession will be worthwhile again. i have great faith in the fishermen. but those who abuse that trust will face severe penalties in the future. the marine environment is healing, and we'll only read about overfishing in the history books. today i am convinced that the dream will come true. thank you very, very much for that. and i am also convinced that we will make a historic decision tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. isn't it that we don't know exactly what's going on in the deep sea? they keep saying that the ocean is only about 10 percent explored. and it's with modern technologies like the spear-photograph and the diving robot that it's been possible to explore the deep-sea ecosystems since the end of the last century. cold-water coral reefs have now been found from northern norway to mauritania. in these cold-water corals, which are very fragile and can be easily destroyed and then not grow back as quickly as they should, there are many valuable food fish. and i think it's not clear why we should allow deep-sea trawling there. because it's also true that less than 10% -- i think it's only 5% -- of the entire north east atlantic fishery is from the deep sea. if we risk destroying an ecosystem that is good for growing fish, we are cutting ourselves in the flesh. we have just passed the fisheries reform. we should actually consistently prohibit that from happening.
i have to say, madam president, a lot has been said that is absolutely right. firstly, it is true that this agreement is economically better than the previous one, which is true. it is also true that there would be jobs in the eu and in morocco itself, including in western sahara, which is also true. there are currently some jobs for women, for example from western sahara, in the fishing industry. it's all right. i met the minister of agriculture and fisheries of morocco. he assured me that the money would go to western sahara, that he would build fish halls there and other things. that seemed plausible, too. but the problem is that the very reason why we rejected it at the time - as has already been said - namely the international legal status and human rights, has not been resolved. i am really afraid and frightened, above all, of the international legal status. if the us says that it always excludes western sahara from agreements with morocco - and many other countries such as norway - how can we say that we do not do that? even if former un judges who are responsible for the area say that this agreement is not right, how can we be in favour of it if the legal service of parliament says that it is not right? there are so many question marks. that is why i feel that we really need to see this negotiated normally - even though i know it has taken so long - with the participation of the western sahara population. otherwise we cannot agree to this. it's just not legal.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european roma information office erio published a publication documenting discrimination against roma from just three months of 2013. this shows that local and national authorities in particular - and even ministers - directly discriminate against roma or tolerate them. as in the czech republic, where in budweis for the rights of decent citizens czech citizens of course and with hitler salute under the protection of the police demonstrated against roma. as in france, where the mayor of the town of cholet publicly declared that hitler had not killed enough roma, and the french interior minister speaks of the need to solve the roma problem by deportation. or in hungary, in ózd, where the roma were turned off because they were abusing the water anyway. the same was done in turin, italy. in the netherlands, authorities have selected roma families in containers to be removed from the city of amsterdam. in romania, 15 roma were thrown out of their homes in baia mare and the government strongly defended the special education of roma children. in the cultural capital of košice, a wall was built in the 14th century to separate the city from the roma. i would just like to say that it is five minutes to twelve and we should not be talking but acting, and i expect that there will be infringement proceedings against these member states. we have no use for communications there are so many decisions we can make if we do not actively fight racism.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report contains the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the ongoing negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada. i would like to thank my colleagues for the constructive work they have done on this report. i would also like to thank our european external action service. the strategic partnership agreement, which has been under negotiation since 2011, aims to deepen political, cultural and economic relations between the eu and canada and to provide them with an up-to-date legal framework, which is no longer the case with the old 1976 framework agreement. the strategic framework agreement complements the economic and trade agreement, known as ceta, for which political agreement was reached in october. the strategic partnership agreement shall be designed in a way that respects european values and principles. canada is a democratic country, we share with canadians our ideas about human rights, fundamental rights and democratic institutions, and we have very similar standards in many areas. in many resolutions of the european parliament we have called for a common approach to eu agreements with third countries. in line with this approach, it is important that the relevant political clauses be fixed in the strategic partnership agreement with canada. the aim is to make this very special agreement between the european union and canada a positive signal and a good model for other eu agreements with third countries. i would urge the political groups to adopt the report tomorrow by a large majority and to send a strong signal to the council, the commission, the european external action service and, above all, to canada. i very much hope that the canadian government and parliament will give their timely consent once the negotiations on the strategic partnership agreement are concluded. this is the only way to ensure that the eu-canada trade agreement, ceta, which will have a very positive impact on the economies of both sides, can also enter into force immediately. as a permanent rapporteur on the committee on foreign affairs and as first vice-chair of the canadian delegation to the european parliament, i am strongly committed to continuing and deepening our excellent and comprehensive relations. the two agreements together send a strong signal to the world that honest cooperation can bring trade and respect for fundamental rights together in a good way.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. today it was in many german newspapers: the aerospace group eads is to cut a number of jobs in its defence division cassidian. as a member from upper bavaria, i am particularly concerned that the upper bavarian site at unterschleißheim near munich is expected to be closed completely. more than 8,000 jobs are at risk. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the state and the airlines was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. in addition, there are more than 150 companies that can be identified with the satellite navigation user industry. but budgets have been stagnant for years, and the industry lacks perspective. this has also had a drastic impact on the civilian sector. many companies in the non-space industry benefit from the myriad products that result from space exploration. at the same time, countless services that our citizens and ourselves rely on in our daily lives depend directly or indirectly on space, such as television, high-speed internet, navigation systems, the european-wide ecall emergency call system, and agriculture, which is also keen to use geo-data for land improvement. it is therefore time to tackle one of the biggest problems facing the space industry, namely funding. the space industry is an investment-intensive industry with unusually long development cycles. planning security is therefore a top priority for companies. companies are afraid to invest in innovation if they are not sure that they will find a buyer. i am therefore personally convinced that we need some kind of seed funding to provide money for innovation, which in turn can generate economic growth and create jobs. we also need closer cooperation between the three players in european space policy - the eu, esa and the member states - to develop, among other things, a research roadmap for the period up to 2020. this should serve as a guide for investment by the company. the european parliament has always been in favour of an ambitious european space policy. we should stick to that. galileo should be completed as soon as possible for full operational use. other benefits and advantages, such as satellite communications, need to be analysed. it is the only way to reduce our dependence on other space nations. only with a genuine european space policy will we be able to make our domestic space industry competitive and to remain so.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by luigi berlinguer and philip claeys, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'justice' programme for the period 2014 to 2020 (com (2011) 0759 - c7-0439/2011 - 2011/0369 ((cod)) (a7-0396/2013) and the report by kinga göncz, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'rights and citizenship' programme for the period 2014 to 2020 (com (2011) 0758 - c7-0438/2011 - 2011/0344 ((cod)) (a7-039/2013).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 10 december, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a union civil protection procedure (com ((2011) 0934 - c7-0519/2011 - 2011/0461 (cod)) (a7-0003/2013).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there have always been natural disasters, and there will be natural disasters in the future. my constituency was hit this summer by the worst flooding disaster imaginable. it is therefore important that european solidarity should take action here and work in various forms. the revision of the existing system is a good opportunity to increase efficiency in the work. because here - and this is what the developments of the last few months have shown - we still have some catching up to do. i therefore strongly support the creation of the european emergency response centre. because there's one more thing missing. the cooperation between the regions is something that must be improved. we saw that in the flood disaster. because if all the emergency measures available had been used upstream, the damage downstream would have been much less. we can act in a european manner here. the approach that says that structural funds in agricultural policy can be used in prevention to prevent natural disasters or their damage is also the right approach. but i have to address one shortcoming: how long did it take for the disaster fund to run out of money? so we've been here too long. and when i see my companies suffering because the commission has not yet given its approval for the money to be used, we must act more efficiently and much more quickly to achieve better coordination here and not drive companies into ruin through bureaucratic obstacles.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a great honour to welcome president keïta here in the plenary chamber of the european parliament. your country, mali, is a country of particular importance to us. we have been following the dramatic events of recent times with great attention. the events have brought terror and misery to the people of mali and have shaken security not only in the country itself but in the entire region. this deep crisis has reminded us all, ladies and gentlemen, that europe and the sahel are inextricably linked and that europe must not remain inactive in the face of events in the sahel and in mali. we are relieved to find that the worst of the horrors are behind us. thanks to the military intervention, led jointly by the international forces and the malian armed forces, thanks to the commitment of the transitional government in your country, thanks to the international community and above all thanks to your efforts, mr president, the country is now on the road to restoring the democratic rule of law. since the beginning of this year, mali has been implementing step by step the roadmap for transition, as the title suggests. the agreement reached in july during the peace negotiations in burkina faso was a decisive step in the peace process and paved the way for the presidential elections which you, mr president keïta, clearly chose for yourself. this shows the trust that the malian people have placed in you, despite the obvious social difficulties that still exist between the different ethnic groups and cultures. the malian people have given you a mandate to lead your country into a stable, peaceful and democratic future. we have just spoken about this, mr president: to all the armed groups which are acting against the unity of the malian people and spreading hatred and intolerance in the country and in the region, we say: the threats to the security of the country and to a prosperous future for mali and the whole of the sahel will surely fail if the democracies, namely the democracy in your country and the democracies in the international community, are determined to resist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament is therefore at your side, mr president. we're so glad you're with us today. it's a day to remember. one year ago today, on 10 december 2012, the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize. today, december 10, 2013, nelson mandela, one of the great african statesmen, one of the great men of the 20th and 21st centuries, is being honored in a state ceremony in south africa. you and i talked before we came here about how important your message is today. your presence here today shows that cooperation between europe and africa should go beyond today. and i am grateful to you for pointing out just now in our bilateral conversation that cooperation between africa and europe should be shaped by the spirit of nelson mandela. i would like to ask you, mr president, to give the floor to the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as an active member of the committee on petitions, i can only confirm that rights and citizenship of the union exist and are increasingly being taken into account by the citizens of the european union. this is why it is very important to discuss rights and citizenship of the union for the period 2014-2020. the committee on petitions is always the one to receive the questions and problems which often arise from the incomplete implementation of this citizenship. i am always fascinated and encouraged by the fact that european union citizens are increasingly embracing citizenship of the union. my request at this point is that when we write such a programme we must of course make sure that legal certainty is also taken into account, so that the commission can also have a better impact on member states which do not implement things as they should be implemented.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is a good example of the kind of attitude that the commission has adopted in the past, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. that is to say, on the one hand, i know that such an agreement is very, very important. i am also aware of the offers made by the european union to provide the western sahara with the necessary aid. i also know that the moroccan government has given a verbal undertaking to do just that. but i lack the faith. i simply ask that this agreement be closely monitored and that the compensation payments be monitored closely, that they arrive exactly where they were intended to. that is why i could only abstain in the final vote on this report.
in writing. - the decision to reject the fisheries agreement with morocco is neither a decision against intensive relations with morocco nor against such agreements as such. morocco is an important political and economic partner of europe in north africa. however, the fisheries agreement negotiated covers the fishing grounds of western sahara and is therefore more than an agreement on moroccan waters. morocco has occupied western sahara. the un-requested referendum on the future of western sahara is not being held by morocco, and the international community does not recognise morocco's de facto domination of the territory. the trade agreement between morocco and the united states therefore excludes western sahara as much as similar agreements between the efta countries. the eu is violating international standards and risks a lawsuit before the european court of justice. at the same time, this agreement does not ensure the fair distribution of the funds paid. without full participation of the sahrawis in the process of negotiating the agreement and without sufficient guarantees that they will be the beneficiaries of the payments and development aid, a fisheries agreement cannot be approved. the agreement will cement morocco's highly questionable rule under international law, without benefiting the local, indigenous population in western sahara. the african union had therefore urged the eu not to agree to this agreement.
in writing. - i voted for the compromise because it corrects many critical aspects of the commission proposal and the parliament's report. the eu needs to be better prepared for disasters, both at national and eu level, to act quickly and efficiently. it is right that member states themselves remain responsible for the management of aid operations and that the decision on the allocation of resources remains in national hands. the commission shall not restrict the responsibilities of member states for their operational teams, modules and support capacities. this is in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity. the massive shift of responsibility for disaster prevention to the commission, which had been called for previously, was not legally permissible. the lisbon treaty gives the member states primary responsibility for disaster prevention. in future, support and coordination measures in the context of prevention will be possible only in close coordination with the member states. i am still critical of the fact that the commission is given the opportunity to set up complementary transport quotas at eu level. the cause, extent or conditions are not clearly regulated. in addition, the commission may, by means of implementing acts, autonomously adapt the regulation in non-essential parts, including capacity targets and the identification and closure of capacity gaps in the european disaster response capacity. nevertheless, the adoption of the decision will contribute to more efficient and sustainable civil protection within and outside the union.
in writing. - i voted against the report because, like the estrela report, it does not protect unborn life. the other parts of the resolution are largely acceptable.
in writing. - the alternative resolution has won. the national states now have the burden of protecting life. subsidiarity was the only chance to prevent the estrela report. god gave life at christmas. the subsequent failures of mrs estrela, which cast doubt on her democratic understanding, are incomprehensible. winning and losing are two sides of the same coin, democracy. there are no good or bad members of parliament. mutual respect and esteem are prerequisites for successful work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. whether this vilnius summit has brought us forward or whether it has been a summit that will go down in history as very bad, will be decided in the coming days in kiev and in ukraine. i myself was in kiev when you were in vilnius and i visited the euromaidan. what i encountered there was something i had not known from my decades of work in ukraine. euromaidan, that's a celebration of thousands, tens of thousands, on sundays millions of citizens who stand up for an incredible love of their country - that's why i'm carrying this flag today - who stand up for the fact that they believe that the european union stands for freedom, equality and justice coming to them through closer ties to the european union. anyone who has been to maidan in recent days knows that in all of europe, in the west, there is no celebration for europe like that which is being celebrated at the moment on maidan by those who want to go to the west. i still can't believe that politicians of ukraine, with whom i sat at a table just a short time ago, that members of the government, that the foreign minister, who has been so seriously trying to make policy, that they will be able to send their special forces, their special forces against these peaceful thousands, millions of ukrainians who are there to stand up for freedom and democracy and for their country. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union must be the counterpart of this new opposition, which no longer has its roots in the soviet union, which came after the soviet union, these young people who are really european because they have come to know europe. and i think the most important idea that's been discussed in the last few days is the idea of stopping the confrontation, stopping the use of force, and bringing the whole thing to the negotiating table. the round table which president yanukovych organized today is not the round table that is needed. but we need such a round table, and it is the european role, it is the historic european task in this situation to confront the escalation of violence and to ensure that these negotiations take place at a round table. if we can do that, then we'll talk about vilnius differently in the future. if we fail to do so, vilnius will go down in history as the turning point for the bad in the eastern partnership. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. mrs ashton is currently in kiev to 'reconcile' after the vilnius summit. our group would always support action by the european union to prevent internal crises from escalating. but then we would have to talk about prevention here, linked to our own non-intervention and moderation. i have repeatedly criticised the fact, commissioner, that the eastern neighbourhood policy is increasingly being designed and implemented in confrontation with the russian federation and that the eastern neighbourhood countries have been pushed into a logic of yes-no decisions. the eu has thus contributed to the current conflict in ukraine and to the perhaps meagre outcome of the vilnius summit. yes, ukraine is currently experiencing a social conflict with a dangerous destabilizing potential, a conflict that is homemade, because it is essentially about overcoming today's economic difficulties and a social perspective. but how can mrs ashton convey her message if she does not say a clear word to those who want to quickly open the black sea fleet package or who, like the president of romania, intend to redraw the borders of europe by the way? where is the clear reference to helsinki and the final act? how does mrs ashton intend to convey the message when the commission has politically rejected the call for a referendum in ukraine, simply because it was a demand of the left in ukraine, but approves of the fact that the concepts of udar are being developed in eu offices? we have not heard from her about the fascists of swoboda who are still destroying monuments today, but are already shouting loudly for the overthrow of the ruling class. there is only one way out: the citizens of ukraine and indeed of all the countries from lviv and odessa to donetsk and sevastopol must once again be allowed to decide for themselves their future, including in kiev. the eu must do everything to make this possible, and everything else must be avoided. the press statement made by mrs ashton today does not convey the message of mediation. it takes a position in conflict, so it pretends one thing and does another.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the initial phase of the agreement with moldova and georgia is an important step. we should support these countries and get them to sign as soon as possible. but we must see that we are in competition with a country that denies that countries like ukraine have free choice. the decision on the path of a country is the responsibility of that country alone, not brussels or moscow. if moscow uses trade policy measures, customs policy measures, security measures in the case of armenia against one of these countries, then that is a breach of international law which should be identified as such and which we cannot accept and where we may have to be more united in our response. the door is open. we are supporting the imf negotiations. but it must also be clear that transforming the state, society and economy is not expensive, but is the only way to catch up with a modern world, that this is an investment in the future. do people want to live as in the depths of russia, or do they want to live as in the european union? the people of kiev and ukraine have made their decision, they are demonstrating for a free future ukraine. and we want to cooperate with them and we should cooperate with them closely. that is why we should support them, the courage of the opposition, of civil society, of peaceful demonstrations that should not be violently suppressed. we must call for a round table mrs ashton will hopefully get on with it today so that the people of ukraine can decide for themselves, without violence, where to go. i believe that president yanukovych should listen to his people and pave the way for them, not make deals inside the palaces of sochi. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i was part of a transformation process in my country. i know what the demonstrations in the streets of leipzig in the autumn of 1989 were like. i had the same feeling in kiev on saturday and sunday. when people demonstrate under the threat of being beaten by their government and police, as has happened - i visited people there in the hospital - when they go there with a million people in kiev, but also in other cities, then i have to say: government, listen to your people, get a round table and try to find a solution. the million on the maidan is more to me than the conversation between putin and yanukovych in sochi. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as far as i can remember, i have never seen such a passionate commitment to the european union as is being seen in kiev at the moment at the euromaidan. this is not an orange revolution, but a democratic blue-yellow revolution. the demonstrators are waving flags, and that's their country's flag, and that's the eu flag, which is hanging behind you, mr president. we have an obligation and a responsibility, given all the hopes we have raised that that is where ukraine's future lies, to help and to mediate now. that is why ukraine - and this has already been stressed by my predecessors - needs a round table in this situation, where the opposition and the government agree on the future course of ukraine. and we have the obligation and the responsibility to take the role of mediator there and to make it clear that we want to take that place as soon as possible to mediate in this conflict. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. it is unusual for a group leader to ask her colleague, but i would like to ask again, werner schulz: the round table includes the elected politicians of ukraine. but then civil society belongs at this table, too, or did i misunderstand you?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - no, i did not. i myself sat at a round table in the gdr and i know how successfully such a round table can be run. the government representatives will be there, of course, and on the other side the representatives of the opposition and civil society, which is currently expressing itself on the maidan. and they have a common solution, a consensus solution, to get out of this crisis. it is clear, and it has become clear, that the majority of ukrainians want this orientation towards europe, and this political will must be taken into account.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr siwiec, do i understand that you still have your old, faithful faith in the reliability of president yanukovych?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome our great agreement with the policy and the efforts of cathy ashton, now in kiev, if possible, to mediate. a round table, as proposed by the president, is a good first step which must be developed further with civil society, but also with the russian-speaking ones. yes, we are deeply impressed by the courageous people on the euromaidan, and that is why the request for reason and propriety on both sides is right. our message is clear: the door remains open and our willingness to talk remains. we should also think about our own policies, whether we have contributed in any way to the fact that we are where we are today, after vilnius, in both positive and negative terms. that is why it is important, mr president of the foreign affairs committee, that the kowal report is not beaten into pieces by the afet committee, but that we think about it calmly and really talk about the necessary steps. we don't want a three-way. of course not! this is not an auction! but we need to think together, with all of us, about how we can find a way forward with russia, to talk together about how we can achieve security, stability and prosperity for all, and how the old thinking of spheres of influence on all sides is slowly growing out. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. of course it is. you're right about that. as our benchmarks are being met, we need to do it as soon as possible. i think we're all agreed on that. i would be grateful if you could help ensure that your own report is not rushed through, so to speak, but discussed in a calm and orderly manner, because we have a lot to learn from what we have seen so far.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no more licking your wounds about vilnius! it is not a summit, it is not an agreement, as important as that is, it is the freedom of ukraine and therefore the freedom of europe! the same way as the ukrainians are waving the european flags, we must also - like mrs harms - wave the ukrainian flag. and we must do everything to support the freedom of the ukrainian people. the ukrainians are a profoundly european people. they are threatened with resubjectification. they are in danger of becoming a russian colony again or falling victim to so-called zones of influence. it is scandalous that this word should be used again, which is directed against the right of self-determination of peoples, a right which even lenin, with his leninist principles of nationality, propagated, only to abolish it again in the case of the ukrainians and to break his word, which is why his statue was rightly overturned, whether this was tactically wise or not. we must be clear about this: the right of self-determination of peoples is the basis of europe, and this right of self-determination must apply in particular to the ukrainian people, which has suffered so much in its history as few other european peoples have. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i am not here representing a member state, i am representing european democracy and as a european democrat i am very clear: what is at stake here is support for the ukrainian people and not sympathy for those who are trying to undermine the freedom of the ukrainian people with neo-imperialism. i am not surprised, but i am outraged by what is happening in ukraine, and that should be the common denominator of all democrats.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our eastern partnership policy remains an attractive proposition for the countries to the east of the eu. we give people hope. they know this and are therefore taking to the streets to support this european perspective, including that of ukraine. and yanukovych obviously cannot deliver, as he has proven in recent years, he cannot. at best, he can satisfy the hopes of his own family, when you look at how his sons or his larger entourage have become unrestrainedly rich in recent years. that's why we should continue to make our political message clear that everything we've offered this country stays on the table. i hope that cathy ashton today, tomorrow, and maybe the day after tomorrow, is able to get this message across not just to the president, but to the people in a way that we can continue to maintain a good outlook for this country.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. if the agreement is so unconvincing, how do you explain the enthusiasm of millions of citizens who are taking to the streets for this agreement? i just read in the new york times that there is a debate in america about what you can do yourself so that there will ever be demonstrations for trade agreements as enthusiastic as the one on the maidan. what do you mean by 'personal fate' of mrs tymoshenko? i understand that mr kwaśniewski has been in favour of the rule of law.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank all those involved for coming to a conclusion after 18 months of arduous negotiations. this is also a reason to consider that the european union does a great deal in the field of non-military preventive foreign aid. if i see that the afet instruments are worth 32 billion euros - and mr berman will be representing that in a moment - and the dci 19,6 billion euros, then this shows that the european union is doing a great deal to ensure development, peace and freedom in this world, despite all the cuts and all the shortcomings. we should also express this more often in public, because nobody is aware of it. i would like to thank you for your cooperation, even if it has been a little bit bumpy at times, and we must also consider whether in future negotiations there will not be more political representation on the side of the council and the commission, so that we can negotiate on an equal footing and take political decisions. but all the parties involved have done the essential work in our negotiating sessions on the individual reports which are still being presented here. i would like to thank colleagues kukan, rouček, lambsdorff, lópez-istúriz white and bütikofer very much. it is also advisable to join this team in the next round of dialogue, because two of the representatives - mr wigenin and mr mauro - became ministers of foreign affairs or defence, and mrs brantner moved into the german bundestag. that's why it was a career-building event. we wanted to strengthen the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the implementation of these instruments. we have only partially succeeded in this because the block of bureaucratic cooperation at european and national level was very extensive. we have not succeeded in enforcing the delegated acts as such. i admit this is a real defeat. however, we have achieved the so-called amending delegated acts, which have given us more room to move forward, particularly in the programming process. it is important that a mid-term review of relative commitment, of strong commitment has been introduced to do this. i thought that was right, we thought that was important, because it is not acceptable that parliament should decide once for seven years and then be out when it comes to legislative measures and far-reaching measures. that would mean that the next parliament, for example, would have no say in this matter for the entire electoral period, but only the next parliament after that. this is a state of affairs which would not be acceptable in any nation state, which would not be acceptable. this is something that some in the administrations of the member states and the commission have not realised or have become aware of. because that 's what these questions are all about . the real troublemaker in foreign, security and development policy is the parliamentarians who ask stupid questions and don't understand anything else. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i can assure you that we have taken a step forward and it will not be our last step on this issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. but as i said, we've gone one step further. you can show your good will by not turning the so-called strategic dialogue between parliament and the commission into a joke, mr rudischhauser, but by making a serious impact, and that is why we must make it clear that there is real parliamentary involvement and decision-making on this issue. parliament does not want micromanagement. but parliament wants to be involved in the big decisions, and only we can give the whole thing legitimacy. this is something that should be borne in mind if we are to go further with europe. i am grateful that we have succeeded in achieving greater visibility, greater coherence between the different instruments, and greater emphasis on human rights and democracy, including the involvement of civil society. as regards the common implementing rules, i am pleased to report to you that the text of this regulation reflects many of the ep's demands, for example on the so-called reflows, the specific role of the european investment bank, the conditions for budget support and also on the commission's reporting on the implementation of the instruments. i therefore look forward to seeing how the commission is honestly cooperating in the implementation of this agreement. you can be sure that we will examine this clearly and that we will not only do this again at the review, at the déjà vu, but also in between.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. as you say, i speak today on behalf of my colleague reinhard bütikofer, but i also speak on behalf of my former colleague franziska brantner, who was rapporteur for this instrument until october. the instrument for stability and peace must be situated between the long-term development policy and the more short- to medium-term common foreign and security policy. it is not only a matter of civil and military cooperation, but also of the interplay between the community policy of the commission and the intergovernmental policy of the council. compared to the other four foreign policy instruments and also to the development instrument, the instrument for stability and peace is closest to the sensitive security and defence policy of the member states. this is why member states could not agree to the introduction of delegated acts under any circumstances. the instrument is also financially comparable to the common foreign and security policy. it has a total budget of eur 2.3 billion, which is comparable to the annual resources of the cfsp. europe as a civil power has been significantly strengthened by the instrument for stability and peace. now, to sum up: we have succeeded in reforming the old instrument of stability and making it more of a political instrument for peace and security. now i want to talk about some of the highlights: we have changed the title to reflect parliament's interest in having a peace-making instrument. at the same time, it was a question of eliminating the notion of stability, which had become a shallow adjective with the arab spring. the instrument is also intended to support transition change towards peace . we have also been able to double the funds for conflict prevention, after difficult negotiations with the council. this is a great success: instead of 100 million, 200 million will be invested in the future. we have included clear language on mediation, dialogue and reconciliation in all the operative articles. we believe that the eu's policy in this area is still very much open to expansion. we have ensured that the un security council resolution on women and security can be implemented through this new instrument. the issue of gender-based violence is also addressed. we have given civil society a clear role. a separate article defines that it is to be consulted at all relevant stages of the development and implementation of measures. we have also ensured that there is a structured dialogue between the foreign service, the commission, eu representations in crisis regions and civil society. so the so-called peace-building partnership will go into the next round. we now have an article in the new instrument which commits the foreign service and the commission to strictly review counter-terrorism and cybersecurity measures for their compatibility with international human rights standards and international humanitarian law. this is one of the key achievements of many negotiating rounds.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the european union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. for all the criticism we sometimes have here of the european union as a whole, when you see people in ukraine today walking through the streets with the european flag, it is precisely these principles that people yearn for, it is precisely these principles that these people are fighting for. these principles are also the guiding principles for the european union's external action as a whole. that is why it is important that we have in our foreign policy toolbox an instrument that specifically deals with democracy and human rights, the european instrument for democracy and human rights, or eidhr. what is an instrument? an instrument is basically, if you want to put it in a general way, nothing more than a pot of money and rules on how to access that money, how to spend it. we have been negotiating for a long time now how this should be done over the next seven years. the instrument for democracy and human rights is complementary to the other instruments, namely the geographical instrument. in concrete terms, this means that it only takes action where, for example, in development cooperation, in neighbourhood policy, in cooperation with the candidate countries, human rights policy does not achieve something that it should. and this instrument has one great advantage: it does not depend on the approval of the governments where it is used. so where there is a need, this european instrument for democracy and human rights is there. what does that mean, exactly? with this tool, we can help human rights activists, ngos, individuals who are in a particularly difficult situation - take for example belarus, take certain countries in the arab world, take countries in other regions of the world, in latin america or in asia - who are under pressure. then we can help. we can provide shelter, we can provide material assistance, we can help in the fight against torture, we can help in the abolition of the death penalty worldwide, we can make sure that minorities are not discriminated against. these are the objectives of the european union. this is a policy of the european union which is highly respected throughout the world. on the subject of minorities, i must say that it is always surprising that the member states of the european union cannot agree that there are minorities. we are only allowed to speak of persons belonging to minorities. but everybody knows there are minorities. in germany - in my country - we have a sorbian minority in the east and a danish minority in the north. we know that there is a german minority in eastern belgium. of course there are minorities. it would be nice if the council could make some progress in the next negotiations. for the first time, it has been possible to incorporate a fundamental right to manage a business into economic and social rights. i'll be honest with you, that was important to me. we have also established a fundamental right to a decent standard of living, and of course corporate social responsibility is also one of the objectives of such an instrument. in other words, we have created a broad and flexible instrument which we hope will help to advance human rights policy. elmar brok said it just now: the midterm review of the next parliamentary term is very important. the next parliament must also have a right to set the strategic course for the implementation of this instrument. this has been a very contentious point with the member states. these are the same member states that sometimes complain about the lack of democracy in the european union. fortunately, at this point, at least one step in the right direction has been taken. and finally, democracy. election observation is also carried out under this instrument. sometimes it's a little too bureaucratic in the application. i am therefore pleased that it has been possible to include a reference to the european endowment for democracy in the regulation which lays down the common rules for all the instruments. that's good, we've created a new device, an instrument that's more flexible. the budget for democracy and human rights will be increased by 20% over the next seven years. the european union is well placed to meet the expectations of the world.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur for the dci for the perseverance he has shown on this important dossier and also for the result he has achieved for all of us here. i would like to say again from the point of view of the trade committee that a number of our suggestions have been taken up. in particular, at regional and local level, trade can and must contribute to the positive development of the economy and society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, i would also like to stress that unfortunately a large part of the funds will in future be restricted to the ldcs alone. i would also stress this in the light of the experience gained from the difficult debates and negotiations just concluded at the ninth wto ministerial conference and the wto parliamentary conference. the unctad representative called for a much more precise and far-reaching rethinking of the relationship between trade and development in the present day, in order to make an active contribution to the interests of people and their future. for poor people in 19 countries, who are above the per capita gdp threshold and therefore outside the geographical cooperation, the chances of overcoming poverty are now decreasing. we need more cooperation, not less.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we have received a small gift just in time for christmas, namely the decision on the instruments of foreign policy. this is important and right, because the european union is not an island. we have neighbours to the east and to the south, and their problems can easily become our problems. that is why we need an active neighbourhood policy. the principles and methods of cohesion and regional policy have helped to promote internal cohesion in the eu. these best practices and principles should also be applied in neighbourhood policy. more than ever, we should seek cooperation at regional level and strengthen it with civil society representatives. the new neighbourhood policy instruments offer many opportunities for this, such as the application of the already proven eu legal instrument 'european neighbourhood policy' or the integration of neighbourhood policy into macro-regional structures. we should take this opportunity; the people in the neighbouring countries are waiting, as we are seeing in ukraine now. the people of russia are also our neighbours, and we should not forget them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are also talking about foreign policy instruments with a high degree of intervention, up to the goal of regime change or the building up of police and military forces, which can then also support repressive regimes, as for example in the congo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim of the trilogue negotiations of the last two years has been to get the european parliament to do this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the aim was to increase the transparency and participation of the european parliament. but in the end they were blackmailed by the commission and the council. the general implementing arrangements for all the instruments and the instrument for stability are based on the previous comitology procedure. better than nothing but it wouldn't have taken two years of negotiations! as regards the involvement of the european parliament, there are a number of memoranda of intent, which are called 'strategic dialogue' or which take due account of parliament's opinion. whatever the meaning of these statements, they are not legally binding, nor are the annual reports. i would also point out that the eac is responsible for drawing up such foreign policy intervention programmes wherever the security-related approach is applied: everything is subordinated to the eu's security and geostrategic interests.
rapporteur. − madam president, i welcome the satisfactory outcome which should allow the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) to remain the eu’s flagship programme in support of human rights ngos and human rights defenders around the world. the eidhr funding is an integral part of the eu’s human rights policies. government-to-government engagement alone will not sufficiently enact the change we call for in authoritarian or transition countries around the world, namely real and long-term changes brought about by innovative civil society organisations and courageous individuals at grassroots level. at a time of a shrinking ngo space and a net global regression of democratisation tendencies, the eidhr support is as important as ever. finally, i regret that again economic, social and cultural rights remain largely neglected and i call for the eeas and the commission to be more creative and to pay more attention to these rights in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. thank you for your contributions to the discussion on the instrument for stability and peace. in conclusion, i would just like to point out that all actions of the instrument for stability and peace must take into account the following principles: the promotion of democracy and good governance, human rights and humanitarian law, including the rights of children and indigenous peoples, non-discrimination, gender justice and women's empowerment, conflict prevention and climate change. so if you vote tomorrow for the new instrument for stability and peace, you will strengthen the eu as a civil power, as a strong actor in conflict prevention. i would like to conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, mr kelam, mr gualtieri, mr lambsdorff and mrs lösing, on behalf of mr bütikofer and mrs brantner. i would also like to thank the lithuanian presidency's negotiator, mr mindaugas silkauskas.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have been working in albania for more than 22 years. i have followed developments there and i am glad that this country, which was the high-security route of communism in europe, has found its way after so long and is now able to have taken this important hurdle and to have the prospect of candidate status. it is true that in the last eight years a lot has changed for the better. the conditions for candidate status have been created. the governments of the last eight years have set the course. we could have discussed what we are discussing today a year ago if the opposition at the time had not boycotted parliament and thus prevented important decisions - legislative decisions - for months. but now it's finally here. the last election was a success, and the change of government was also orderly and smooth, which has never been the case before. the opposition has assumed its role. what i am particularly pleased about is that the climate in parliament has apparently also changed the procedure in favour of the opposition, so that it may now be possible to change the political climate. because these verbal insults, which are constantly being given from left to right, from right to left, are unbearable. actually, you should be ashamed of yourself. we in the epp group believe that albania should be given candidate status, it has earned it. that does not mean that it will become a member tomorrow, as has already been said. but it does not mean that we are in favour of starting accession negotiations now. that is why we shall vote against these proposals. we will be actively and constructively accompanying the country on its way to the european union and hope that the council will take the decision proposed by the commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this discussion today of the annual report on the occasion of international human rights day is a timely one, and i also welcome our eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, here to discuss it with us. this annual report provides a solid and comprehensive overview and many valuable recommendations on the eu’s human rights policy. thank you, mr kukan, for your excellent work as rapporteur. the adoption of a strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy has clearly given all of us an important tool to implement and monitor the eu’s human rights policy, and i urge the eeas and member states to stick to their commitments and to effectively implement this action plan. on some of the specific issues, i welcome the call in the report for an eu position on armed drones. i welcome the strong reference in the report to the business and human rights nexus and to the issues of coherence between internal and external eu policies. the eu’s human rights policy statements and commitments cannot and should not be disconnected from its other policies, such as trade and migration, which directly impact on the enjoyment of human rights outside our borders. i call on the eeas and member states to do much more to mainstream human rights in these external polices. in this regard i regret that the entire reference to migration policy, including frontex and readmission agreements, as well as to other internal eu human rights challenges, such as the situation of the roma, detention conditions, and the accountability of secret services, were rejected by the committee on foreign affairs. a human rights policy is not one of pick and choose; it starts at home and it should cover all areas, particularly the most difficult ones.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike mr tannock, i am convinced of the universality of human rights and consider them to be at the heart of our political and intellectual life. but precisely because this is so, because man is a man and therefore has rights - there are no chinese and asian and south american people, but there are only people - precisely because this is so, we must also keep this concept of human rights clean. we should therefore refrain from turning human rights policy into an ideological battleground, as mrs estrela has done today. i am crystal clear: human rights policy must be made by consensus. it must build on the universal declaration of human rights, whose anniversary we are celebrating today, on the council of europe's convention on human rights and on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we have a clean and clear base to stand for what is truly universal and not ideological or cultural.
the committee on budgetary control adopted an opinion on the proposal. i am particularly pleased, mr president, that the red tape has been reduced and that the budgetary authority has to decide within a month whether or not to initiate the procedure for granting aid. it is also positive that the employees of small and mediumsized enterprises are included among those entitled to apply to this fund. the same applies to the fight against youth unemployment. i welcome the exception adopted to include until december 2017 people not in employment or education or training. the fund is not able to provide effective solutions to the wider problem of unemployment facing the european union today. to reduce unemployment effectively in the european union, we need to focus on practical solutions with long-term effects and a solid foundation.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, commissioner andor, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. as the author of the opinion of the committee on regional development for this report, i would point out that regional policy, or unemployment, always has a regional component. in my own country, germany, we have regions with unemployment rates of up to 20%, and other regions with almost full employment. this shows that the fight against unemployment has a regional component. the fund for combating the consequences of globalisation is helping the regions affected to cope with the sudden rise in unemployment. the committee therefore clearly welcomed the report. the weakness of this fund is that it is clearly too long to react, and that is why the committee on regional development has been involved in making proposals to simplify and speed up procedures and has - to my great satisfaction - successfully campaigned to keep the scope of this fund from being extended to farmers.
i have to say, madam president, the egf has again provided eur 150 million this year to help workers find jobs and acquire new skills. the message is clear: the eu does not leave people out of work because of economic dislocation. the egf is an incentive to integrate into labour markets. it cannot replace the social policy commitments of the eu member states, but it can effectively complement them. this must go hand in hand with national education policies. in the eu, more than two million jobs are unfilled, as jobseekers often lack the required qualifications. the specific eu support programmes and the intensive cooperation between employment services, vocational guidance services and educational institutions are helping to remedy this situation. we have made a start with the european youth guarantee. private and public employers are encouraged to provide sufficient training and jobs, even beyond their own needs. the european co-financing can achieve a lot: measures to reintegrate people into the labour market, further training, retraining. this increases the chances of a future-oriented working life.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, my thanks to mr tremosa and the other rapporteurs for producing parliament’s report on the 2012 competition report. the main theme of our report was that competition policy is essential to preserve and deepen the single market so that it can boost growth and job creation. your response, and parliament’s study of last july on the contribution of competition policy to growth and to the eu 2020 strategy, confirms that we hold the same priorities. i have read with interest the suggestions and ideas in the draft resolution. today i can only address some of them, but the commission will provide a detailed written response in due time. first of all i want to welcome your positive reaction to the new banking communication we issued last august. thanks to it, we will continue to use the state aid rules to preserve financial stability, minimise the cost to taxpayers and ensure that restructured banks resume lending to companies and households. as to our broader efforts to modernise state aid rules, the strategy is approaching its final stage. all the main elements of the package should be in place during the first part of 2014, and the new system will respond better to today’s challenges and will be easier to comply with. your draft resolution notes that in 2012 we have focused on state aid rather than on the other instruments in the competition toolbox. however, last year the commission also enforced anti-trust, cartel and merger rules with great force. earlier today we adopted a decision, with fines, prohibiting an agreement between two pharmaceutical companies that had the object of delaying the entry into the dutch market of the generic version of fentanyl, a potent painkiller used by cancer patients. i welcome parliament’s continued support in the fight against cartels. last week the commission took its first decision regarding the investigations into interest rate derivatives. we reached settlements with eight financial institutions which had violated eu anti-trust rules, and we fined them eur 1.7 billion. some banks have not participated in the settlement, and normal proceedings will continue against them. we have also continued our action in technology markets, especially in areas such as e-books, standard essential patents for mobile phones, as well as in the field of online search, for which a second set of commitment proposals by google is being market tested with stakeholders. just to answer the precise question raised by mr tremosa, on the second market test or consultation finalised yesterday, i will assess with my team in dg comp the responses we received from this round of consultations and in the coming weeks i will make up my mind and i can of course share with parliament my conclusions regarding the next steps in the procedure. in mergers and acquisitions, in 2012 we blocked two deals: ups/tnt and ryanair/aer lingus. we cleared 12 cases with commitments and approved almost 200 cases without conditions. we have worked on a merger simplification initiative that will cut red tape and reduce costs for businesses. we have also started to reflect on the control of minority shareholdings, an area where parliament has also requested action. the next step to advance the initiative would be a white paper to be adopted in 2014. i have promised to table a proposal on anti-trust damages actions. as you know, the commission adopted a proposal in june. i believe that our proposal strikes the right balance to reach its dual aim, to make damages compensation a reality in all member states and to strengthen public enforcement. as you are already working on the proposal i will not go into details. i would just like to welcome the progress made, namely the general approach reached at the council last week. responding to parliament’s call to look into developments in the food chain, dg comp’s food taskforce monitors the sector in line with the newly reformed cap framework. we are preparing practical and focused guidelines in this regard. i am convinced that the new agricultural policy provides an appropriate framework for the enforcement of competition rules and it helps to maintain a productive, strong and effective agricultural sector. referring to social services, i can confirm that it is for member states to determine the scope and quality of services of general interest such as social housing. social housing is a public service that enjoys preferential treatment under specific state aid rules for services of general economic interest. the commission’s role is restricted to ensuring that the public funds earmarked for public services are not misused. finally, the report stresses the importance of completing the single market in various sectors, in line with the view of mr tremosa. energy, transport, telecoms and payments services are mentioned in particular. i fully agree with your view of the need to complement and to complete the single market in this area. the college of commissioners is coordinating regulatory and competition enforcement efforts to achieve our common goals in these sectors.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to preface my comments, as this year’s shadow rapporteur on the annual competition policy report, with my hearty thanks to this year’s rapporteur. there has been a very constructive dialogue with a lot of spanish colleagues in this area. the outcome this year again – as last year – shows that constructive work has led to a very serious result. i would like to thank you all wholeheartedly for this. apart from this, i think we all agree in general that competition policy must remain at the heart of the european single market, and we always welcome the commission’s actions in applying competition policy to the various cases that are brought before you. those cases that are not brought before you, commissioner almunia, you try to look up yourself. meine damen und herren, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! darin liegt ein stück weit auch der beweis, dass der europäische binnenmarkt funktioniert, weil diese unabhängige behörde der gd wettbewerb akzeptiert wird und erfolgreiche arbeit leistet. gleichwohl stellen wir natürlich fest, dass die zahl der settlements deutlich zunimmt, dass die fälle, die tatsächlich von amts wegen ermittelt werden, immer weniger werden. am beispielsfall von google, den kollege tremosa bereits angesprochen hat, zeigt sich natürlich auch, dass wir einen gewissen shift erleben, auch im bereich der wettbewerbspolitik, und auf diesen shift werden wir gemeinsam reagieren müssen. ich möchte mich, nachdem der fall google bereits ausreichend mit fragen an herrn vizepräsident almunia vorgetragen wurde, vor allem noch einmal auf den punkt zu den fining guidelines konzentrieren und meinen wunsch, dass wir langfristig einen voluntary compensation scheme erreichen. nachdem meine zeit um ist, danke ich ihnen für ihre aufmerksamkeit.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 19 and 20 december 2013 (2013/2626 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am pleased to take part in this morning’s debate on next week’s meeting of the european council. there is a heavy agenda, with a range of issues covering defence, economic and monetary union, and economic and social policy. let me start with defence. next week’s debate on the common security and defence policy is particularly timely. it comes four years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and takes place against a background of some disillusion about the value of europe. it presents us with an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the added value of europe, or – to put it differently – to highlight the cost of non-europe. and i know that this is of particular concern to this parliament which, together with national parliaments, contributes to the december 2013 european council debate. defence budgets are shrinking and our fragmented european defence industry is struggling to remain competitive. if member states harmonised their requirements for military capabilities, they would be able to use their resources more efficiently. if they could decide on a shared approach on the use and maintenance of assets, they would benefit from much greater capacity than is available at the national level. the example of air-to-air refuelling is particularly striking. no single member state can afford on its own to maintain an adequate refuelling fleet. through close cooperation among ourselves, but also with our partners, notably nato, we can increase overall capacity, reduce costs and be more efficient. this is equally true for the european defence industry. our technological and industrial base is fragmented. if europe wants to maintain strategic autonomy and ensure the security of supply, action is needed at european level. furthermore, creating a more competitive and integrated european defence industry will also stimulate job creation, innovation and growth. heads of state or government will of course also look at the broader political picture and set directions. how can the union respond in a comprehensive manner to the rapid evolution of europe’s strategic and geopolitical environment and address new security – notably energy, cyber and maritime – challenges? how can the union assume its responsibilities as security provider for maintaining peace and security together with its key partners? next week’s european council is likely to identify a number of priority actions built around three axes. firstly, to enhance the effectiveness, visibility and impact of our common security and defence policy. the union’s ability to bring together, in a coherent manner, policies and tools ranging from diplomacy, security and defence to finance, trade, development and justice can still be improved. secondly, to enhance the development of defence capabilities. i have already mentioned that cooperation between member states is crucial. significant progress in delivering key capabilities can be achieved through pooling demand, harmonising requirements, coordinating defence planning and development of capabilities, and ensuring interoperability including with key partners organisations such as nato. finally, to strengthen our defence industry. to achieve this, we must improve the synergies between civilian and military research and national and eu research. we can also reduce costs, harmonise demand and enhance interoperability by developing defence industrial standards and certification procedures, without duplicating already existing ones. this will also help promote greater access by smes, which are a key driver for growth, to these markets. we are witnessing a gradual recovery in the economy, with a slow return to growth. but with unemployment figures soaring, we cannot be complacent. further efforts are needed. it is therefore vital that heads of state or government put all their weight behind the efforts to consolidate this positive trend. next week the european council will come back to the issue of economic and monetary union and will carry out an assessment of the economic situation in the member states and the euro area on the basis of the 2014 annual growth survey published by the commission on 13 november 2013. work will also continue on reinforcing economic policy coordination. let me say a few words about this second point. as you are well aware, over the past three years the eu economic governance framework has been substantially reinforced, with the active support of this parliament. the european semester process – which has just started for 2014 – brings together the different strands of economic governance into a coherent process. but there is a need to enhance the effectiveness of the coordination of the economic policies of the member states and in the euro area by increasing member states’ commitment and ownership when implementing the country-specific recommendations and the reforms towards competitiveness, growth and jobs that these entail. for this reason the december european council will focus its attention on these issues: contractual arrangements and associated solidarity mechanisms. contractual arrangements and related solidarity mechanisms should facilitate and support the reform process. our objective is to enhance ownership, effectiveness, democratic legitimacy and accountability. contractual arrangements will be built on existing procedures and next week’s european council is expected to decide on the principles which will underpin these arrangements. although economic reform is in the interests of member states, the long-term gains are sometimes difficult to assess immediately. to overcome the short-term economic and political costs, contractual arrangements need to be combined with financial incentives – the so-called solidarity mechanisms. however, conditionality and monitoring based on observable milestones are essential when designing instruments for financial support. it is intended that the european council will agree on the main features of both the contractual arrangements and solidarity mechanisms. let me conclude on this point with a few words on the social dimension of emu and the completion of the banking union. on the social dimension of the emu, the european council is expected to confirm the decision on the use of the scoreboard of employment and social indicators in the joint employment report. the objective is to include the scoreboard in the 2014 european semester governance cycle. however, the analysis of social indicators should not dilute the aim of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure as a detection, prevention and correction tool for macroeconomic imbalances, which is significant for the functioning of the emu. the european council will also assess progress on completion of the banking union. this is a top priority, since it will help restore normal credit throughout the union and prevent credit crises in the future. following the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism, further work is needed on the completion of the architecture of the banking union. this includes the bank resolution and deposit guarantee directives on which we are close to agreement. the lithuanian presidency is working very hard to reach a general approach on a single resolution mechanism by the end of this year. you may know that this issue was discussed at yesterday’s ecofin meeting. as i have already said, we are putting every effort into making it happen before the end of this year. i know that you share our assessment of the importance of this file and the need for us to reach agreement by the end of the end of the current legislative cycle, as well. the european council will also assess progress on the implementation of the compact for growth and jobs agreed in june 2012, in particular in relation to single market acts i and ii, youth unemployment and the financing of the economy. these are of course issues which are key to delivering a return to prosperity and creating employment. the european council will also return to the issue of migration in the mediterranean, following the tragic accident off the coast of lampedusa. to avoid such disasters happening again, the european council requested in october that the commission-led task force identify priority actions for a more efficient use of european policies and tools in the short term. it also decided to consider migration issues from a longer-term perspective next june, when it will discuss the area of freedom, security and justice. next week’s european council will take stock of the operational decisions identified following the work of the task force and the discussions by justice ministers last week. i should add, by way of conclusion, that the european council is also expected to look at enlargement issues – as is usual in december – and to welcome two energy council reports on progress to create the eu internal energy market and on developments since 2011 regarding strengthening the external dimension of eu energy policy. the reports will serve as a further impetus to continue our work in the energy sector, which is key to european competitiveness, growth and security of supply. the december european council will be a further step towards consolidating growth, creating jobs and improving competitiveness in europe. we look forward to a constructive discussion and a meeting that will produce results which will show that europe can make a difference.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, president barroso would have liked to be here with you for this important debate, as he usually is prior to each european council meeting, but he decided to take part in the memorial ceremony for nelson mandela, one of the greatest political figures of our time, and therefore i am honoured to be able to present to you the commissionʼs assessment ahead of next weekʼs european council. over the past twelve months, the commissionʼs message to you has consistently been the following: enormous efforts in fiscal consolidation, in structural reforms, in financial marketsʼ stabilisation and, last but not least, in active solidarity have been made within the european union. if we manage to sustain these efforts we will see that our crisis response will ultimately succeed. as we meet today, we see that it is working already. we are starting to see the results. economic indicators point towards a slow but significant upturn in both growth and confidence. the situation in all programme countries has improved and stabilised. this is most visibly emphasised by ireland’s graduation from its adjustment programme and it is hard to think of a stronger signal, first and foremost to the citizens of ireland but also to citizens all over europe, and then of course also to financial markets and international lenders. ireland’s commitment and sustained efforts are paying off. this is the right moment to pay tribute to the resilience and determination of the irish people and their political leaders throughout this process. the irish example shows that linking responsibility with effective european support and solidarity has proven to be the right answer. we should all see this as an encouragement for other countries under adjustment programmes. the commission is confident that their hard work, which is ultimately our common hard work, will also pay off in the end. latvia adopting the euro as of next month is another indication of confidence in the euro as our single currency. in economic terms 2013 has been a turnaround year in this crisis. the year 2013 has been a successful year for other reasons too. i am thinking of our joint achievements to agree and adopt the multiannual financial framework. i am thinking of our breakthrough in creating a single supervisory mechanism in the banking sector. we have taken new steps in reforming the european unionʼs economic governance. i feel encouraged by the way in which the european semester, and in particular the coordination of national budgets, is developing. but we must be absolutely clear that we need to maintain our efforts. the recovery cannot be just for some. unemployment and hardship remain part of a very harsh reality for many european families. so we cannot and will not leave the job half-finished. that will remain the commissionʼs message to you and also to the european council next week. now, at next week’s summit meeting, we need to take this forward. we have a chance to make 2014 a very successful year. we have to continue on our reform path as set out in the commission blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union. the economic governance framework that we have now fully implemented for the first year with the new tools of the two-pack is a massive improvement on what was in place before the crisis. but it needs to be completed. we should go even further to ensure the sustained stability of the euro area for the coming years. we owe it to our citizens and we owe it to our countries and especially to those who have suffered so much to recover and remove the debris from the last crisis. we know we still have to go further to prevent the next one.for this, we need to first of all complete the banking union by putting in place a single resolution mechanism and the single resolution fund. the commission appreciates the efforts made in this house to advance quickly in forming your views on our proposals. now it is for the member states to fully engage in the debate and to come to a general agreement this month. some progress was made in the council last night, and i am confident that an agreement will still be reached before the european council meeting. it is important that we can fully conclude on this crucial piece of legislation before the european parliament elections. linked to this, following last night’s further discussions in the council, there is good reason to hope that agreement on the two pending proposals on bank resolution and recovery and on deposit guarantee schemes can be achieved in the trialogues before the end of the year. completing the banking union must be our most immediate and most important objective. however, the work will not be finished with this. we need to underpin our model with an even more credible and coherent system for coordinating economic policies across europe, coupled with effective solidarity. the european council next week will therefore continue the reflections on contractual arrangements and associated solidarity mechanisms. contractual arrangements, together with solidarity mechanisms, can be an important tool to ensure that important structural reforms take place in an effective and timely way. these new arrangements would constitute one additional step in our governance to improve the follow-up of country-specific recommendations and they would include the possibility to provide financial incentives to support implementation of the reforms. the commission adopted a communication on those instruments earlier this year. but let me stress again that this is not a way for brussels to make life difficult for member states: quite the opposite! the disciplinary element is already deeply enshrined in the european semester and in the fiscal treaty. now it is a question of reinforcing the agreement aspect that allows more involvement by national political actors and stakeholders, and the process should be agreed from the bottom up. we also need to discuss how to make the solidarity element more concrete, so as to provide the necessary help to finance these reforms – after all these reforms are in the common european interest. this is all about stronger commitment, ownership and implementation, to the benefit of the euro area and the eu as a whole. the commission hopes that the european council can flesh out next week some basic principles on this issue, which would form the basis for further work to be taken forward during the first half of 2014. first and foremost, we need to be clear about firmly anchoring contractual arrangements and solidarity mechanisms in the existing framework of the european semester. we need to focus them on those policy areas with the most likely effects on competitiveness, employment and the functioning of the emu. we need to agree on their scope and engage all euro-area countries, while leaving the mechanism voluntary for non-members. financing the solidarity support should come from all participating member states, whether in the form of budgetary support, grants, loans or guarantees and it should reflect the ambition level of reforms and the shock-absorption capacity of the receiving country. the second major item on the european council agenda is the common security and defence policy. the need for a common approach to defence matters has never been so crucial. the commission has been calling for progress for some time already, notably in this house in all of president barrosoʼs state of the union speeches. with our communication of last july – ʻtowards a competitive and efficient european defence and security sectorʼ – the commission has pushed this debate higher up the european agenda. we have set forth concrete proposals towards a more competitive and less fragmented european defence industry. we want to sustain and enhance europe’s military capabilities and the european union’s autonomous action. we have to work towards a more cohesive european security and defence policy mainly for three reasons. firstly, because we need an effective and visible common security and defence policy as a tangible expression of our international commitments; we need to be able to back up our values and positions with effective security and civilian missions whenever and wherever necessary. through eu battlegroups and speedy deployment of eu civilian missions, we can show that we are as good as our word. we also need critical technological expertise and autonomy in key capability areas. new threats and challenges, such as cyber security and trafficking of human beings, make the link between our internal and external security dimensions closer than before. secondly, we need to go further in this area also because public budgets across europe are under pressure. the only sensible way to match increasing ambition and decreasing resources is through more cooperation. today, more than 75% of investment in defence equipment is still spent nationally. we need to avoid duplication of programmes; it makes no sense that we need seven models of the same helicopters or sixteen types of frigates serving the same purpose, while the us has just one. we need to share assets and develop common standards or we will risk losing critical expertise and autonomy. economies of scale and efficiency gains can and should further strengthen our defence capabilities. thirdly, also in this area we talk about economic growth and employment. the defence and security sector directly employs 400 000 people and indirectly generates another 960 000 jobs in europe, with a turnover of eur 96 billion in 2012 alone and eur 23 billion of exports in 2011. to maintain those jobs the need for innovation-driven competitiveness is huge. we want our companies to remain competitive on the world stage. we need to invest in a knowledge-based industrial network able to generate cutting-edge defence technologies, by exploiting the dual potential of research. we also need member states to fully implement the 2009 directives opening up defence procurement. we want and we have made proposals to promote greater access by smes to defence and security markets. we also intend to do more to develop standards in critical technology areas and to promote a common approach to certification, a key enabler of industrial competitiveness. we are putting emphasis on space and satellite communications, to propose new approaches benefiting the security and defence sector. this is not a debate for europe alone. our common security and defence policy is developed in close cooperation with our partners, notably the united nations, nato, the osce, the african union and strategic partner countries and organisations. we owe it to them to make our efforts as focused and as effective as possible because pooling our resources and know-how is the way to do it. so with the discussion taking place within the european council, the commission hopes to generate real ambition and momentum for closer defence cooperation and synergies among member states. we need a more integrated and competitive industrial base, in cooperation with the european defence agency as well. this house has always been relentless in its support for a stronger, more united european union, a union fit to secure and improve the welfare of its citizens, and a union ready to take up its rightful role in international politics as well. issues on which the commission and parliament have cooperated over the last months and years – each time raising the bar and adding to the momentum for european action – have recently made real progress. on migration, for instance, the commission expects that the european council will endorse the need to move forward with the concrete actions which flow from the work of the task force for the mediterranean. the lampedusa tragedy has made it painfully clear that we need to step up border control operations and enhance our capacity to detect boats in the mediterranean. it has also underlined the limits of national policies to deal with a large and complex problem such as illegal migration flows, showing the need for more assistance to member states with particular migration problems and real solidarity. let me recall that the commission is setting aside financial support of up to eur 50 million including emergency funding, and in support of italy in particular eur 30 million has been set aside, including for border surveillance operations under the frontex mandate. the nature of the problems calls for such support, to the benefit of all of us. in order to improve the fight against trafficking, smuggling and organised crime, practical cooperation and exchange of information must be reinforced with third countries too. regional protection programmes can be made stronger, notably for northern africa. our resettlement efforts can be a lot better and, together with member states, we should explore how to open new or better legal channels to access europe, for instance for seasonal workers, students or researchers. last but not least, we need to step up our cooperation with third countries. for instance, new dialogues on migration, mobility and security should be launched with a number of southern mediterranean countries, notably with egypt, libya, algeria and lebanon. the european council will also take stock of the progress made in implementing the compact for growth and jobs and the two sets of single market act proposals. there is positive news to report but there are still some important proposals where we can and must make progress still during this term. member states need to deliver on their commitments. just to give one example which the european council will address next week: taxation policy, in particular the fight against tax fraud and tax avoidance. an action plan was adopted a year ago. the commission has made the necessary proposals for an advanced and comprehensive system of automatic exchange of information between tax administrations, and for tighter corporate tax rules against aggressive tax planning. we are pursuing negotiations on stronger tax agreements with switzerland, andorra, monaco, san marino and liechtenstein. the european union is also a key player in shaping the oecd work on global standards. but yesterday, once again, the ecofin ministers failed – given the opposition of two member states – to reach agreement on the savings directive. i hope that together with you we can keep up the pressure to make progress in this area. finally, the european council will hopefully agree on giving concrete impulses to improve companies’ access to finance – and smes in particular. we have already made headway. the european investment bank has significantly and successfully boosted its activities following the capital increase agreed last year. the eib and the commission have together explored further ways to develop risk-sharing instruments that can leverage resources from the eu budget with eib support. at next week’s summit, the commission will continue to push member states in their ambition to use and improve such activities. let me conclude with a few remarks on the situation in ukraine. i know you had a plenary debate on the eastern partnership yesterday afternoon. i believe this is a topic which cannot pass unmentioned also in our debate this morning. let me recall in clear and plain terms the position of the european commission: european values and principles must be respected. this is particularly true for the ukrainian authorities but it is true for everyone, of course. especially after what happened last night, we have to reiterate that violence is never the answer. the solution must be found by political means, and this solution must be found through dialogue with the ukrainian opposition and civil society. president barroso has already spoken twice with president yanukovych on the phone after the vilnius summit, calling upon him to show restraint in the face of recent developments, not to use violent force against peaceful demonstrations and to respect the fundamental freedoms of ukrainian citizens. the high representative/vice-president of the commission cathy ashton is in kiev today, on the ground, in order to assist in finding political and peaceful solutions to the very tense situation that ukraine is living through today. the people of ukraine have clearly demonstrated that they support ukraine’s european choice. our offer to ukraine to sign the association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, remains on the table. but the necessary conditions outlined in the council conclusions need to be met and the current political tensions need to have a peaceful solution. i welcome that this was also the very large consensus that emerged from your debate yesterday. on all these things which i have just mentioned, the commission and parliament have worked hand in hand for the european common interest and will continue to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that now - at least after armed special forces cleared and partially destroyed the offices of the opposition parties in kiev - this parliament is united in its support for organising a very strong presence in kiev. last week, that decision was not possible. i very much regret that there was no such will to be in kiev as an official delegation of parliament on the maidan this weekend. we might have been able to prevent something. i hope that this will now change and that we will be able to adopt the resolution we discussed yesterday together today. the european union's major weakness in kiev is that it does not really act with a single policy. as far as ukraine is concerned, the very great weakness of making a policy on russia out of a single cast is being shown time and again. i do not hope that those who want freedom and democracy in ukraine will now have to pay for this incompetence of the european union. on security and defence policy, we are in danger of putting that horse on its back. i think it is right that we should reflect on how we should envisage our common security and foreign policy. where do we want to be in five, ten years? what are we learning from military intervention? what do we learn from atlanta? what lessons can we learn from the french intervention in mali or from the flight of european soldiers from afghanistan? what do we need together? if this is put at the beginning of this debate, it really helps to make better, more common policies. given the tight budget in the european union, given the situation that we have very, very little money in our budget for common social policy or for the fight against youth unemployment in the european union, now the idea of buying drones and other equipment from the european budget - oh my god, what is going on here? this is not the way to turn the tide in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. without the european parliament and some of our dedicated colleagues, such as our sven giegold and philippe lamberts, we would not have the first pillar of banking union, we would not have banking supervision at all. and whether we get this resolution fund, which would be very helpful to justice in europe, fed by the banks, is still on a page that is almost unwritten for me, because everything is blocked again. ladies and gentlemen, mr verhofstadt has mentioned the requirements we need to make the euro stable in the long term, to get out of the crisis. we must take these important steps in a common fiscal and economic policy. but what you have presented, mr šefčovič, is the opposite! if you want the history of greece to repeat itself - a country that was ready to discuss reforms at the beginning of the debate, where there was a mood for reform - if you want this history to repeat itself and that the mood for reform simply becomes fear of the future, that more and more people flee to the right and into populist movements because they no longer have any hope for europe, you have to force these contracts, these treaties, as you are now proposing. it is anti-european, it is undemocratic and my group will never support it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. yesterday the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons won the nobel peace prize, and a year ago the european union won the nobel prize. why not use the summit next week to actually announce a vision, a vision that we are the european union, the union that will make a massive contribution to the world to reduce the arsenal of weapons in the first place? the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons has already destroyed 80% of the world's chemical weapons. it now has one of the most difficult tasks of all: to dismantle chemical weapons in a country torn by civil war during this civil war. what are we gonna do? we're organizing an arms summit! we are organizing - and i ask that it be taken as i say it - a summit of the arms lobbyists! that is not the task we face, and it is not what the people here in the european union are asking of us and expecting of us. it's like we're living in a parallel world. we have a european union that is torn apart by the crisis, and what are we doing? we are discussing whether we cannot make better and more effective use of the funds available from the budgets of the member states of the european union and the european budget to build even more expensive systems, more effective systems, more uncontrollable systems! finally, it is no wonder that eads is coming out right now, just before the summit, and saying: we have to save because you do not have enough money, because you are not doing enough or are not being effective as member states. this is not just the horse being backed up, this is the completely wrong direction this horse is going. we cannot be allowed to act in this way! the figures you refer to can be interpreted in a completely different way. the european union is spending 26 billion euros a year on armaments, more than what is actually allocated to national budgets. the mirror speaks of 130 billion euros that could be saved. but you can also say that you can do without it altogether. the only way this makes sense in your logic is if the politicians tell the military what is really happening. it's the other way around! in our lives, in our political lives, it's the arms lobby that tells politicians what to do. look at eads. they are not in a position to introduce satellite radio in germany within a decade, for 30 years the dispute has been about the eurofighter! what do you expect? and that's what i don't understand, why we're acting so blue-eyed here and pretending that we're the ones who are now in charge of building a more effective defense system. as long as armaments are at stake, there will be no possibility either at european or national level of reducing the whole to the needs of defence and of ensuring the defence of the population. that is a misconception, and i should like to warn you against it. i would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that unless we take the imbalances within the european union seriously, unless we, for example, from the council, put more pressure on the federal republic of germany to reduce and correct what it contributes to this imbalance, unless we accept that the profits, the export surpluses and the export profits of the federal republic of germany are the debts of others, we will not get out of this misery either.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a word on ukraine: when i see what happened again tonight, that the initiatives of mrs ashton and the americans have not helped either, i almost have to say: the iron curtain is coming down again. here, by means of russian pressure, a people's freedom, its freedom of choice, is being robbed. and i think we must make it very clear in our resolution that this is not acceptable. but i agree with mrs harms that this also has to do with the fact that we do not have a real common policy on russia. the questions which are being discussed in the european council, the questions of the common foreign and security policy, are of great importance. we are for nato. we believe that nato is complementary, that we need nato for collective security. but we also need to develop and use our own skills. if there is no european arms industry, we can only buy elsewhere and are not independent. the industrial policy approach is not the only one that is important here. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. the budgetary constraints show that we have increasingly armies that are made up of bureaucracies and no longer of the ability to act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we cannot wait for the americans in the european neighbourhood to steer this through nato as a whole. we do not want to be vassals of individual member states either. i have the impression that british politics is becoming the dazzle of american politics and is no longer characterized by independence. we must develop our own european skills to bring our performance to this level. we do not want to be just global payers, we want to be global players, and we need to create the conditions for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since the european parliament has been in office, we have achieved greater efficiency through legislation for a better economic, stability and growth pact, through a better six-pack and two-pack and all these possibilities through the european parliament! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very important step in the process of european integration. the national parliaments must have the right to develop and decide on the national programmes which may be supported by a community budget. as these are national issues, the ownership of the national parliaments must be clearly involved. i think that's very important. but only in this way can we really achieve competitiveness integrated into social policy , and on the basis of community policy. i would like to make one final point, mr president. what i have heard from mr farage not about the euro anymore, but about migration is cheap populism at the expense of other people. cheap populism, you know? (applause from the centre) the european union has all the instruments to prevent people from entering a country who are unemployed, who do not have health insurance, who are not self-employed. you don't have to give them social benefits. if you apply european law in the uk, you will not have the problem you are presenting here in a populist way! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! there is no legal basis for that, even if i wanted to. the programme is the implementation of the lisbon treaty to achieve european skills in the division of labour. for example, we cannot have a european army from a german point of view alone, because there is the parliamentary reservation of my own national parliament. that is why it is a scare tactic which has nothing to do with the reality of european politics. that is why we are talking about division of labour, to save money and bring together more capacity. you in britain are no longer able to finance a reasonable army on your own. but if we do division of labour here, we are better together as europeans and so is britain. europe is about pooling and sharing, as this programme of security and defence policy says. by combining our capabilities to reclaim sovereignty for our new peoples, which they can no longer guarantee on their own. you no longer understand this project, you prefer to become a small state in a global context rather than playing a role in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if we ask ourselves today which institution is the greatest obstacle to the economic recovery of the european union, that institution has a name. it's called the european council. this is the place where no clear policy is defined, where no conclusions are drawn from one's own mistakes, where new terms are constantly invented for a pseudo-politics without clarifying who really bears the political responsibility for the corresponding measures. you 're a fan of these new partnerships . the commission has also made a statement on this. just answer the following questions clearly: who's negotiating with who? what money is used to pay for the financial incentives? who makes the programs? where is the parliamentary scrutiny for such a policy? what you are putting in this house will only lead to you organising a new troika policy, a new troika policy, a failed policy, without drawing the conclusions from the totally unbalanced, radical market but antisocial strategy of the troika. you cannot seriously believe that you are ordering the music, that the commission is nodding its head and that this house is then financing the event from the european budget. it's not gonna work. the european parliament will demand a different policy from you. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with mr bullmann's criticism 100%. angela merkel had announced this idea at the last summit dinner. i would now like to know how the social democrats, who have been holding coalition talks with mrs merkel, intend to implement this position, which mr udo here represents, in cooperation with mrs merkel,
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am happy to answer the question put by mrs harms. rebecca, why do you think i know so much about this subject? because i had the opportunity to engage with him so intensely. we social democrats believe that this policy should be subject to the democratic control of the european parliament. we said that before the negotiations, we said that during the negotiations, we said that after the negotiations. the commission must answer the question why it does not have the courage to say, for example, that we can do this in the european semester. we do not believe that undemocratic policies can be allowed to continue. in the process of all those involved, we will discuss with those who are responsible how democratic control can be organised. that is my position, that is the position of the spd group, and it is commonly known as the social democratic position.
madam president, i would like to ask my colleagues to welcome, with me, a delegation from euromaidan. they arrived this morning. colleagues, they left kiev yesterday evening and they are happy for all possible meetings with you. they are sitting in the public gallery right now. please welcome those who are fighting peacefully and non-violently in the streets of kiev. (loud applause)
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes parliament’s approval of the financing instruments for the eu external action. these instruments will enable the eu to continue to be a global player and promote its interests and values. democracy, peace, solidarity, stability and poverty reduction, as well as safeguarding global public goods, will be at the heart of external action for the next seven years. the instruments allow us to pursue cooperation with our external partners on four policy priorities: enlargement, neighbourhood, cooperation with strategic partners and development cooperation. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, as well as those who preceded them, for their constructive contributions to the negotiations. we should be proud of what we have achieved together.
i have to say, madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for my group, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues, and in particular mr tremosa, for their excellent cooperation on the annual report on competition policy. i am sorry to say that there has been a slight error in my group's voting list. the epp group would like to abstain on amendment no 5 to paragraph 73. this is incorrectly entered. thank you, thank you.
i have to say, madam president, there's been a mistake in our voting list. our group would like to vote against the second part of paragraph 26. so, minus, please!
i have to say, madam president, it is extremely important that we have discussed and voted on this report today. on the other hand, it could also be said to be a sign of how incomplete and discriminatory the conditions are for so-called domestic workers. first of all, it is extremely important to define this work as work. we should not be under any illusions, but we must also say that, of course, black labour must be banned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. and the second is, if work is done, of course, there's a decent, sustainable income that comes with it. this includes the right to pay social security contributions. the third factor is, of course, that the whole thing is then carried out in an unbureaucratic way. but i would like to make one more point: black labour remains black labour and should ultimately be banned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i thank you very much, mr president, for thinking first of the epp group. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs for submitting this report, including our colleague mr trzaskowski, who has now disappeared into the distant poland. i think that there was a good team with mr gualtieri. i think this is an important issue. this is an important issue because it must be made clear that we want a balanced europe, with a reasonable balance of content, including in decision-making processes. i therefore expressly agree with the view that the european union is not only an event of economic success, but that economic success must also be socially embedded. but i also think it is important to make clear with this report that, given the disruptions we have had due to the financial crisis, there should be no pressure now to move away from the successful model. the european union has been so successful in comparison with all other international organizations because it works according to the community method, because it can legislate directly, because decisions are taken by majority in the council of ministers, because it has a parliament which has provided legitimacy and has also made improvements. the intergovernmental method is destroying all that. we must also make it clear that this development must not lead to the building of new walls in europe. it must not lead to the european economic union now becoming an event of the 18th, all the others except the united kingdom can join the european monetary union, they are even obliged to do so except for copenhagen if they meet the conditions. that is why we must make sure that there are no new institutions. the community institutions must act. the euro is a currency of the community, as mr šefčovič rightly said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not an intergovernmental event, which is contrary to the spirit of the lisbon treaty. it is quite illegal, and we should not let it get out of hand in our hour of need. i therefore think that the community method, the unity of the european union, is an avant-garde solution for those who can take the lead, but openness for all and therefore not the destruction of the unity of the european union under one of the institutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i thank the rapporteurs, roberto gualtieri and rafał trzaskowski, for a really excellent report on a very complex subject. it is an excellent report that we have here. the crisis of the last three years has been a set-off for the unity of the eu and for the balance of power within the eu. the report summarises these aspects: we want to keep the unity. it is the european idea to bring countries together, not to drive them apart. but we also want to make it possible to move forward in deepening integration. we know that monetary union must be supplemented by a genuine economic and financial union, if we wish to go further towards political union. the explosive sentence was the evasion of intergovernmental methods, the endangerment of the community method. the council has become more powerful, the commission has become more powerless. we want the commission to be the executive and not the council. parliamentary control is also involved. the council - and above all the european council - cannot be controlled by us or by the national parliaments. it is very important that this control can be exercised by the european parliament and, where necessary, by the national parliaments. we do not want a european parliament. but if there is a budget for the euro area, then there will also have to be a euro-committee here in parliament of colleagues from the countries concerned, without us diminishing the rights of the other colleagues. we do not want any blockades in the eu. if a country cannot or does not want to participate, that is its business, but it should not be able to block the others. therefore, all possibilities of differentiation must be exhausted. but we do not want to be picking raisins, and we do not want a europe à la carte. we need unity and diversity within unity, and the report expresses this very well. i see that we have 24 ideas for necessary changes to the lisbon treaty. so parliament is once again calling for a better european treaty, a better treaty basis, to be created in the next period.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank rafał trzaskowski and roberto gualtieri very warmly for this report and for the excellent cooperation between the groups on this report. i would also like to say - this is addressed to all of us - that i am a little concerned that we often have very heated discussions about legislation here, but that we often have far too little time for these really big debates on the future of europe and are often very late. i wish we'd had this debate sooner. but it's all the more important to lead them today. there are differences of opinion in this parliament on a great many issues. it cannot be otherwise, because we represent 500 million citizens, representing a great diversity of opinions in and about europe. but there are a number of issues on which all the serious democratic members of this house agree. that is what i want to talk about. the point is this: we must not jeopardize the unity and democracy of europe! the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. it is not building europe, it is destroying europe. the same is true of democracy. anyone who believes that he can govern europe in the long term with short-term powers, with unelected bodies, procedures and institutions that are not sufficiently democratically and parliamentarily legitimized and controlled is destroying this europe and, above all, what is the substance of europe - democracy and the trust and consent of the people. that is why it is so important that we talk at the heart of this report about how we can now find a viable and sustainable architecture for europe after this breathless phase of rescue measures. this can only be a europe in which binding decisions are taken by parliament, and by this one parliament. the idea of having several parliaments, one for the euro area, one for other tasks, is an idea that puts the axe to the substance of europe and to european democracy. the second is that we need a convention - we have made this very clear in this report - which, with the participation of national parliaments, the european parliament, governments and, in particular, civil society, citizens, works to secure the new foundations for a lasting europe, for solidarity and democracy. i believe that the europe we must build together must be a europe of democracy and citizens in the long term. i would like this parliament, when it meets again after the elections, to draw the conclusions from the reports we have adopted and to ask for an amendment to the treaty and the convening of a european convention under article 48 teu.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work on this report. i would also like to express our regret that the proposals of our group have not been reflected in the report. the report addresses some very important issues, such as how we deal with the fact that the council is increasingly undermining the community method, that it prefers to remain outside eu law in resolving crises, that the balancing of integration requirements and enlargement policy requirements is becoming much more complicated, especially in the context of increasingly cultivated conflicts of interest between member states, and that the current powers of the european parliament and its accountability to it are no longer sufficient. the conclusions drawn from the report, ladies and gentlemen, are understandable, but we do not share them. what are the points we don't share? for months now we have been discussing here in the house the inadequate legitimacy of the current eu policies and the eu institutions and their role in this. the report fails to address the democratic deficit at its core. it does not propose how to bridge the gap between the european union, its policies, its institutions and its citizens. admittedly, the report calls for greater involvement of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to introduce a reverse qualified majority in the eu framework to ratify future treaties without the consent of all member states. it's not gonna work. the concept of differentiated development, which is developed in the report, is closely linked to this. it is geared towards a stronger application of article 20 of the eu treaty in order to move forward in the future with business as usual through enhanced cooperation. our group wants to see changes in eu policy and not 'any more' through coalitions of the strong, the good or the willing. this includes developing governance in the eu on the basis of the community method, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. it may be slower, but it is consistent with and calls for a deeply democratic return to society. the report does not take sufficient account of the growing imbalances between economic policy and social and employment policy. it refuses to accept the call for a social charter which would put labour rights on a par with the four fundamental freedoms. the report does not even take into account the proposals of the employment committee. the conclusion is that the questions are answered, but the answers are far behind the eu's current reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the lisbon treaty has brought about a number of institutional changes. we have now spent a whole parliamentary term working on and with these changes and we find that some have worked and some have not and we want to draw conclusions from these changes. one of the institutions formally newly created in this form is the european council, which has created a strange institution, one whose members are accountable to their respective national parliaments, but which, as an institution, is accountable to no one or only to itself. this is a problem which is already being illustrated by the thin ice on which we are currently moving here in europe. i think that is not healthy in the context of democratic development. the european council has significantly expanded its role under the pressure of the crisis, and has become increasingly involved in the area of legislation in which it has no formal competence. the report we are voting on today, for which i would like to thank alain lamassoure, makes a number of proposals to remedy this: changes in the calendar, improvement of the formalised relations between parliament and the council, the introduction of a regular debate here in parliament with the council, with the european council and about the council, reports before and after the european council meetings. i want to say specifically: i support these measures - also on behalf of my group - but i think that they will not be enough. i believe that we cannot counteract the growing tendency towards regovernmentalisation, towards technocratic absolutism, towards top-down politics in europe instead of bottom-up politics, by exchanging letters and interinstitutional agreements, but in the long term only by formulating new treaty bases which place both the first and the second chamber on the basis of democratic elections and thus ensure greater democracy and the division of powers in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr lamassoure remembers very well that at the last convention, president giscard d'estaing, against the great resistance of the great majority of the convention members, insisted that the european council should become an independent body. many of us have feared that the leaders of our countries and governments would develop a dynamic of their own, a life of their own, and that is exactly what has happened. we note that this body cannot be controlled, either by the european parliament or by the national parliaments. mr lamassoure has made some suggestions on how we can reduce this democratic gap. we can't completely prevent them, but we can reduce them. we need an agreement between parliament and the european council, accountability before and after the summits, the president coming here to explain to us and also to hear what we have to say. it is no longer appropriate that our president should only speak at the opening of a summit. if there are issues which affect the rights of parliament, then it must also be involved in those issues. i ask mr lamassoure: we have some precedents where the european council makes legislation which it is not allowed to make. should we not go to the european court of justice and challenge it in future cases? the test now comes with the european elections. in fact, van rompuy and the individual members should declare before the election that they accept the citizens' vote and not play with it after the election. in the long term, i agree with andrew duff: the european council should become a formation of the council: it should become the general council, as it would have a lot of work to do and could be very useful in the eu's institutional structure.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as is underlined in the report, the fact that under the treaty the european council has no legislative functions is very important and must be taken into account. in reality, very often different council formations cannot complete their work and send the open files to the european council so political agreement can be sought. i think that, as was stated in the report, we have seen quite a few such occasions over the last few years. therefore i think that todayʼs debate very much reflects this new tendency and i understand very clearly the wish of parliament to organise better the bilateral working relations between parliament and the european council. let me remind you that the commission has a positive assessment of its framework agreement with parliament. it has allowed our two institutions to establish clearer rules on various issues where potential conflict could not be excluded at the outset, and to settle them in a manner which ensured good and on most occasions, very smooth, cooperation. i believe it will be important for the council to be fully involved in any future revision of the framework agreement, so we can also cover these parts of eu cooperation. i have to say that in my discussions with the ministers in the general affairs council there is already, i would say, a positive inclination to have discussions of this kind and to approach the future framework agreement discussion positively, with the clear intention that the council should participate in them, which i find a very encouraging sign. the commission also agrees with parliament that the european council should take into account the outcome of the european elections and the appointment of the president of the next commission, and fully respect all relevant treaty provisions. as you know, mr barroso proposed that the political parties should nominate their candidates for this post because this would add additional democratic credentials to this process and would bring increased political visibility to the process of elections for the european parliament and to the process of nominations for the commissionʼs president. so i would like to express my appreciation and thank the honourable members for this debate and the rapporteur, mr lamassoure, for the high quality of the work on the report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the european stability mechanism is an international financial institution, established through intergovernmental treaty. while the signatories of the treaty establishing the esm are 17 – and will soon be 18 – member states of the european union, the esm is a separate intergovernmental institution and is not part of the union’s legal framework. it follows that the council is not competent to discuss matters relating to the set-up of the esm, and it has certainly not discussed the issue of the establishment of an administrative tribunal for the esm – the so-called esmat. furthermore, since lithuania is not a member of the esm, i am not even qualified to address this issue from the perspective of an esm member. the esm itself would be much better placed to answer your questions. i can simply state that my understanding is that article 33 of the treaty establishing the esm, which includes an obligation on the esm board of directors to lay down the conditions of employment of the managing director and other staff of the esm, constitutes the basis for the establishment of the esmat. in addition to this provision, article 18 of the esm by-laws states that ‘staff rules shall also define appropriate procedures for the consideration of complaints and grievances of individual staff members’. it is therefore the staff rules of the european stability mechanism which create the basis for the establishment of an independent tribunal. from my comments at the outset, you will appreciate that i am not in a position to comment on the appropriateness of the establishment of this tribunal. in general, however, it is of course important from a governance perspective that esm staff are able to address their complaints and grievances to a body which is independent from the esm. similar tribunals can be found at other international financial institutions such as the imf, the world bank and the ebrd. i understand that the esm has taken all necessary measures to minimise the cost-impact of the establishment of this tribunal, since members of the tribunal will be remunerated for each tribunal meeting and will not receive any full- or part-time salary. the provision on incompatibilities does not exclude tribunal members from any other office, except at the esm itself. i should add that the esmat would have no impact whatsoever on the eu budget. as regards the esm budget, this is entirely a matter for the esm governing bodies. i am sure that the esm board of directors has contemplated the benefits or otherwise of the ecj’s civil service tribunal taking over the tasks of the esmat. esm staff are not eu civil servants, and any decision to confer this role on the european union civil service tribunal could have an impact on the eu budget. i cannot add to these brief comments. as i said in my opening remarks, this is not a matter for the council. if you wish to pursue the issue further, i suggest you address directly the esm and its governing bodies.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to start by thanking the four members of the european parliament for their questions, because it shows that we all take an active interest in the establishment and development of the european stability mechanism. i believe that we would also agree that the esm is a critical tool in our crisis response, a tool that has shown what kind of progress the eu is capable of and in such a short period of time. it will continue to play an important role in financial stability and in our ability to address sovereign problems should they occur. therefore, the commission fully supports all measures to ensure internal best practice befitting the world’s largest international financial institution. before turning to the specific issue in front of us today, i think it is important to underline, as the honourable members have done in their questions, that the esm is an independent, international financial institution outside the treaty framework. the commission is only an observer in the esm governance framework and thus this reply is based on the knowledge and understanding of the situation from the side of the commission. the esm has an employee count of approximately 100 individuals, whose flexibility should enable its structure to adapt to the situation in hand. this includes in relation to employment and in the specific case before us today: employee grievances. the administrative tribunal under discussion is intended to allow the esm to address staff-related matters and employee grievances in a manner befitting an international financial institution on the global stage, in a similar way to other global financial institutions such as the world bank, imf and ebrd as well, because they have similar administrative tribunals. the staff rules and the statute of the administrative tribunal are in fact documents already approved by the esm board of directors – representatives of all shareholder member states – and this is fully in line with the esm government structure and the established responsibility of its governing bodies, as laid out in the implementing treaties. let me stop here for a moment and make a few short points of clarification. first, the administrative tribunal is to be made up of five independent members, whose role will be to pass judgment, if you will, on disputes and staff-related matters of contention. these individuals will be restricted from holding another post at the esm, either before, during or after their tenure on the tribunal. this is clearly to avoid a conflict of interests. they are, after all, supposed to be independent. costs associated with their work will indeed be borne by the esm, but these costs, including pay, will be commensurate with the cases they handle. there are no fixed costs associated with their roles and the pay will not be representative of any formal permanent position. the esm remuneration is confidential but the fee structure will compare favourably with fees paid to judges by other public international organisations. lastly, i reiterate that these individuals will not be barred from holding any position; just any position with the esm. consequently, there is neither expectation nor intention of a significant cost related to their job and it would thus not appear to be a disproportionate or inappropriate use of the esm’s administrative funds. i would remind you, however, that those funds do not carry an eu budgetary impact and are fully under the auspices of the esm members. this now brings me back to the first sub-question, as to where or why the administrative tribunal is even possible. article 33 of the esm treaty allows that the board of directors, representing all the esm shareholders, should lay down the conditions of employment for the managing director and all other staff. the board subsequently adopted the staff rules that govern the esm, staff rights, and the terms of employment, which in turn provide for the establishment of this administrative tribunal. these various documents just have to be read in conjunction in their entirety. third, i would like here to take a moment to point out that the esm does indeed have the alternative alluded to by the honourable members, namely to make use of the ecj civil service tribunal. this option is not as straightforward as it may at first seem. on the one hand, we must remember that the esm is not an eu institution or agency and therefore has no legal, straightforward access to the jurisdiction of the civil service tribunal. in order for the esm and its staff to gain such an access an agreement would have to be agreed and established between the esm and the european union. this would likely take some time – the indications are approximately 18 months – as there are many actors involved and it is not something that can be done unilaterally by either the ecj or the esm. the pringle case cannot in itself result in the granting of such access. in the meantime, the esm has to decide how to proceed. it cannot simply ignore the need for appropriate and legal measures with which to address staff grievances in a timely manner. from the point of view of the esm, the best legal avenue at this time is, therefore, to establish an administrative tribunal so that the esm can remain fully compliant with best practice norms. i do not believe the need for timely response in staff-related matters is something we could dispute. i would make one last point before turning over the floor to the honourable members. i understand that the esm has striven to ensure a fair, equitable and appropriate response in this matter, but it remains an independent institution whose governing bodies have agreed to such internal administrative matters in full understanding of what they mean.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am a little shocked at how well the statement by the council and the commission is coordinated on a matter which is important for the coherence of a community policy - the euro is a community policy. the shock here is the commission, but i can still understand the council. i am now, after the comments made by mr šefčovič, clearly convinced that the use of the ecj would be possible. the pringle/ireland judgment does not say that this is preferable, but it does say that it is possible. we are therefore facing the same problem. the introduction of a separate administrative court for 100 people - no matter what cost estimates are made - is ridiculous in itself. secondly, since the way has been cleared for the european parliament in the esm - and i and mr gualtieri were the rapporteurs - i assume that this is part of a european union mechanism, even though the esm is legally independent, as has been rightly stated. but in order to link these two aspects together and not to allow them to be separated, it would certainly be better to bring them into closer contact with the community institutions, so that we can have a unified legal system on this matter, also through the european court of justice, and not have new intergovernmental developments. these are all writings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this is so cheap compared to the esm budget, then it would also be cheap compared to the european budget if these judges of the european court of justice had to deal with cases involving a hundred officials on a case-by-case basis. that is why we are referring to the fact that the european budget is not burdened. i think that is a bit superficial, if i may be so cautious as to say so. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the subject. so to say that it is somewhere in the middle of nowhere, perhaps it should be placed in washington, given the practical proximity to the world bank, that would be perhaps more honest. dashier the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and if you let this go on, it will continue, and we will have a further fragmentation of the policies of the union and of the member states of the union, which have given themselves to a union policy - the euro is a union policy - an organ that is de facto more and more isolated in this way. i am shocked that this cannot be undone, and i can only express my sadness at the european commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i must also express my surprise at this process: 100 employees, five people in a tribunal to settle labour law issues. we have a european court of justice and a special body there for labour law problems. in reply to our question as to why this is necessary, why this has to be brought up in this form by the esm, we were told by the council: please contact the esm. but this is in direct contradiction to the commitments given to us by the council when the esm was actually enshrined in the european treaties. in the council conclusions of 24 and 25 march 2011, you promised us that the european parliament would be regularly informed by the council and the commission council and commission! about the work of the esm. that means that you as the council are still responsible, you took on the responsibility at the time, to be the voice of reason here. by referring us back to the esm, you are failing to live up to the responsibility you assumed at the time to convince us to agree to the esm as an intergovernmental body. on 24 september 2013, we had a guest in the econ committee, mr regling. the transfer station continued. mr regling refused to answer some of the questions specifically as regards information on our house and referred us again to the eurogroup. that's when the cat bites his tail. so what this means is that i expect you to make a clear statement as to how you stand to see another facility established there. and i would like the commission to tell us in writing what legal processes, what decisions have to be taken to enable this tribunal, and ultimately the functions of this tribunal, to be established at the ecj. it would have helped us all. the taxpayer would save money and europe would not slide further into a democratically-calm zone of intergovernmentalism.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. as you all know, the power and influence of parliament under the lisbon treaty has been strengthened in terms of trade policy, but also in the area of comitology procedures - that is, now delegated acts and implementing measures. as a result of this treaty, a number of regulations in the field of commercial policy and the decision-making procedures contained therein had to be adapted to the new legal framework. this large omnibus i package contains more than 20 regulations, including the anti-dumping regulation and the anti-subsidy regulation. after years of legislative work and very intensive trilogue negotiations, we were able to reach a political compromise in june. it wasn't an easy process, but in the end, we came up with a good solution. i would just like to highlight a few elements. firstly, the role of the member states in the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings conducted by the commission has been a matter of dispute until recently. the council wanted to ensure that the member states had a substantial right to information and to be heard at all stages of the procedure, known as info+. the european parliament, however, insisted on the clear respect for the treaty of lisbon and the fundamental political reorientation of the institutional balance in trade policy. the european parliament, at least, demanded that member states should not be given any rights beyond the status quo. in the end, the treaty of lisbon has strengthened parliament, something which was not at all apparent in the commission's proposal. and on this line, which i have just outlined, we have agreed. secondly, parliament successfully negotiated against the commission's request to extend the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings to 18 months. it remains at the current 15 months. i think that is important, because if a case is to be brought, it is important to have legal certainty as soon as possible and to know what is going on. thirdly, in the context of all the safeguard regulations, we have been able to ensure that the political compromise found in the south korean safeguard regulation becomes the blueprint for all the others. the examination procedure is now applied only to final decisions. in the case of provisional or temporary decisions, the advisory procedure must be used. in one procedure the council has more say, in the other the commission. given the number of legal texts covered by omnibus i and the considerable number of amendments made to them, there is a need to provide access to a user-friendly consolidated version, including all changes. in order to improve the readability of the text concerned, it was therefore agreed that the commission would present a consolidated version by june 2014. i would also like to draw attention to the link between the omnibus and the modernisation of trade protection - this is the report by mr christoph fjellner. omnibus i contains a number of procedural amendments to the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations. we have only adapted the procedures here in order not to touch the very heart of trade defence, which should be left to the modernisation of trade defence instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i hope to get broad support in the plenary. i would like to thank all those who have taken part in the negotiations: the commission, the council and, above all, my colleague mr jörg leichtfried. we have been able to deal with omnibus i and omnibus ii in parallel and in a very collegial manner. it was a very pleasant work.
member of the commission. − mr president, commissioner de gucht is unfortunately held up today in a ministerial meeting with pacific counterparts. in his absence, let me start by thanking the rapporteurs, ms quisthoudt-rowohl and mr leichtfried, together with the chair of the committee on international trade (inta), professor moreira, and parliament for your work and close cooperation on this file. this package is updating the decision-making rules in eu trade policy in the light of the implementing and delegated acts introduced by the lisbon treaty. with today’s discussion preceding parliament’s final second reading vote, we are nearing the end of the legislative process. following the last trilogue on 5 june and the international trade committee’s endorsement of its result on 11 july, the european parliament is asked today to endorse its second reading position. the text in front of you is fully in line with the outcome of the trilogue and is fully supported by the commission. by endorsing the council’s first reading position, you will finally allow for the entry into force of both acts and their implementation. as we all know, arriving at this point in the legislative process has not been easy. it has taken a long time; perhaps too long, with nearly three years between the commission’s first proposal and its entry into force. we will also agree that a number of concessions have been needed on all sides in order to reach a compromise. let me assure you that the commission has acted as expediently as possible in order to reach this point. it would also be fair to say that, with the adoption of both regulations, the eu trade policy framework is undergoing another major shift. with the lisbon treaty and the rules governing implementing powers in place, we have managed to find a new institutional balance that will govern the adoption of implementing and delegated acts in the area of trade policy. this is a major achievement. having the new procedures in place will allow us to act swiftly to implement the common commercial policy and assist eu operators more efficiently. while streamlining our decision-making processes, we will be able to act in a more timely manner, gaining further credibility on the international stage. i would also like to confirm the declarations made by the commission as part of the trilogue. in particular, the commission will now proceed with the codification of the regulations concerned by the adoption of the two omnibus packages. as agreed, this process will be initiated by 1 june 2014 at the latest, further improving the legibility of the new legal framework for all stakeholders. let me close by thanking again, on behalf of commissioner de gucht, the rapporteurs and parliament as a whole for your engagement on this important file. the commission will faithfully move to make sure the new framework functions effectively.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating colleagues quisthoudt-rowohl and leichtfried on their work. what you have done here in the last few months with your shadow reporters is very good. i am very pleased that we can conclude this subject this year. what is the essence of delegated acts? the point is that we are empowering the commission to act as legislator itself in some cases. but it means more responsibility for all of us. this means that we as legislators must, in any legislation, especially in the field of trade, give more and more thought to what we as legislators want to regulate and what are the details that we do not regulate and on which we leave the commission some leeway. we shall be dealing with this very intensely in the next few weeks, particularly in the context of the trade defence instruments. but for the commission, this also means: what do we do about delegated acts? how detailed? i would like the european commission to concentrate on the essential issues here, unlike other projects - i am thinking of the ban on light bulbs, the water quantity in toilets or the ban on oil cans - particularly in the area of foreign trade, and not to create more problems for us with the delegated acts. for us as legislators, as control bodies, i wish that we would really think hard in the future: what commission delegated acts do we accept? what concerns do we have to raise in committee? what are the issues that we might then be able to clarify with the commission in committee? and what are the issues that really need to be discussed in plenary? i am thinking in particular of the vote tomorrow, when we are voting on delegated acts. i believe that a vote tomorrow on the delegated acts on the gsp+ is one of the examples that we could perhaps have avoided in the plenary and which, in my view, could have been clarified in committee. i would therefore like to thank once again all those who have dealt with this dossier. i would be glad if we in all the institutions would take up the additional responsibility, including here in the area of trade.
member of the commission. − mr president, without entering into much detail, let me stress that by adopting this interinstitutional agreement, the commission will now be able to react even more swiftly to defend european interests, working at the same time and in strengthened cooperation and contribution with the institutional partners. by adopting these two regulations, the european commission looks forward to implementing the new rules in early 2014 and to activating the decision-making procedures and communication channels as established under the new framework. with the new structure in place, we will continue to monitor the functioning of the system in order to make it more effective and intelligible for our citizens. finally, let me conclude by stressing our appreciation for the sense of urgency that the european parliament attached to these two files, especially now, in times of intense legislative activity.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in short, since the treaty of lisbon, trade competence has finally been in democratic hands, and this is a complete novelty for our continent. if i may say this in a negative way, it is ironic that this has taken so long because the commission wanted to leave everything as it was, the council wanted to have more powers all of a sudden, and they were surprised that parliament said: wait a minute, the treaty gives us clear possibilities and we want to use them! the fact that this compromise was reached in the end is actually a good thing. it means we worked well together. mr de gucht, you said that the commission would be able to act even faster and better. that is true, and that is why we had to have this whole negotiation on omnibus i and ii. they will be able to do it, but parliament will be able to observe better and control the executive better, and we will undertake this arduous work in friendship.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament's vote tomorrow shows that banking regulation can also put the interests of socially weaker citizens at the centre. consumers, social organizations, debtor associations and migrants have been calling for years for the initiative we are going to be taking tomorrow. the european parliament has played an important role in recent years, particularly in relation to the central element of the accounts directive, the eu-wide legal right to a simple current account. a year and a half ago we called on the commission by a large majority to submit a directive on this subject. the commission complied with this on 8 may this year. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank in detail all the shadow rapporteurs, mrs gebhardt, mrs bowles and the coordinators in the economic committee, and all the colleagues involved in the groups, in the committee, in the staff offices and also in the commission for the good and efficient cooperation. i think we have managed to get parliament's work done at a good pace. i would also like to express my gratitude to the lithuanian presidency - even though it is not present here today - for making this dossier - the right of consumers to access an account - a priority of its work. that wasn't on the list originally. we asked for it and the lithuanian presidency has acted on it - so thank you very much. we are grateful to the council for working with us at the same time and for being on the verge of adopting a final position on this. we can do it - and i am glad that commissioner barnier agrees - by adopting the accounts directive during this parliamentary term. i think this would be a good sign that social progress can also be made in the eu. i say this to my own party, but that is another subject which i cannot and will not go into here. the single market celebrated its 20th anniversary this year. the single market has not yet had the same impact on consumers and, increasingly, on workers. if we do not change this, it will become increasingly difficult to convince the citizens of the european project. for an employee or student moving to the uk or italy, opening a new account or closing an old one should not be a lengthy process. these are experiences which, in my view, have no place in the eu today. the directive therefore aims to ensure that consumers can open a current account in the member state in which they wish to live, enabling them to use basic payment services. the banking sector has argued that consumers should only be able to exercise this right if they can prove a personal link to the eu country in which they wish to open a basic account. i have met with colleagues in the committee who share this view, because it will be the norm anyway that citizens will want to use their rights where they are looking for a job, studying or in any other connection. i do not think that we as a european institution have to require member states to ask for such a reference to the member state. i have tabled a motion to that effect, which i also presented in committee as a compromise, and i hope and hope that you will be able to support this motion tomorrow, as well as the motion i tabled with my colleague mr philippe de backer. the commission is also proposing to give member states more flexibility in the way they design the right of access to accounts. in this 20th year of the single market, it is also good that we are giving consumers a modern basic right. cash payments are increasingly being replaced, and in some countries large cash payments are already prohibited because of the risk of tax evasion. an account is therefore a necessity from which almost 60 million eu citizens are excluded. it is a clear sign that we need to make banks more responsible for their social and economic responsibilities. bank customers need to be empowered. this includes making fees and interest comparable and transparent and simplifying account switching. i am glad that almost all the groups have shared these principles. most of the points on which we differed concerned the question of how much harmonisation is needed at eu level and how much we should leave to the member states. this will be a question which we will be putting back on the table in the negotiations with the council. i think that the member states have had time to develop their own solutions to implement the aims of the directive. but the majority of them did not. the commission also proposed this directive because few member states have responded to the commission's 2011 recommendations. we should not forget that. nevertheless, i think we have found a viable compromise here which takes both points of view into account and allows the necessary flexibility to respond to national specificities.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you very much, commissioner, for allowing us to discuss this today for the 58 million citizens - i repeat the figure: 58 million citizens - who, according to the world bank estimate, do not have access to a bank account in the european union. and this is a huge problem for these people, because in this day and age, it's virtually impossible to live and participate in society if you can't open an account. it is not just the less well-off, but also students on erasmus, for example, workers on secondment and those who are enjoying the freedoms we have in the eu. it's really time we got down to it. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has also made it quite clear that we must go a little further than the european commission has proposed, also in terms of the freedoms for citizens, also in terms of the fees which should be as low as possible in these areas, if they are even charging fees to the people who earn the least. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a pity, because we could have done a lot more. mr klute has just mentioned it again. what kind of difficulty is this 'real reference' really supposed to mean? why can we not give citizens the same freedom as we have for services and markets in the european union as a whole? why do we still have to make it difficult for citizens? however, i think that the result we will have tomorrow is still good enough that we can agree with it, even if i am not 100% satisfied with it. but this is a first step, a beginning, and we should continue to take it. that is why i am encouraged that we - i hope that the governments will also join us - will really come to a conclusion during this election period, because the citizens need solutions to their problems.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i should like to thank the rapporteur first. the compromise we have worked out together is a good one. the epp will accept these compromises. i am therefore all the more surprised, mr klute, that you have now put forward additional motions on behalf of the communist group. that is surprising, because we agreed to the whole package. all sides have had to compromise. that's why the whole package is good. the commission's proposals are changing this, and in a not insignificant area, on which mrs gebhardt has already spoken. we believe that someone who has the right to a basic account must have a relationship with the member state. he is either a citizen or a worker, and an asylum application is enough, according to our compromise. we have therefore gone very far, and the member states should implement this. this is the way. because with regard to the 58 million people who currently do not have access to a bank account, you have to know that this is mainly concentrated in two countries where the share is over 30, 40%, romania and bulgaria. but even in my home country, germany, there are 700 000 people who have no access. we therefore agreed to grant access under the conditions set out in the agreement. we have also not supported the original idea of imposing a zero-rating system, and the compromise is to reduce the rate of taxation as much as possible. i think that's right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is social policy in action. we have not taken account of the concerns of the banking association, but have sought our own compromise. the banks have always been against this, and the commission has not proposed that every bank should offer a basic account. the commission wanted only one bank in each member state. we worked on this together. we shall also be voting in favour of mr giegold's oral amendments, and i shall announce that. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we fully support the compromise and i would like to thank mr klute again for his willingness to cooperate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the members for this overall balanced compromise. i would also like to thank the commission for following up this project. we have been pushing for this again and again in the circle of econ coordinators, and it was not easy at first. the member states did not want to. this was part of a broader financial market agenda, then it was taken down under pressure from the uk. now the proposal has been re-launched after a year of essentially inaction by the member states, failing to ensure that all citizens have access to the european single market, which means having a bank account. this means that formally speaking, we are not dealing with social policy here, but with a right of access to the internal market. the european union has very limited powers in the field of social policy. so it's good that it's being presented this way. it was particularly important for us to ensure that, beyond the good model that was already there, the wording ensured that people with an uncertain legal status, such as refugees or the homeless, also had access to this legislation. that's settled now. it was also important for us that the comparison table, which should make it easier to switch accounts in the future, no longer only looks at "geiz ist geil" - i.e. only compares prices - but actually makes a savings bank or a cooperative bank with a branch network visible with this offer. i would like to turn briefly to mr langen on the amendments. i think you're measuring by different standards here. in the econ committee you always insist that everything goes to the plenary. the rapporteur's reiteration of his original positions is allegedly uncollegial. i don't think that's right! it is quite normal that when we go to the plenary, we are allowed to table amendments. this is true even of the left party. i am quite frank with you that what we have proposed with the quarterly reports is the same. i think it makes sense because it makes the fees transparent. if you only know the fees once a year, hardly anyone will switch accounts based on the market. if you stand up as the evp, we can spare ourselves the theater. i assumed quarterly reports would be useful. if the shadow rapporteurs do not agree, i shall gladly pass over this oral amendment. we can spare ourselves the uncollegial way of getting up.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i have listened with great interest to today’s lively and thorough debate. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur, not least for his drive and determination in the handling of this file over the last six months. clearly, compromise will be required on all sides in order to reach agreement on the proposal within the current parliamentary term. i am convinced, however, that it is possible to find a solution to all the issues that need to be resolved, so that we can deliver on the key objective. parliament’s vote tomorrow would confirm its contribution to achieving this goal. i have neither the intention nor the right to comment on any of the tabled amendments in parliament, but i would like to point out some of the commission’s positions that were part of today’s debate in plenary. first, on the minimum number of services that member states should include in the national list of the payment services. i would say that the commission has proposed to include at least 20 of these services, but we are open to discussing this minimum number. then, on the scope of the application of this directive to payment services providers, i can confirm that the commission could consider any solution which would ensure that at least one provider exists in each member state and that all the territory is covered. on access to basic bank accounts, we are convinced in the commission that access to basic bank accounts can only be refused in two cases: if the citizen does not comply with anti-money laundering requirements, or if the citizen already has a bank account in the same member state. the commission will enter the trialogue with its original proposal, since the free movement of services also implies the freedom to true service providers in other member states. i reiterate my personal commitment to bringing this important proposal to a successful conclusion. i very much appreciate that, also in the council, the lithuanian presidency is equally committed to reaching a general approach this month and that the greek presidency is committed to starting interinstituonal negotiations immediately in 2014. i believe that we owe it to both consumers and businesses to deliver during the current parliamentary term and i have every confidence that we can succeed in this endeavour.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank the other groups for their positive and supportive comments. this shows that parliament is in agreement on the substance of this story. i think it's good for citizens to see that politicians can agree on something for once. the two amendments in question have two basic reasons: on the one hand, the 'real reference' provision does not really fit into the logic of the internal market in my view. that's why i brought it back. if this is passed tomorrow, then it will be accepted, and that is quite natural. but i think it does not really fit into the logic of the single market, so i have brought it back. and the second amendment: i think it is important that all banks make this offer. it is a question of fair competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. this is just the background. i would just like to explain this once more and ask for your agreement. otherwise, i hope we get a broad consensus and that we can start the trilogy before christmas, if possible, that would be my wish.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the eu has a coastline seven times longer than that of the usa. if we consider the area of the seas under eu responsibility, it is larger than the land area. 23 of the 28 member states have a coastline. this is also a sign of the importance of maritime policy as a whole. 40% of the eu's gross domestic product is generated on the coast, and 90% of the eu's external trade is transported by sea. we have a wide range of uses for the seas, and these are increasing: traditionally, shipping and fishing, but also energy production from offshore energy sources, such as oil and gas, and wind energy. we have tourism on the coast and also sand and gravel mining, pipelines in the sea, so a lot of uses. there's a lot going on in and around the ocean. at the same time, the sea is a very sensitive ecosystem that naturally needs to be protected. if we want to do more marine research and more marine economy in the future and to use the sea more, then we need to see that this ecosystem is protected. and this is a really important thing. i would like to mention the book "the swarm" by frank schätzing. it's a thriller about what happens when you take too much of the ocean and the ocean takes back. to prevent this from happening, the eu in 2007 created an integrated maritime policy, which is designed to help develop marine activities in a sustainable way across sectors and borders, and to see how economic, social and environmental factors can interact. i have said all this in advance because maritime spatial planning has been part of it from the very beginning. in 2008, there was a maritime spatial planning roadmap, in 2010 the integrated maritime policy was further developed, in 2011 there was a specific budget line for it and now in 2013 this proposal has actually been made for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. and this is necessary because, of course, with the growing use of the oceans, we need to look at what parts of the ocean can be used for what, how best to do that, and how to describe the interaction between the ocean and the coast in a way that is sustainable. we also talk about blue growth as part of our policy, and for that too you need maritime spatial planning. the future development of european seas in particular is to be continued with aquaculture, with blue biotechnology, for example with more extraction of mineral resources from the sea, with energy, for example from wave energy and other sources, and with even more ships. the commission has now made a proposal which says that all the countries which already have spatial planning and integrated coastal management can continue to do so as far as possible if it has been successful and should not change much. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have now made a crucial change in that i do not think the commission proposal has taken full account of what is in practice. i come from germany, where we already have a well-functioning system where integrated coastal management - that is, interactions between land and sea - is included in the spatial planning. i have changed this to the point that you can either do maritime spatial planning separately and then also describe integrated coastal management separately in a strategy, or you can also develop it together. i think it must be because that's what's already working successfully in some places. i also said that countries without coastlines obviously do not have to do this, and i have made sure that the list of activities for which this can be applied is not closed, but that it remains up to the member states how they want to develop their seas and their coasts. i want to thank all the shadow reporters for their cooperation. we have developed a constructive report together. i look forward to hearing the contributions of each of you.
member of the commission. − mr president, europe’s maritime policy has become an essential part of the european union’s collective work to strengthen our economies, create jobs and protect the marine environment. a major step forward for the eu’s integrated maritime policy was made a year ago in limassol, when the 27 member states endorsed our blue growth initiative for a competitive, innovative and sustainable maritime economy. with the directive on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, we aim to make a new step in this direction and in this strategy. we want to provide the best possible operational conditions for businesses by addressing the currently largely uncoordinated uses of marine and coastal areas. the constant increase in maritime activities is accelerating the competition for space and resources in our seas. better coordination of uses and legal certainty for developments are needed. the key concepts here are the reconciliation of economic and environmental concerns and the harmonious coexistence of different activities. this is what we propose through this directive: a light framework, building on existing national structures, a set of common principles and practices for the planning process in the seas and management process in coastal areas that lets member states decide on the content of their plans and management strategies. it also requires the coordination of these processes with neighbouring member states, to ensure that informed decisions are taken on the appropriate geographic scale: ecosystems, maritime activities and the issues that they face are not limited to national borders. it is crucial that human activity at sea is not developed beyond the capacity of marine and coastal ecosystems to deliver the economic and social benefits on which our wellbeing depends. putting the ecosystem-based approach at the heart of ocean-related decision making and the management of activities also forms an essential part of the chapter on oceans in the rio+20 declaration of last year, to which we are all committed. let me underline that an ecosystem-based approach is an internationally established, adaptive management approach for marine systems that inherently addresses economic and social aspects and therefore covers the three pillars of sustainability. the commission warmly welcomes the overall support we received in the committees involved in this proposal. it strengthens our conviction that this directive will greatly contribute to the sustainable development of activities in, and uses of, our marine and coastal areas. at the same time, it will also contribute to the sustainable use of our precious marine and coastal resources. we also welcome the broad support to address both maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management in a joint legislative instrument. both policy support tools are closely interlinked and based on similar key principles already set out in the relevant acts. it is evident that each activity at sea has a related activity on land, which requires coordination. applied jointly, both maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management will improve land-sea interface planning and management. establishing a common procedural framework will contribute to coherent approaches across sea basins, while allowing member states the flexibility to undertake maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management according to their own priorities for their own waters. i would like once again to thank the rapporteurs for their devoted work on this file and i look forward to the debate on the report.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs meissner, for her very accurate report. i would also like to thank the various committees, which are obviously concerned by such a maritime spatial planning procedure, for the constructive cooperation between them - the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on fisheries. only together can we in principle promote this use of our oceans' resources, so that we can have blue growth, more jobs, particularly in coastal regions, and ultimately social benefits for our citizens in europe. this maritime spatial planning, which together with integrated coastal management forms a planning instrument, is not intended to be a new level superseding national planning instruments, but is a consultation process necessary to coordinate very specific investment projects of the member states across borders. i would like to point out once again that in our country, of course, in a 100-mile zone around our european coasts, almost two thirds of all inhabitants live in urban areas. this is why this planning method is of the utmost importance. it is necessary that we also clearly indicate the shipping lanes, the fishing grounds mapped in their specific areas, the tourist areas and, of course, the protected areas, such as natura 2000 or very important bird areas and others, so that they remain available to us in an ecological sense. we also have to deal with the fact that the seabed is still being used and that gas and oil are ultimately being extracted from it. offshore wind turbines are playing an increasingly important role in renewable energy. i would like to conclude by saying that we are concerned with the optimal land use planning in our seas and coastal areas, with the lowest possible land use, in order to protect our natural resources so that our children and grandchildren can continue to live well in europe.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i'll start at the back with the willingness to quickly transport a trilogue. i would very much like to do that, because i think we really need this maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. i thank all those who spoke. the commission has already made a number of very constructive contributions, including in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. i must say that i was particularly pleased to see that some of my croatian colleagues, who are relatively new, also spoke, and even a hungarian whose country has no coastline at all, but who nevertheless seems to be passionate about the sea, and that is a good thing. this is really a topic that i wish the audience would be full of, because this is simply a future topic. many have stressed once again that this is a matter of jobs, of cooperation in coastal regions, including with neighbouring countries, including third countries in the mediterranean. the mediterranean has many problems, spyros danellis said, and it is already very stressed, which is why we need it. now back to the critics . commissioner mimica has already mentioned a number of points. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i have also been asked, also by my own member state, by germany: is it now the case that the commission is assuming responsibility for spatial planning through the back door? i think that there is no comparison between land-based spatial planning and maritime spatial planning in a framework where the member states have the flexibility to decide how they want to develop their activities in their region. it is a very sensible thing to bring up here, i am convinced of that, and so are most others. we also have the opportunity to make the most of the maritime space, as werner kuhn has said, for example, by combining offshore installations with aquaculture. there's a lot that's still possible. we already have many products from the sea for cosmetics and medicine, and this will increase considerably. finally, i come from lower saxony, where we have a unique protected area, the wadden sea, which is a unesco world heritage site. there is sustainable tourism, there is shipping, there is fishing. there is really a rational interplay of all activities there, and yet the zone is protected. i wish for that everywhere, and we can achieve that with this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the implementing acts on the generalized system of preferences before us allow only two interpretations. either the commission has not yet understood that the european parliament has new rights since lisbon, or it is deliberately trying to deceive us. in the autumn of this year the commission submitted to us four annexes to the gsp. annex iii is a package of ten countries with human rights as diverse as cape verde and pakistan. the ep should approve the fact that everyone can benefit from aps+ at the same time. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. i interpret this as a fraudulent package according to the motto: whoever wants bolivia must also take armenia. i hope that tomorrow a majority of this house will reject such an unacceptable package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the result is appalling. the commission has just one example: it finds that in pakistan women are often killed by acid, forced marriage or widow-killing. but instead of presenting an action plan with timetables and benchmarks or excluding pakistan from gsp+, the commission simply hands over a note for the card casket. finally, it is also hidden in the other annexes that burma will also be included in the gsp. this too is a package solution amongst totally different measures which we hope to reject tomorrow. commissioner, the gsp and gsp+ are not just about trade policy. your house describes both as development tools for improving human rights, but you don't seem to take that seriously yourself. that's why it's very troubling that you're treating this instrument so carelessly. on burma, your services do not seem to have taken seriously the demands of parliament which we put forward in june of this year. we demanded substantial changes before the country was included in gsp+. the eu prides itself on its values and human rights in the world. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the community.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope we will agree tomorrow. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council on the subject of the future of the common agricultural policy. we can then check the 27 conventions mentioned in the respective countries, and i think that will be very difficult for some in certain areas. but then we as the eu should also be ready and able to support these countries concretely in their will and commitment to comply with these things - these benchmarks, these core labour standards, for example in the ilo convention. the commission has already said this about pakistan: should we really give the military dictatorship aps+ and not the democratically elected government? i think that, particularly in relation to a country like pakistan, you can see that in a kind of comprehensive approach, you can operate various policy areas on the part of the eu, for example, on the one hand, in development cooperation, focusing on education, which is what the people there need most. secondly, the promotion of democracy. i was allowed to be the chief observer at the last election and the one before that. we have set up extensive programmes to support and develop democratic structures there and we are making progress. the opening up of our markets is the third essential aspect in order to promote development in the country. i hope that, in the face of all the problems, including the procedural problems, that this package will not take our eyes off it and will enable us to enter into dialogue with all these countries as soon as possible, so that we can actually achieve what we want to achieve in the field of human rights and workers' rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank parliament for its interest and involvement in the promotion of green infrastructure. the strategy on green infrastructure which the commission presented in may sets out ideas on how nature-based solutions like green infrastructure can protect biodiversity, enhance the economic benefits that our nature delivers, and contribute to growth and jobs. based on experience across europe, what is becoming clear is that green infrastructure solutions are often more cost-effective, more resilient and bring more long-term benefits than artificial, heavy infrastructure. local initiatives to invest in green infrastructure are creating jobs in planning, building energy-efficient green roofs and walls, restoring and maintaining urban and rural ecosystems, and restoring brownfield sites and watercourses. there are also benefits for our health and well-being: green spaces improve general health; they reduce heat-wave effects in cities; green roofs and parks provide natural water retention during heavy rains. finally, green infrastructure is a key tool in mitigating and adapting to climate change. the big question today is how we can help green infrastructure investments happen? at eu level, the backbone of green infrastructure is provided in the natura 2000 network, delivering services worth eur 200-300 billion per year. investing in natura 2000 is vital. the new multiannual financing framework provides significant new opportunities: for the first time, the cohesion fund will provide explicit support to green infrastructures. the target of 5% of erdf resources for ʻintegrated sustainable urban development measuresʼ also provides opportunities for financing urban green infrastructure. there are also opportunities within the new common agricultural policy, the social funds and the life programme. all the openings are there but those opportunities need to be taken up. nothing much will happen unless green infrastructure is a priority in the partnership agreements, backed up by specific actions in the operational programmes. yet, it is clear that public financing will not be sufficient. it is therefore reassuring that the private sector is more and more recognising the opportunities for investment in our natural capital. the commission is working with the european investment bank to set up a pilot natural capital financing facility next year. i count on your support to create this innovative financing mechanism which can mobilise additional investment in green infrastructure from the private sector and support the competitiveness of eu businesses in this emerging market.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. shaping the garden of eden for us that's going to be a challenge. i would like to point out a little bit about the practicability. the density of population and the intensive use of resources in europe require well-ordered conditions. spatial planning, landscape planning, building planning, urban planning, road and transport planning - all these are taken for granted and accepted in europe. all these plans must be practical and coordinated. sustainability is the credo of all things. in the context of biodiversity policy, the commission has now presented a strategy for a pan-european green infrastructure. the aim is to reconnect existing nature reserves and to preserve the health of ecosystems so that they can continue to provide socially valuable services such as clean air and clean water. these objectives are not new and are reflected in many related regulations and directives, indeed they are at the heart of any environmental policy. we must now take great care not to get caught up in double standards. we certainly do not need a new network of protected areas. we have just decided on ecological priority areas under the common agricultural policy. in natura 2000 - you mentioned it, commissioner - we have established a network of important nature reserves across europe. in addition, agriculture is committed to sustainability through cross compliance under the agricultural policy. the value of nature cannot be measured solely and exclusively in terms of ecological aspects. the environmental, social and economic values must be weighed against each other. for example, it is not appropriate to mention in this paper certain habitats that make a particular contribution to climate change policy. for example, it is not sufficiently certain that the conservation of forests actually leads to an improved carbon balance in the long term. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the development of green infrastructure must take place in the regions. the european strategy can provide a good framework for this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european central bank has played a major role in stabilising the financial markets and the european banking sector over the past year. the ecb's liquidity measures have been and are very comprehensive. the measures must therefore be subject to strict conditionality and also to continuous review. this is particularly important to us christian democrats in the european parliament, and our demand is made clear in the opinion on the annual report. the first fruits of fiscal consolidation are already being borne. budget deficits are expected to narrow in the coming year and the debt level in the euro area is expected to stabilise. we are certainly on a long and arduous way out of the crisis, but it is the right way. the continuing low interest rates are and remain a major concern. private savings are shrinking, and investors are scrambling for investment opportunities. the european legislators are now trying to create new incentives through long-term financing schemes. these projects were not designed to plug holes, however, but were intended to be an important complement to more growth in europe. i am therefore clear that we must return to a holistic approach. and that means sound fiscal policy, increased competitiveness, a balanced monetary policy and more stability through greater regulation of the financial markets. this includes strengthening supervisory structures, particularly for large and crossborder banks. the preparation period for the start of ecb banking supervision in november next year must be used with commitment and purpose. this includes, mr president draghi, finally submitting to parliament a proposal for the vice-chair of banking supervision. the ecb and you personally as president of the organisation bear a great responsibility. the european parliament will play its role as the main monitoring body.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the president of the ecb because his institution was the only one that was fully operational in the last years of the crisis. the council of finance ministers and the member states were unable to do so, but you not only took advantage of the gap, but in the summer of 2012, by saying that you would do everything possible to stop speculation, you helped to calm the situation considerably and to ensure that the euro was no longer in danger of being lost. i would like to emphasize this and reject the criticism of mr lambert. i have four problems, however, and i would like to mention them briefly. the aim of unbundling banks and governments has not been achieved by your programme, on the contrary: the banks in southern europe have continued to buy government bonds with the cheap money of the ecb instead of lending to small and mediumsized enterprises. secondly, the necessary reduction of the banking sector and the closer alignment with the real economy, as opposed to the clear successes in the usa, have not been achieved. thirdly, banking union will not be a permanent institution for the euro area under the leadership of the ecb, not least because the financial centre of london will be left out and the internal financial market will be jeopardised. fourthly, negative interest rates, which have obviously been discussed within the ecb, if i may believe the reports, are not suitable to solve the problems. i would like to remind you of the example of japan, which has been deflationary with this policy since 1997, i.e. for over 16 years. this should also be a warning example for the ecb.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to inform the house, as we're about to vote on ukraine, that for the past three hours, yulia tymoshenko's daughter and lawyer have not been allowed to visit yulia tymoshenko in prison and discuss matters with her. you are sitting outside the prison and, contrary to the rules of ukrainian law, you are not allowed to visit your client. i just wanted to let you know.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in consultation with all the political groups, i ask that the final vote on the legislative resolution be postponed. the forthcoming greek presidency of the council has taken me by surprise and is the first presidency of the council to take up the proposal of our parliament to appoint candidates for the additional posts to be created on the basis of their professional and personal qualifications, irrespective of their origin in a particular member state. the court of justice currently has one judge per member state, so that geographical balance and national legal systems are sufficiently taken into account. the urgently needed additional posts could have been filled long ago if the member states had not been arguing for years about various rotation systems regarding the origin of the judges. in the short time remaining in the first reading, we therefore want to give the member states one last opportunity to show that the welfare of citizens and businesses and the rule of law in this union as a whole are more important to them than national egos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to inform the honourable members that yesterday we had a brief discussion among the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs on the following: if mr giegold withdraws his original oral amendment, i would like to propose instead that an alternative oral amendment be tabled: the word 'annually' is replaced by 'at least' in the relevant article, so that the sentence in english now reads: 'member states shall ensure that payment service providers provide consumers, free of charge, with a statement of all fees and the interest rates applied to their payment account at least annually'. i ask your permission to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point first. we have now moved very quickly: recital 15 must be adapted to the first subparagraph of article 5 (1) because they are related. i do not know whether that has been voted on or not. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it seems that the second part, 'implement reforms connected with the signing of the association agreement', is being left unchanged. the new addition means that the part for it is deleted. it's not complementary, it's that it would say: "financial assistance to help ukraine tackle its worsening financial situation", and then period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to make a comment because we have now made it possible with this resolution to have an official delegation from parliament. the conference of presidents decided this morning that we can travel as a delegation if we have a counterpart. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that a parliamentary session is scheduled for monday in kiev. it would therefore be possible to travel on the weekend and meet our counterpart in ukraine, the rada colleagues, on monday. i would be very much in favour of taking this resolution seriously and implementing this travel order now and of our staff preparing this trip of the delegation. i say that explicitly to the chairman of the delegation. he has the means to do so now. we can also better deal with the case of yulia tymoshenko and her local lawyer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report, but i also have some reservations because, as always, risks and opportunities are closely linked in this case. of course there are opportunities, of course environmental policy should be used to get investment, to create jobs. but i simply ask that in this story, in the so-called green economy, you also look at globalization and especially the economy. because in the end, the principle is always the same: everything must be affordable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not about the very large financial transactions, but it is really about politics for the citizen, who simply and profoundly, when he is dealing with his financial transactions, when he is receiving money from the social welfare office, if he wants to remain viable somehow and must, needs an account. it speaks for the european union that it is intervening here and making policy for its citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm very happy about that. i was able to agree to this report with a clear conscience. i ask the house to continue to do so.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the central african republic.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the follow-up by your assembly to the situation in the central african republic and the adoption of a resolution on human rights violations and the rule of law in the country. the situation in the central african republic, which is experiencing the worst crisis in its history, is indeed alarming. on several occasions, most recently on 5 december, the high representative expressed her deep concern at the ongoing escalation of violence and the serious violations of human rights that are being committed with impunity. we share the concerns expressed in your resolution. in view of the gravity of the crisis, there is an urgent need for the international community to act quickly to prevent the situation from deteriorating further. the european union is actively participating in the international community's efforts to respond to the political, security, humanitarian and human rights dimensions of the current crisis and to contribute to its resolution. the european union plays a leading role in facilitating international coordination between the main partners (the united nations, the african union, the united states, france, the economic community of central african states). the restoration of public order and the protection of the population remain the highest priorities. we welcome the intervention of the african force, supported by france and supported by other member states, to put an end to the violence and restore security. the european commission has already committed, as some of you have mentioned, to mobilise 50 million euros through the african peace facility for the african misca force. in this regard, i also welcome the adoption of un security council resolution 2127 of 2013 on the central african republic, which provides, inter alia, for the establishment of an international commission of inquiry. the european union also calls for the central african republic to be closely monitored by the un human rights council in geneva. the european response to the crisis in the central african republic is substantial and multifaceted. it includes both emergency aid for the growing number of the most deprived and medium-term measures. for example, the commission adopted an exceptional aid measure to finance a stabilisation programme through the stability instrument of up to eur 10 million. these various components aim in particular to promote national reconciliation and interfaith and intercommunal dialogue, to support the deployment of human rights observers, in close cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for human rights, and to restore independent media to allow access to neutral and objective information. the commission, in liaison with the european external action service, is also working on a linking relief, rehabilitation and development (lrrd) approach to re-establish basic social services and livelihoods in the central african republic. in addition, our development cooperation has never been suspended, even though some projects have had to be put on hold for security reasons. at the same time, the european union is preparing to support the transition process with a view to restoring democratic institutions. it will be a long process, requiring a shared effort. the union is committed to supporting the implementation of the un security council resolution 1322 (2007), which calls for the implementation of the un security council resolution 1322 (2007). the foreign ministers will also discuss the situation in the central african republic at the next general affairs council on 16 december in brussels. the european union will remain actively engaged in supporting, in close coordination with its partners, a stabilisation of the central african republic and a lasting exit from the crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on organ harvesting in china.
mr. deva, please! that is not a question open to answering by the rules of procedure. both those we've already asked can lie to us, and those we're going to ask can lie to us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that this debate is getting a little bit off track. so i really wonder, aren't victims usually the best witnesses to what happened to them? or what reason do people have to make false claims here if it has not actually happened to them or to their family members? i'm having a hard time with this. it almost reminds me of the times when the victims of stalin's or hitler's concentration camps had to prove that it was really that terrible. that can't be the point, just because a dictatorship can afford this opacity, then to question what the victims tell us. i don't know. i wasn't there. my conclusion is that we need to demand that there be transparency here, that we get access to the hospitals, to the prisons, to the detention camps where this allegedly takes place. and this should be done within the framework of the united nations by the special representatives responsible for torture and inhuman treatment. that is the solution, in my view.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak on behalf of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, cathy ashton. the european external action service and the european commission receive a lot of mail and many parliamentary questions about the practice of organ harvesting from chinese prisoners, organ trafficking and medical tourism. an international petition, currently circulating with 1.5 million signatures calls on the united nations to pressure the chinese government to end these practices and stop the persecution of falun gong members. all our human rights concerns are regularly raised with the chinese authorities in the framework of the regular eu-china human rights dialogues. the european union has raised these concerns with regard to the death penalty in china and has in particular called on the chinese authorities to increase transparency, both in executions and in organ harvesting statistics. the existence of this phenomenon is difficult to assess and to combat in the absence of reliable data. the european union also expressed its regret that a chinese regulation on organ transplants, which entered into force in 2006, does not contain any provision requiring the written consent of the donor. at the recent eu-china summit in beijing on 29 november, the eu also welcomed the decision to abolish the system of re-education through labour at the last plenary meeting of the central committee of the communist party of china. as regards the problem of organ trafficking within the european union, directive 2010/53 provides a general framework for organ donation and directive 2011/36 provides for criminal sanctions for trafficking in human beings for the purpose of organ trafficking. in addition, the action plan on organs should also make it possible to combat this type of trafficking. a report from the european commission to the parliament on the implementation of directive 2010/53 is planned for 2014, as is a mid-term evaluation of the action plan, which is underway.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in sri lanka.
i'm sorry about that. i think you need to do that in person.
blue-card question. – after 30 years of civil war there was a lot of chaos in sri lanka and colleagues have said that there are improvements but not enough. but you are speaking about a balanced resolution and you are calling for a comprehensive investigation by march 2014 – that is three months from now. do you think that is realistic? why do you impose such an ultimatum, rather than stating ‘in due time’, as you yourself said? march 2014 is completely unrealistic – do you not agree?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not in sri lanka, the ethnic conflict is a result of a post-colonial situation. we, as the european union, should not make the mistake that perhaps former colonial powers made here, but should try to move from the ceasefire that exists there, or from non-war, to a genuine peace. true peace can only be based on justice. there can be no true peace unless there is inner peace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but also the inner balance is important, and the search for the truth is important. i personally think that the date is important, without any illusion that anything can happen by then. but i think that if we do not do this, we may be forced to postpone the whole thing until st nimmerlein's day, as we are currently experiencing in serbia and elsewhere. in the interests of both sides, such crimes must be dealt with. i appeal to the majority to recognize this.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption by your assembly of an emergency european parliament resolution on the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in sri lanka. as mentioned in the resolution, the european union also recognises that sri lanka, with the help of international donors, has made significant improvements since the end of the conflict, in particular on demining, resettling displaced persons and rebuilding infrastructure. we also welcome the first elections to the northern provincial council and hope that effective cooperation between the new provincial council and the central administration can be ensured. despite these positive measures, other challenges remain in sri lanka, in particular with regard to the protection of human rights, civil and religious freedoms, the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. assuring full accountability for past crimes is essential to genuine reconciliation in a post-conflict situation. in this regard, we strongly encourage the sri lankan government to take further steps to implement the recommendations made in the report of its own learning and reconciliation commission, and to conduct an independent and credible investigation into alleged violations of international law. similar calls have been made by other international partners, and progress will be assessed before the next human rights council in march 2014. the european union will follow this process very closely. in this connection, we have taken note of the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the disappearances and the launching of a national inquiry into human rights violations by sri lanka. we welcome the visits of the united nations high commissioner for human rights and the united nations special rapporteur on the rights of displaced persons. we encourage the sri lankan government to extend further invitations to facilitate pending requests for visits by other un special mandate holders, including the working group on enforced or involuntary disappearances. we also continue to encourage sri lanka to engage in dialogue with the european union and other international partners who can provide assistance in the difficult tasks still to be implemented. the european union remains ready to offer its support to the sri lankan government to help it face and overcome these challenges in order to build a better and brighter future for all sri lankans.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
in writing. – i would like to say first that while we must closely monitor the post-conflict reconciliation progress in sri lanka, we must also acknowledge that the country has just recently established peace after a decades-long conflict. the restoration of peace was a great relief for the whole population but of course, there is much for the government to do in order to rebuild infrastructure, resettle idps and to ensure that human rights are applied universally, fairly and consistently. it is important to note that the sri lankan authorities have resolved those root causes that led to the conflict. i am also glad to see that the first-ever elections to the provincial council in the northern province were free and fair, as the sri lankan authorities had promised during our visit to the province last year. i hope the government will continue to implement the llrc recommendations, speed up demilitarisation of the war-affected provinces and will protect human rights by lawful means. meanwhile, the eu should continue to support reforms aimed at strengthening democracy and the economy in the country.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am not going to go into detail. we have come to the end of a long year, but one that has seemed very short to all of us. i thank you all for your cooperation. i wish you a good journey home, a blessed christmas, a somewhat quieter time between the ecclesiastical and secular year cycles and a good start to the new year! i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
