the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the situation of europe's young people is serious in every way. almost one in four young people in europe is unemployed and the economic and social prospects are depressing to say the least. i think that we politicians in europe must ask ourselves whether we are sacrificing an entire generation on the altar of the crisis. we must ask ourselves whether we are prepared to take responsibility for the fact that the new generation, the first since the founding of the european union, will experience poorer living conditions and fewer opportunities in life than their parents. my mother was a young woman in her early 80's, and like so many other young people, she was struggling to get into the workforce. many back then were lost, became long-term unemployed, became ill or were permanently marginalized. we know from the 1980s that youth unemployment has an infinite number of negative consequences both for the individual and for society as a whole. let us learn from the mistakes of the past by acting decisively and adequately. that is what we are doing when we propose a european youth guarantee. it is also a question of justice in the crisis, because the absurd thing is that while europe's young people are being left unemployed and in hopeless situations, the economic elite, headed by the bank director, has gone free. this is a completely unacceptable situation. the youth guarantee is a crucial proposal in this context, in a time of crisis. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission has now played its part. thank you for that! it is now up to the council of ministers and the irish presidency to deliver. the european parliament and our group have very high expectations. we must deliver, we must spark new hope for the young people of europe.
the committee on petitions has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, i would like to go straight to the point and speak to the commissioner and say that it is almost unbearable to listen to him. all that talk! the treaty says we must have a regulation. we need a permanent permit, and we can do that. in denmark we have proper legislation on administrative practice, not that soft law which is vague and inaccessible. we have now received such a good report from mr berlinguer that it makes this very clear. when you come from the committee on petitions, as i do, you know that there we see time and again the frustration of the citizens at this feeling that the european institutions will rather protect themselves from the citizens than the other way around. i am therefore very grateful that mr berlinguer has incorporated into the report an important point from my opinion from the committee on petitions, namely that the principle of service should be at the centre. the citizen must be the centre of attention. the administrative law is there to protect the citizens from the administration, not the other way around! it is time that all the institutions learned this now, and i would add that it creates a much better atmosphere in the administration as well. it is one of the best defenses we can have against a broken, undermined administration that is too accessible to all sorts of tricks and corruption. so thank you to mr berlinguer. and i hope that the commission will at some point, and very soon, live up to the requirements of the treaty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is well known that the european union is concerned with major issues such as fiscal policy, foreign policy, the need to save the world and other such important issues. but the fact that we are now going into great detail and starting to have a policy on how cities should develop and, in addition, wanting a new phase of european regulation with plans for preserving and restoring urban areas, etc., is new in my view. it is interesting that it is no longer enough to just save the world and get the economy under control, because down to the details, down to the point where the question of urban development is raised, that is where the eu institutions must also function. ladies and gentlemen, i should like to draw your attention to the fact that there is something called the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity, which means that there are areas where the european union simply has to keep its nasty and always power-hungry hands off. could we not agree that the question of how cities develop is perhaps a matter for the member states, or perhaps down to the level of towns and cities, local authorities, etc., and not something for commissioners and members of the european parliament to deal with?
mr president, i would like to thank you. over the past few months i have taken a great deal of interest in how the eu implements and audits its budgets. it is, when you get down to it, absolutely incomprehensible what creativity is actually involved in using taxpayers' money. agricultural subsidies for golf clubs, school milk schemes, bullfighting on subsidies and completely ridiculous examples such as flying gorillas, street theatre, subsidies for turkish sewers and whatnot. i have tried to diversify this, not only in this house today, where we voted for a few billion more to be spent, but also on the internet and elsewhere, and i have received the absolutely divine answer from the european commission that you cannot criticise this kind of thing because it is legal activity. the commission therefore believes that even the most insane activities can be justified by taxpayer money, provided they are legal activities. i would just like to take this opportunity of the debate today to thank the european commission very warmly for making such wonderful contributions to the debate, because of course the examples i have mentioned here should not be legal at all. of course, any reasonable person can see that under no circumstances, legal or illegal, should money be spent on such nonsense.
in writing. - the reason for the positive vote on recommendation 1, § 13, in the annex to the report on information and consultation of workers, anticipation and management of restructuring (2012/2061 ((ini)) is as follows: increasing globalisation in the form of significant and sudden changes in world trade patterns has led to a wave of mass redundancies in companies in denmark and the eu. the mass redundancies have major social and economic consequences for individual workers as well as for the regions where the mass redundancies take place. through targeted investments in training and upskilling, the globalisation adjustment fund has helped to mitigate the social and economic consequences of increasing globalisation for many danish and european workers. we are aware of the negotiations in the council and that there does not appear to be the necessary support to continue the globalisation fund, which we of course take note of. however, we hope that the eu will continue to have a tool - possibly under the social fund - to provide rapid, temporary and preventive assistance to workers made redundant in the event of particularly serious mass redundancies.
in writing. the report's requirements for firms and employers in the context of business restructuring processes are far from satisfactory. there is room for improvement. the report's attempt to improve the conditions of workers in the context of restructuring is not far-reaching enough. the report does indeed regard workers as a flexible resource which must 'adapt' to the changing circumstances of global competition and the new strategies of firms. companies are encouraged to increase their competitiveness, inter alia, by promoting the 'internal and external mobility' of workers. i have voted for the report, however, because it puts pressure on the commission to initiate a legislative process in which it will be possible to fight for better conditions for workers in the context of restructuring.
i have to say, madam president, the proposal to introduce stability bonds is the reverse of that. the aim is to introduce a new eurobond before the expenditure-revenue balance is adjusted in a number of countries which need a lower interest rate. why has it come to this? this is because for a number of years some countries have spent more money than they have earned, and therefore the market doubts that these countries can maintain their debt and, last but not least, pay it back. and if the market is in doubt, the interest rate goes up. the way forward before the introduction of common bonds is reforms that are implemented, so that it is not just talk of reforms. if this happens, the interest rate on a country's government bonds will fall. we've seen this before. the conclusion is therefore clear: it is far too early to talk about the issue of bonds with solidarity liability. it is possible that there is a majority in parliament, but we know that there is no majority in the council of ministers, so this operation will never pass through the council of ministers. so there are no short-term solutions that can be used to get a lower interest rate in a country. we must say as politicians both here in the house and in the national states that reforms must be carried out so that expenditure and revenue are in line. if that is the case, i believe that it is possible to take such measures subsequently.
mr president, i would like to welcome the irish prime minister to the european parliament and to the irish presidency. we are in a time of severe crisis and great challenges lie ahead. you have put forward an ambitious agenda and i sincerely hope that you will manage to move us all forward. we greens are especially pleased to see that you have chosen youth unemployment as one of your main priorities. as you might be aware, parliament will today vote on a resolution supporting the introduction of european-wide youth guarantee schemes. everybody seems to agree that the situation for europe’s young is serious. i remember that heads of state already in january 2012 expressed their deep concern and the necessity to act at european level. mr prime minister, now you have the chance to act. you can, on behalf of all the member states, make a difference by gathering support in the governments for a youth guarantee in all member states. parliament will give you its full support; we also have very high expectations that you will be the first presidency to deliver something concrete for europe’s young.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament's journey between brussels and strasbourg is a waste of time and a detriment to the environment. but besides that, it costs millions and millions. in my view, this is a provocation not only against common sense but also against the many citizens of the union who have lost their jobs or who are suffering from eu-imposed cuts. i don't think we should participate in this provocation. i think we should be able to look our constituents in the eye. that is why i have done what i could to limit this travelling circus without deciding whether the individual seats we have to have should be in brussels or strasbourg. i voted against the new calendar proposal for 2013 because it will increase travel rather than reduce it. the adoption of the continuation of the travelling circus is a black day for parliament. but above all it is a dark day for the environment and for the taxpayers of the european union. we'll have to change that in the future.
in writing. - i am opposed to any travel by the european parliament between brussels and strasbourg and i strongly disagree with the decision of the court of justice of the european union. but i accept the decision - we have to respect the treaty provision for 12 strasbourg sessions. i am voting against because the 12th session is not a good time. i also think that we should have time to reflect on the content of the judgment in order to reduce the economic costs and environmental impact of the many journeys. unfortunately, there is probably no way around a treaty amendment. but i'm gonna keep focusing on the traveling circus.
in writing. - it is of course good that the european parliament, with this report, wants to combat youth unemployment. that is why i did not vote against the report. but if i have not voted for the report, it is because we cannot separate the present youth unemployment from the eu's austerity policy, which is aggravating the economic crisis and creating further youth unemployment. the massive youth unemployment can only be remedied by a confrontation with the current austerity offensive. it is not enough to supplement the austerity policy with a small separate initiative such as the youth guarantee. the youth guarantee is inadequate and there is a risk that it may lead to worse working conditions and the exploitation of cheap labour. that is why i have abstained.
in writing. - i have not chosen to work on eu policy to introduce technical barriers to trade and unnecessary administrative burdens. so when parliament supports a protectionist proposal like the made in scheme, i must say that i expected more. the european project is built on a foundation of free trade, and the made in proposal will help to undermine this. because that argument ignores the fact that goods are now produced all over the world. the production of a product often starts in one country and ends in another. is it a product 'made in europe' if the last button is pressed in italy, or is it 'made in china' because most of the production takes place here? there is not much transparency and clarity - and it seems to be more about misleading than guiding consumers. we already have an optional model that works today, and the truth is that an origin marking will make it more expensive for producers - and that ultimately means that consumers have to pay through more expensive goods. it also creates more work for the customs authorities in the eu. that is why i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on 'made in' which was put to the vote today.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european tax system for the benefit of all citizens. the fight against racism is also a political priority for our group. however, we have chosen not to vote for amendment no 11, because we believe that the wording of the amendment is imprecise and the criticism of the commission in this respect is unclear.
mr. chairman, please. i want to speak danish! i think we all condemn what has happened, so i do not need to go into that. india is a subcontinent, i've been there several times, and there are people everywhere! the differences are immense. on the one hand, women are highly educated and in positions of great respect, while on the other hand they have to carry the incredibly heavy daily load without any rights at all. so we are dealing here, of course, with age-old traditions which we in the eu would rather see india change yesterday than tomorrow. and in principle we are not really talking only about women here, because we are also talking about child labour and the lives of the unborn and also many workers who work, for example, in metal foundries, barefoot and without any kind of safety. it is generally a question of the lowest level of society's dignity.
thank you, mr president! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good report. access to finance for europe's smes is crucial for europe to overcome the crisis. there is a great diversity of smes in europe and it is therefore also important to present as broad a palette as possible to solve the problems facing smes. all european countries are affected by frozen banking markets, making it more difficult for smes to obtain loans at the moment. that is probably something we agree on across the political groups in this parliament, and so far so good. i would like to take this opportunity today to stress that we must not forget the programmes cosme and horizon 2020 when the final budget is to be approved here in the european parliament. we hope that the heads of state will find a solution this week. it is important that we use the money in the best possible way and with great respect for agriculture, regional funds and cohesion funds, so it is important that cosme and horizon 2020 are invested so that they will also fill a part of the final budget. so there are a number of means to increase growth and innovation in europe's smes. i therefore think it is good that we are finally getting the european investment bank and the european investment fund involved, so that we can give these funds a greater leverage. thank you, sir.
i thank you, mr president, and i thank ulrike rodust for her excellent work on this report. it is hard to say, but the old fisheries policy has failed. no one has been satisfied with it, whether it be the fisheries sector, scientists, environmental organisations, coastal communities or politicians. i hope that will be rectified now. we are now getting more sustainable fisheries by increasing stocks, stopping the discarding of edible fish and getting rid of the rules that have contributed to this! and we get even more regionalisation. we need a whole new regional fisheries management system. the success of the new fisheries policy will depend on the responsibilities which will hopefully now be left to the racs, among others. we must restore confidence in fisheries, and i hope that fishermen too can see that we are now trying to take political responsibility for a wrong policy. thank you for that.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. thank you, mr president! thank you for that. we are discussing here this afternoon the european semester, which in our view in the green group is both an important and potentially very potent instrument for ensuring a sensible coordination of economic policy in europe. let me start with the political before we get to the process of the debate. it is almost sporty to say in the eu that we are out of the crisis, that the worst is over and that we can look ahead. but the truth is, we're in a very fragile situation. the commission's optimism is mainly due to a slight improvement in export figures and a slight reduction in the pressure on the government bonds of the southern european countries. this is a very delicate situation. i would like to stress this, because at the same time we are in recession in europe; growth is absent, unemployment is rising both this year and next year, and the macroeconomic imbalances within the euro remain deep and very serious, and most recently the imf economists have highlighted the relatively large negative multiplier effects of excessive cuts in the member states. we in the european parliament feel that way and we must take a very active approach to this. let me emphasize three points which are absolutely essential for the green group to take into account in these considerations: firstly, we must counter high unemployment - especially among young people - and low growth by increasing private investment and, where possible, also increasing public investment, especially for countries with sound public finances, so that we can get a real european recovery under way. we need to find a better balance between consolidation and growth. we haven't found it yet. secondly, we have not yet tackled the real bombshell of our recovery, namely the banks in europe, which are suffering from enormous defaults. it is estimated that they have debts of up to 500 billion euros, and even more. this summer, europe was under pressure to deliver. we decided to create a banking union with supervision, deposit guarantee, rules for resolution and recapitalisation. now the pressure is gone, and that's a shame, because we need to deal with the banking crisis, or it's going to come right back to haunt us. thirdly, we must have tackled the enormous macroeconomic imbalances that have built up within the euro area, which make it very difficult for some countries to compete and to achieve a real position within the euro. increasing demand, tackling bank debt and tackling macroeconomic imbalances are three very high priorities for the green group, and i can only express my disappointment with the process. so we have to prioritise real conversations better in this house, because i believe we can reach each other if we want to. unfortunately, we have not taken enough time in this round, and i can only regret that. thank you, sir. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
blue card answer. thank you, mr president. thank you for your questions. as regards the first, it is true that i want countries with sound public finances - that is my own country, denmark, for example, and germany, finland, the netherlands and sweden - to increase public investment, but of course not without agreement with the european commission. it must be coordinated and controlled and within the framework we have set up. but there is actually room in some of those countries to increase investment, and i think that will be very crucial to increase employment. as regards the second question of macroeconomic imbalances, the fact is that some very large imbalances have arisen, which mean that some countries have to devalue and revaluate by up to 20% respectively in order for the euro to really hold together. we simply have to deal with it. it will require action in germany to increase domestic demand and to look at wages, but of course also in the countries of southern europe, which must become more competitive. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
blue card answer. thank you, mr president! thanks again for asking. we have to understand that not everyone can be like germany, because then everyone would have a very, very strong export-oriented model, and who would then be the importing countries in the euro zone? germany has now achieved such a strong position and congratulations on that. of course, this is a great achievement for a country. i would like to acknowledge this, but it also creates problems when wage restraint is so firmly established as a strategy in germany. we must also ask ourselves whether we want a europe in which we have to compete in permanent low-wage sectors in order to survive in the global market. i think that is a very dangerous development. we have millions of working poor in germany. i think we need to find a better balance and also ensure that there is real demand and real purchasing power in the european middle class. i think that will be very important in the future. so that's the balance i'm looking for. not just that you can spend loose these years, of course you can't. revenue and expenditure must be equal, but we have focused exclusively on the expenditure side and on honouring those countries which have been able to keep wages at a very low level. i think we need to have a better balance of this and also look at the revenue side. thank you, sir.
thank you, madam president! i remember when you spoke of the lisbon strategy, which was to make sure that the eu became the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. we waited, and then it was 2010, and the eu had only lost competitiveness. the only place where the eu had turned out positively was in higher unemployment rates! what did they do here? yes, they decided that by 2020 they would be the most competitive economy! it would take the most naive person in the world to believe that this institution, which is basically clinging to a euro that has damaged the eu economy, could create growth, could create progress in europe! we can only look at greece with unemployment at 50% and spain where youth unemployment is now 60%! never before, when the greeks and spaniards themselves were in control of their economies, have results been so poor! the eu semester is a reporting event where the eu is not only short-circuiting economies, but also short-circuiting democracies! ladies and gentlemen, this is outrageous! this morning we heard president hollande speak in the plenary as if everything was rosy, as if the economy was improving. a few days ago, his own minister in france said that france was on the verge of bankruptcy! to hear hollande, to hear all of you in this plenary, is like hearing emperor nero standing and playing the lyre while rome burns! i hope you will soon realise that rome is on fire, that brussels is on fire, that the whole of europe is going up in flames, and that you are responsible!
thank you, madam president! thank you for that. the single market is a great achievement, which has created growth and jobs for millions of europeans over the last 20 years, and in our view it is also part of the solution to bring europe out of the crisis. it is therefore very good that the internal market has become part of the pillars of the entire european semester. but if consumers and workers are to support common rules, they must also be able to see that they are acting. they need to see that the rules protect and give choices. and in order for companies to exploit the full potential of the single market, they need to be able to see that common rules lead to less protectionism, and we are not quite there yet. there is a real need for member states to implement and enforce the rules of the internal market more quickly and better. the schwab report offers a lot of good suggestions on how we can make the internal market work better. we in the socialist group believe that the schwab report is balanced and sends a signal that the internal market is also for workers and consumers, not just for companies. we would also like to send the message that it is absolutely essential for the socialist group that the schwab report maintains this balance, which has been voted through in the internal market. if the balance is not maintained, we will not be able to support the report when it is put to the vote. we need a balanced internal market! thank you, sir.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. and thank you to the secretary-general for being here and following the debate here, which is indeed about the budget of the other institutions than the commission, but it is true that there is a tradition that it is particularly parliament's budget that we deal with when we have these guidelines. this is also the case with mrs hohlmeier's report, which the alde group can give its full support to. i think we have worked well together and we are very much in agreement with the result that has been achieved. in general, the eu institutions have now once again been given a frozen budget, and this is sensible at a time when there are great financial demands on many people and many countries are facing major budgetary problems. we cannot therefore come in and ask for more money from the taxpayers of the european union. as has been said on several occasions, we must at the same time ensure that the institutions can function, and i think it is important that we look at each institution individually and not just find savings in percentage terms across the board and across the range of institutions; we must go into detail and see where there are real savings to be made. it is also mentioned that 2014 is a special year for parliament, namely an election year. we also have additional expenditure due to enlargement which must be taken into account, and of course we must take this into account when we talk about the budget. parliament has been given many new tasks over the years, more legislative powers through the budgetary authority, and we have to control legislation. control may be one area where we would like to do more. so it's important that we save by investing in new technology that can make things smarter and easier, so that we can fulfill our role without it costing more, but that we can actually save money.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - mr president, speaking on behalf of the committee on culture, i can only say that we, like everyone else, are enthusiastic about csr as a concept. we are not very happy, however, that this is becoming a matter of legislation. csr is a great idea, and we strongly support it. it works very well all over the world - not least in my own country, denmark. but i would like to - and this has already been stressed by several speakers here - to make a point of not making this a matter of legislation. csr is about the initiative of companies. that's what makes it a success; it's all about volunteering. and i would like to highlight the danish model, where you actually talk about having full transparency with companies, and companies that do not use csr have to report. but these are all voluntary schemes, and i would like to make a strong point about this, so that we do not, now that we have the opportunity, choke it all down with bureaucracy and the usual legislative activity of this parliament!
thank you, mr president! if the rumours are true, the eu leaders will agree in the coming days to cut proposed investments in research, transport and energy without in any way deciding which projects should not be implemented. they will cling to an opaque, incomprehensible and unjust system of own resources with discounts and discounts on discounts. that is why i say that no agreement is better than a bad agreement on the multiannual financial framework. we can easily continue to work with annual budgets below the ceiling for 2013, as the treaty requires, if there is no agreement. it requires both parliament and the council to work together to provide a legal basis for the budget. we want to work positively for this here in parliament, and i hope the council will do so too, whether or not there is an agreement on the multiannual financial framework. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president! before this summit, we heard two keynote speeches. yesterday we heard president hollande stand here in the chamber and speak for more agricultural aid, more structural aid, more eu, including eu taxes and more money in general - all initiatives that point backwards in the direction of protectionism, planned economy and recession. fourteen days ago, the british prime minister, david cameron, gave a very different speech - a speech that emphasized democracy, a smaller eu, faith in market forces and, in general, the idea that an eu which has been underestimated for 18 years by its own auditors should not have more funds. a speech that pointed to the future. i hope that the summit meeting to be held here in the coming days will focus on cameron's speech and on the future and not look back to the past.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, probably apart from the reports by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change, i do not think any report has been quoted as frequently as the stern review of 2006 in which sir nicholas stern tells us just how catastrophic and costly the effects of climate change will be if we do not act. last week nicholas stern gave an interview in which he said that he had got it wrong on climate change and that it is far, far worse. this is in line with what the world bank has also concluded and with what, i guess, more or less all scientists that work on this issue have concluded. we need to act now. global emissions need to peak in 2015 if we are to stay below 2°c, after which the self-enhancing effect sets in. this is why we cannot wait until 2020. this is why it is all very well that we will get a legally binding agreement in 2015, but the cop process needs to create other results long before that. this will only happen if the eu leads. this will only happen if the eu shows direction and, to be honest, we have not done that for a few years. i value your work, commissioner. you know that. i think you struggle and that you do everything you can, but you also have to admit that sometimes some countries are blocking. normally we are very polite and do not mention them, but today i would like to mention poland – unfortunately – because poland has been blocking. poland is now going to be president so we need to put maximum pressure on poland to live up to that responsibility. can i ask you one question, commissioner? why is it that you do not advise the council to start perhaps taking decisions in a different way? why is that we do not use majority voting? why is it that one country can block progress for the european union? it simply is not satisfactory.
in writing. we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of amendment no 9 to the report on the annual growth survey of the european parliament's employment committee. we support looking at the way the structural funds work, including the possibility that the funds could help the eu out of the financial crisis by a possible increased co-financing rate for certain countries. however, unemployment in a member state should not be the sole criterion for which countries should be considered for a possible increased co-financing rate.
the commission is not - madam president, it is not very often that the ombudsman prepares a special report for us, and it is therefore a pity that we do not have a full debate on this matter, which is so much about respect for citizens and about citizens' participation. i think we need to send a clear signal to the citizens that we are willing to listen to them and that we think they should be involved. but we have received a good report, also in committee. the first is the continuing weakness of respect for the ems assessments. austria has not carried out such an assessment in connection with the extension of vienna airport. the ombudsman has subsequently agreed that what they call an ex-post was done. i think it should be called a post-mortem, because it's often too late. it was clear from this ex post or post mortem that the right of citizens to participate and the right of citizens to complain had been violated. the ombudsman has pointed this out and it is very, very important that we have this. this is important because we are now facing a revision of the eia directive, at the same time as we are facing the adoption of a new framework programme for the environmental action plan, in which the implementation of legislation is at the very heart. implementation of legislation involves citizen involvement at all levels where possible. and it is we in this parliament who must lead the way in ensuring citizen participation. let me conclude by thanking my colleagues on the committee. we've had a really good time. it is also probably because austria has subsequently repaired the worst accidents, so that no one had any reason to be angry with austria. i also think it is a bit unfortunate that i did not get through that we should also have sanctions.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we spend 50 billion a year on agriculture. it is a huge sum, and i think that whether one thinks it is too large or too small, we can all agree that it is right and reasonable and just that we should make some demands on agriculture. that we require their production to be sustainable. that is why i was very pleased to see the commission's proposal, which actually makes the agricultural aid we give conditional on the implementation of measures to make the agricultural sector greener. unfortunately, we can see that the proposal put forward by the commission is now being diluted quite considerably. not by us in the committee on the environment - we have, on the contrary, proposed to strengthen the proposal even further - but by the committee on agriculture in this parliament. if we look at the biodiversity of europe, it is too declining. if we look at water pollution in europe, it comes primarily from agriculture. if we look at greenhouse gases, 10% of them come from agriculture. that is why we must make demands, and that is why i would also ask the commissioner to stress what environment commissioner potočnik has said, that some of the compromises we have from the committee on agriculture will be directly harmful to the european environment. that is why we cannot support them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, i do not agree with the majority of the committee on agriculture on what is needed to reform agriculture. and i have to say that unfortunately it seems to me that we are rolling back agricultural policy by many years. european agriculture is not going to get any greener! we cannot release the milk quotas! the sugar quotas must be extended! the coupled support must be increased! it leads to food mountains! we will maintain the export subsidies and then we will even move money from pillar 2 to pillar 1. ladies and gentlemen, this is going the wrong way! when the commission put forward its proposal, they said that the agricultural sector should show that it also had a public utility. right now, it's hard to see where the public good is. it is not good for society, it is not good for the environment, and it is not good for consumers. we are missing a chance for a good agricultural reform. i'm sorry to hear that.
the commission is not - mr president, the 2014 budget is the first of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and it may seem presumptuous to make guidelines at a time when we do not know the budgetary framework or the legal basis for disbursement of money from the eu budget. the european council in brussels in december last year gave a clear signal that the european union would not be able to continue its efforts to achieve a lasting peace in the middle east. we must be able to approve the future budgetary framework before it can be finally adopted, and the legal basis, which includes the whole reform of the eu's agricultural policy, which has just been debated, regional policy, research, training programmes, investment in transport, energy and much more. in total, 65 legislative proposals are being negotiated between parliament and the council, so there are many unknown factors that will govern next year's budget. we have nevertheless been as optimistic as the council and have provided a number of guidelines which we would like to see the commission take into account in next year's budget. the guidelines focus on three elements. firstly, how we relate to the 2014-2020 budgetary framework. a majority in parliament would urge the commission to base its own proposals on the budgetary framework and legal basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the question of payment appropriations. they've been consistently under-budgeted in recent years. the council is constantly asking us to push the bills in front of us, and it cannot continue in this way. the eu must live up to the promises it has made and be able to pay its bills. we want the commission to ensure that all the 2012 bills are paid, so that we do not have to start 2014 with another package of old bills, by means of an early amending budget. as in previous years, we would like to work closely with the council and the commission to get better information on which bills are coming and when. it is in the regional programmes in particular that we see these problems of forecasting payments, and it is in everyone's interest that we solve them. finally, there is the third and perhaps most important item, the political title of the next year's budget. of course, it must be 'growth and jobs', because that is what we need in the eu to overcome the serious crisis in many countries. but what can the eu's small budget of just one per cent do? i would say a lot, because when countries lift in a group, the effort works better. the focus on research and education can boost competitiveness and growth in the years ahead. so too do investments in transport, energy and telecommunications. regional policy is also tailored to deliver greater competitiveness and economic growth. we must pay particular attention to the tragic situation in many countries with a towering youth unemployment rate. the eu can support programmes that bring young people into companies for traineeships, so that they do not become a lost generation without knowledge of how a workplace works. paradoxically, some of the countries with high levels of youth unemployment are also experiencing a population trend which will require all hands on the labour market in the coming years, as many people will be retiring. we must make room for the young now, and 2014 must be the year that we really start to do that.
the commission is not - mr president, i think that the debate shows that there is a will in this parliament to help the commission to solve the problem of payments, a will to ensure that we have a proper budget for 2014. it is then up to the commission to make sure that the necessary proposals are put forward and it is up to us, together with the council, to find a solution. i also regret that the council is not here today, and i hope that this is not a warning as to how we are going to work in the coming period. i was very surprised to discover that every single year there was a piece of paper where they agreed on how to work and where they actually put forward a very, very good procedure for getting a serious look at the budget. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. that's just not good enough! i hope that we can have a much better negotiation this time and actually live up to the piece of paper that we put on the table together. one last thing i would mention is the question raised by mr lewandowski, whether administrative expenditure - it was also mentioned by several others - and whether we should show restraint. i agree with that, but the institutions must also be able to function! i think it is important that when we talk about saving administrative costs we make sure that it is smart saving, that we take advantage of the new technological possibilities we have to make things better and cheaper sometimes, but at the same time remember that the headline of it all is that we are working well and efficiently. we don't have to save just to save, we have to do it smart.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'll do my best to keep within the time frame. mrs creighton told us that working on the medium-term budgetary framework would be a big job, and i think she is very much right. first of all, we need to have a common basis for negotiations. we are not yet in a position to put all the figures and agreements on the table. we have been informed that everything is in the final text, but we have some difficulty in seeing it from the messages received from the heads of state after their return. the problem for me and for the liberal group is not the economic framework - it is not necessarily a larger budget we are after. but we want a more flexible budget to finance new needs that could arise before 2020. we want to look at research and education, where funding is almost locked at 2013 levels. it is simply not ambitious enough, and that will become clear as we get to the details. as far as agricultural policy is concerned, there is the question of the movement of money between pillar 1 and pillar 2, where i think we have some problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think there are certain things that need to be considered. i have been told that the form of negotiation used between the heads of state, the one with the turkish bazaar, is the only way to do it. i am afraid that the course we are facing will show that this is the only way not to do it! because there are many problems we are facing now that we have to correct in the process.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, today is a good day for both parliament and the commission in the fight against match-fixing. what we are hearing from both the rapporteur and the commissioner are good words, they are the right words, and they are words put at the right time. there is a real need now to step up the fight against match-fixing. there is no doubt, as has been said by the other rapporteurs and the commissioner, that we have only seen the tip of the iceberg here. all the players you talk to say that this is the very foundation of the sport, the foundation that is going to crumble if we don't act on match-fixing in time. the wave is coming from outside, it's being steered from asia, it's coming in through the balkans, and now it's moving north. so we're all threatened by this, we're all in danger of being undermined by this threat. what is needed is cooperation both globally and in europe. we must also think of european interests, because it is here that many of the major sporting events, such as football, originate, and we have a particular need to preserve the integrity that sport represents here in europe. i am very, very pleased with the resolution tabled here by this house. i am also very pleased with the cooperation we have had on this. i think there are many good proposals and i would like to emphasize what ivo belet also mentioned, namely the question of exchanging experience, exchanging knowledge, establishing a centre from which to gather these things so that we can share experience. the main problem at the moment is that many people do not know what is happening in other countries. of course, we need to have a very clear sense of that. we can do this without violating the subsidiarity of the member states. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for the initiative and cooperation he has shown. i think it looks very promising. so it's a good day for the fight against match-fixing. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
blue card answer. mr president, there is no doubt that the problem raised here is, of course, real. the problem today is that money is accumulated in the big clubs and money is lacking in the smaller clubs. this is where the risks are greatest, of course, at the moment. we see this in the fact that the crime syndicates are particularly involved in the minor leagues. that is not the same as not addressing the problem to the big clubs. nor does it mean that the eu has no role to play. i think it is fair to say that this phenomenon is moving at all levels. we can't say it doesn't affect the big clubs. i should like to draw your attention to the fact that the italian prime minister recently proposed that the entire italian league should be closed down for two or three years, simply to make this happen. so it's on all levels! but i recognize that there is a problem between the very large accumulated sums in the big clubs and the large debt, and a deficit of not very wealthy clubs and players, who are of course more vulnerable to this. but that is not the same as saying that the eu should not attack the phenomenon from all angles.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i think that my colleague here has demonstrated that he knows nothing about sport! i would like to ask, if the political elements of the speech we have just heard are not taken into account, whether the rapporteur cannot/will not confirm that if we are to combat international crossborder crime, it is not enough to have a national police force. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. the rapporteur does not want to acknowledge that?
in writing. - the report on the establishment of the multiannual financial framework for the financing of eu cooperation with the african, caribbean and pacific states and the overseas countries and territories for the period 2014-2020 (a7-0049/2013), which contains strong criticism of the budget agreement concluded between the member states on 8 february 2013, we support the overall agreement in the council and have therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the parliament’s resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff) because i reject the european council’s conclusion on the mff of 7-8 february 2013, as it completely disregards the role and competences of the parliament. further, it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development. this not withstanding, i strongly disagree with the call for the introduction of new genuine own resources and that revenues from a financial transaction tax should be allocated to the eu budget. equally, i do not support the proposal to make full use of the passerelle clause of article 312(2) tfeu, which would transfer power from the member states to the eu-level. i tabled amendments to delete these parts of the mff resolution and my vote in favour of the resolution as a whole is not to be taken as support for these parts, rather, only for the view that the european council’s conclusion should be rejected.
the commission. mr president, today's sad occasion is that another person has died in an israeli prison, possibly as a result of torture, which is well documented. we have a muted but important decision here which also relates to the huge problem of israel's use of arrests. more than 750 000 are believed to have been arrested during the occupation of palestine since 1967. there is hardly a family in palestine that has not been deeply affected by this heartless action by the israeli occupation, and it has even increased: 16% increase in 2012 compared to 2011. people can be imprisoned for years, many without trial or trial, and without contact with their loved ones. yes, you can go on! remember how rightly we were all upset about the israeli gilad shalit, and how happy we were when he was released. why is there anyone in this house who has less compassion for the palestinians? are there too many of them? or are they simply considered second-class citizens? we can at least see that it has become a method of israel to simply undermine the self-esteem of the palestinian people, when even people who protest non-violently against israel's occupation, against the occupying power, are considered to be a threat to security. all decent people in this house should distance themselves from it, and i am deeply shocked by the calls for a split vote that have come from the ppe group, as if it were not our paramount task to be the protectors of human rights and the rule of law in this house.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. to those who are considering voting against backloading, the rescue plan now in place for the eu's quota system, i would say that it would be disastrous for three reasons. firstly, on climate: we need ambitious policy at a time when we are constantly told that our climate action may be even worse than we thought it would be in relation to the real problems that exist. secondly, in relation to the eu: we know that the price of carbon is so low, the price of co2 emissions is so low now, that our whole system and our efforts are at risk of collapse if we don't step up. and thirdly, for the individual countries that are actually leading the way and actually making a move now, the individual companies that are actually doing the things that we ask them to do. if we do not reward that by maintaining a system that makes it economically profitable to actually make an effort, then we are doing them a disservice. in my country, denmark, even politicians from the more established parties, parties which normally support green change, such as the left, have been saying that they really don't know if they can support this. i have to tell them that it will be bad for the climate, it will be bad for the eu's climate policy and it will be bad for denmark if they do not change their position before the vote tomorrow. large companies like vestas, dong, grundfos and danfoss, they make a living by making it profitable to switch to green production. they benefit from the fact that in europe there is a system which ensures that there are economic incentives in the right direction, but which also, of course, ensures that those companies which are not just producing green technology but which have to compete to make the switch faster, they are rewarded. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think that is a very reasonable question. yes, of course, we cannot only use market-based instruments. i think we should also use other instruments, such as regulation for instance. we have just adopted an energy efficiency directive that will definitely also point us in the right direction. but because this is a huge, massive problem, there needs to be a fundamental change in the way we consume and produce energy. we need to use all the policy tools that we have, and one of the most important ones is the ets system. if you are referring to a carbon tax as a possible alternative, there are many reasons why that might be an even better solution, but it is just not very plausible. so we need to use what we have now, and that is the ets system.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask you a question, sir. you probably know how busy we are. we need to start making these changes within five to ten years. how can you even think that it is possible or feasible to have a carbon tax on the scale that you talk about within this time frame?
mr president, i would like to thank you. my concern is that if the european parliament says no tomorrow, there is a risk that the ets system will collapse. but that is what i hear many members want in the first place! so what are we experiencing if it collapses? we will then find that we will have 27 national schemes, and then it is the portfolio of each country that determines how much support it will wish to give in future to innovative new energy. there is a need for adjustments. europe is becoming more and more dependent on imported energy, and it is no good believing that it is so easy to say no and we will get cheaper electricity. we need a change in europe, pollution cannot be free!
in writing. - i am opposed in principle to the ets system and the approach of combating climate change with market-based instruments. however, in the actual situation, a vote against the backloading proposal would politically signal a halt to investment in low-carbon and renewable energy technologies. a vote against the proposal would also be a political signal that climate policy is not a priority. by voting in favour of the motion, i am voting in favour of making climate policy a priority. but above all, the ets system should be fundamentally revised, as it is in no way an effective instrument to combat climate change.
the commission is not - madam president, as a preliminary to the discussion on the 2011 accounts of the european development fund, i would like to make five points: firstly, in the committee's report we regret that the most likely error rate has increased by 3.1% over the last two years to over 5% and that both the error rate and the error rate have increased in 2011. of course, we all know the excuses for not being so bad. and we also understand, of course, that there can be statistical fluctuations from year to year. but fluctuation is different from a constant rise. and that is why it is also crucial that the upward trend we have seen does not continue. if it does, i think it will be very difficult to approve the accounts next year - an approval which will take place a few months before the european parliament elections. secondly, in the report we express our concern that the court of auditors has to find that the monitoring and control systems are only partially effective. it's just not good enough. the monitoring and control mechanisms shall be effective. we understand that a number of initiatives have been taken to improve the situation. and that's good! but then we must also expect that it will be clear in the court of auditors' report for 2012, which we will be examining next year. thirdly, in the report we emphasize the problem of substantial illicit capital flows from developing countries to primarily western financial institutions. we therefore call on the commission to propose the necessary measures to deal with this problem, including the possibility of making it always possible and always public to see where the money flows end up. fourthly, in the report we regret that only four member states are living up to the commitment to spend 0.7% of their gdp on development aid. that in itself is a problem. but the problem is not lessened if the eu's policies in agriculture, fisheries, energy and trade also have a negative impact on developing countries' efforts to combat poverty and ensure sustainable development. i therefore believe that the commission should ensure that these policies do not run counter to the development objectives to which the eu is committed. and fifthly, we note in the report the court of auditors' observation that the court's audit of legality and regularity can go no further than the point at which the aid is paid to the recipient country. we recognise the potential benefits of budget support, but we also point out that budget support is more vulnerable to fraud and corruption than other forms of support. in this context, we insist that an independent national audit body should be an ultimate condition for the granting of budgetary support. in conclusion, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the preparation of this report and i look forward to the discussion we are going to have now. thank you!
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. overall, we in the committee on culture are satisfied with the 2011 budget. in particular, i would like to emphasise that eaca is now using e-forms. of course, that kind of streamlining is the way forward. i would like to raise one point, however, where we have had problems here in 2011. this is a project where we will develop models to support cross-border investigative journalism in europe. we were able to save the project in 2011, after it was on the verge of shutting down for a short period of time. since then, a group of environmental experts have been working together to create a new support model. i cannot stress enough how important this project is. the recent revelations of the power-hungry have demonstrated that investigative journalism is perhaps the most effective weapon in the fight for justice and political progress. europe needs quality journalism that is cross-border and truth-seeking, and we have a historic chance to help by means of this funding model, which journalism itself lacks and desperately needs here in the midst of the crisis. there is a great desire to get started both in parliament and among the journalists involved. i therefore hope that we will soon receive a recommendation from the expert group so that we can also give a positive discharge in 2013.
the commission is not mr president, i would also like to thank you for the debate and to thank the honourable members who have mentioned the edf. it is clear that there are some differences in the way we look at the question of development aid, but i also think that through the work on the report we have reached some common views and some common proposals on how work can be done better in the coming period. and these are the proposals we are submitting to the commission and edf for implementation in the coming period. the european development fund is characterized by the fact that it is not included in the general budget. and that has been a point of criticism for many years from this parliament, and it still is. but i think we are all looking forward to the latest change in this respect when the cotonou agreement expires in 2020. i would also like to take this opportunity to make a single comment on the council, because i am also glad that the council is here. and that, of course, is progress. but otherwise we must say that the fact that the council does not answer our questions is a step backwards. the swedish presidency in the autumn of 2009 actually answered our questions. that is why we also gave the council discharge in 2009. what we have experienced since then is that they have refused to answer our questions. and that is a step backwards. and that's not going in the right direction. and so we have to say, we have to think about, what do we do now? the council's argument has been that when we give discharge to the commission, we also give it to the council. but there is only one option left to us, and that is to put all our questions to the council next year and to the commission. and expect the commission to respond to them. as a precondition for giving the commission discharge. it is not a very good procedure, so the council must be more than sympathetic, they must also get the problem solved.
in writing. - the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted against amendment 11 to the parliament's discharge (a7-0063/2013), as the wording of the proposal 'transparent in all cases' is unclear and difficult to implement in practice. instead, they voted for amendment no 1 to the same report, which deals with the same subject and which provides the desired transparency and is clear in its demands for transparency.
thank you, mr president! the motion for a resolution states, and i quote, that further progress is needed on labour and trade union rights. end of quote. i think you might call that the understatement of the year. in fact, the commission's report is more explicit in its criticism of the suppression of trade union rights in turkey. in recent years we have seen a series of strikes and protests that have been met with police and courts, and we have seen proposed legislation that further undermines trade union rights. this must be unacceptable. that is why i and a number of other colleagues have tabled amendments on this matter. it must be an imperative for turkey to comply fully with ilo standards. i think that should be our message to the turkish government. thank you, sir.
i have to say, madam president, active citizens are a resource. i know from my work in the committee on petitions how much they can contribute. but we must not try to tell them that they can have direct influence - that is also a comment on nicolo rinaldi. it'll only cause more frustration if we say it. we must tell them that they can be the ones to set the agenda, that they can help to ensure that we discuss their ideas here. and i think we have to look at how we can do that best, and we do that by having a really uniform strong treatment here in parliament. i would like to point out that we are trying to make the committee on petitions the 'mainstream committee' which can ensure that we have proper time, that the citizens can come, that we have proper consultation, that the commission can be there at a high level, that the relevant committees are involved and really take the time to do it, so that we get a sense that this is being taken seriously and that we are dealing with it properly. they can then have a great deal of influence, but we must not tell them that they can have decisive power. then we'll only have a disaster. but i hope this will be a good instrument.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every year, the eu countries lose an astronomical trillion euros because of tax evasion. it's money that could have been spent on better welfare. it is also money that distorts competition for the companies that actually pay taxes, and it is money that ends up in the pockets of the very richest in society and of the big companies that move wealth and profits to tax havens. i think there is a very strong moral dimension to this debate. tax evasion has become an elite sport, it is the top of society that is pulling the very big money out of europe, and this is deeply offensive, because everyone must contribute to the cohesion of our welfare societies. everyone should contribute to the things we share in our communities: kindergartens, nursing homes, hospitals and schools. we cannot allow it to be financed only by people who cannot afford or are unable to get away with it. that is why the report by parliament is so important, in particular the proposals for the definition of tax havens, an expanded blacklist country by country, and that is why the summit tomorrow is so important, and i would say to the heads of state of europe: the tools are ready, find the courage. we need to have binding progress in the fight... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it must be admitted and recognised that we can all benefit from having an internal energy market. it is clear that this will strengthen our security of supply at a time when more and more people are using energy policy as a power policy. we see it from the russian side, we see it from the middle east, china and so on. but if the common energy market is to work, then it is not appropriate for us to have many different internal conflicting arrangements between countries. we saw last time, when we were here in strasbourg, during the vote on the withdrawal of quotas from the quota system, how it was really - at least from a danish point of view - a choice between plague and cholera, because one model led to higher pso, that is to say higher public expenditure on the danish electricity bill, and the other model led to an increase in the general level of energy and electricity prices. such national schemes are not compatible with an international market, they are not compatible with an internal market, and as long as we have such differences, it is an illusion to talk about an internal energy market!
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report contains many good points and i am glad that attention is being paid to the grotesque violations of women in the countries mentioned. but there is one theme which seems to come up every time this parliament has to discuss equality, and that is the theme which is also mentioned in paragraph 5 of the report, namely quotas! the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty for a long time. i must confess that i cannot understand why this parliament continues to dwell on this 'quota point of view' - firstly because it contains a disgusting feminist view that women can only drive it to something if quotas are set up for them, and secondly because there are plenty of countries which actually have examples of women doing very well without quotas! in my country, for example, denmark, our prime minister is a woman; my party has had a woman president for 15 years. thirdly, it has already been established that women's quotas are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. this is a matter which at best should be left to the member states, so why do you not leave it alone?
mr president, i would like to thank you. how wonderful that the european parliament is focusing on freedom of the press and of information and expression, but i must admit that there are a few elements which i wonder about which have not been included in this report at all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we have seen on several occasions how the eu representation offices around the member states, on twitter, on facebook and on blogs and so on, are meddling in the political debate. i think that is so inappropriate and completely contrary to the idea of freedom of information and expression which this report proposes. even worse was the report presented to the commission in january, which called for a genuine european press council, which would not only be able to fine journalists who write unfavourably about the eu, but also be able to deprive them of their jobs. that kind of thing would have had its place in this report, but, remarkably, not a word is said about it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i wish there were more of us in this chamber when we discussed this report on the pension systems of the member states - above all because it is so revealing of what the european union is supposed to be for! i refer to the justification just below competences. it says: "pension systems are essentially a national matter". it starts off so well, but then it comes: 'for certain aspects, eu coordination is important'. the rapporteur refers to the requirements of the stability and growth pact. then comes a long manual on how the member states should structure their fiscal policies from public pension schemes to early retirement schemes to social security pensions, etc., all with reference to the stability and growth pact with reference to the single currency. this is exactly what we, who said no to the euro ten years ago, foresaw: that the single currency should be used to conduct a common fiscal policy, which should create a single european superstate, and we do not want that!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm sorry to get into this now. we all agree on the good cause, so i will ask some very specific questions. i have been told that all eight days of negotiations this year within the convention have been spent delaying the negotiations and making the text of the treaty even more complicated, and it cannot be in anyone's interest to make this treaty difficult to access. it is a very simple exception that must be allowed here. there are already very extensive copyright provisions and no one is interested in making them less important. but why spend so much energy making it complicated instead of making it clear? the people who want this done are non-profit corporations. they don't want to ruin anything for the commercial world. we must therefore now present them with a good and clear text so that we can put an end to the widespread so-called 'book famine'. i would ask the commission and commissioner barnier if he can now guarantee us that until the next and crucial meeting in june in marrakesh, there will be a halt to proposals for new and complex texts to protect the existing copyright legislation. we need to move on now. i would also like to join in what many have said: we want to know the mandate itself. what makes this so messed up is that it's the same stuff we're messing around with instead of getting a good text on the table.
mr president, i would like to thank you. but let me add: we are in a situation of growing mistrust among the citizens of the european union in general and of the commission in particular, and it is as if the commission does not care about this. one of the most important principles to be introduced into the administration is the principle of service, where the citizens are always at the centre, and this includes full transparency. when we were campaigning for the lisbon treaty in the member states, one of the good arguments was that there would be more openness and good administration! we could say to the people: 'look here, this is your europe!' and what do we see? i remember from the danish presidency that they were warned against trying to tamper with regulation 1049 because it would be worse! that was the advice the commission gave to the danish presidency - that it would get worse! the commission had not taken into account that there was a majority in this parliament which would not allow things to get worse! but it is very serious that the commission continues to believe that it can simply shove it aside and pretend that new times have not come! let me say one thing: i think that very few of us want to have a culture of zero error in the commission, it stifles everything, it is no use saying that you cannot advise, that you do not have time to think, because then you may risk making mistakes, but everyone can. it is a confidence-building factor that we have openness and that we have put the citizen at the centre, so we must have done something about 1049, and i also think that the commission should come forward with a proposal on good administration, as the commission and the rest of us promised the citizen.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we live in a society today where we as european citizens can move freely across borders. we can travel freely, moving from one country to another. but among those who move or travel, there are some who become victims of violence. being subjected to violence is a violent experience. it can turn the life and the everyday life you knew upside down in a split second. one in five women in the eu is subject to violence by their partner every year. more than 100 000 women in the eu are covered by protection measures. if we include the victims of human trafficking in the accounts, the figure will be even higher. if we are to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, we need to have a high common standard of protection for victims of crime. a single market should not be about goods only. it is equally important to ensure the free movement of union citizens, and we can only do this by putting victims at the centre. it is important that we in all member states recognize the protection of victims. that is why i am very pleased with the results of this work. by simplifying administrative procedures for victims, we ensure that they are protected, whether they travel or move to another member state.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i must admit that i agree that something decisive must be done in the matter of prosecuting those who are guilty of tax fraud, tax evasion, tax evasion, etc. that is why i have supported this report, but i do so with a shaky hand, because i do not recall that we in this parliament have ever before adopted a power in this area which has not immediately led to the commission or another european institution extending this power, and tax policy is so closely linked to the financial laws of the member states, to the danish welfare system, to the whole way our society is structured, that it is an area in which you do not have any competence, and that is why, now that i have voted for this report, i would like to stress that it is absolutely crucial for me that there are watertight barriers between what is now becoming a european issue: namely, on the one hand, combating criminal activity linked to tax evasion and tax evasion and on the other hand, tax policy of the member states. the two things must never be confused.
mr president, i would like to thank you. churhill once quoted alexander the great as saying that the people of asia had become slaves because they had failed to say the word "no". they didn't tell me in time. here in the eu, when people try to take over our sovereignty, we do not just say no. we are also seeing how those who voted for this report are directly saying 'yes, thank you, more of that'. this report is the first step towards handing over tax policy to the eu. tax policy is one of the very lifeblood of a state's sovereignty; it determines what expenditure the state can bear; it determines the degree of equality or difference between citizens; it determines exactly what kind of situation the citizens of the state have to live in. that is what this report is proposing to transfer to the eu. i'm not afraid to say no. this is where i say no!
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, support the objective of promoting social housing and support initiatives to promote the availability and scale of social housing. it will also be beneficial for denmark, which has many public housing and can thus serve as an example for other member states. at the same time, we believe that it is important to promote more environmentally friendly housing and green social housing and that best practice and learning across member states can be beneficial. social housing can also contribute to the social inclusion of vulnerable groups and the fight against ghettoisation. we believe, however, that attention should be paid to the extent to which minimum standards in this area and the link with financing possibilities should be respected. it may be difficult at this stage to assess the financial implications and we believe that the decision on how to finance social housing should be taken primarily at member state level. that is why we have voted in the blank on the issues relating to funding in this report, while supporting the overall objective of the report to promote social housing in the eu.
in writing. − i voted today against the overall report on the establishment of an adjustment rate for direct payments as provided for in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 for calendar year 2013 (a7-0186/2013). i am against the cap in its present form and do not support industrial agriculture, but i will always work for the pre-agreed funds in the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 to be distributed equitably and fairly between the member states, which the report in its adopted form does not ensure. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen, ole christensen and emilie turunen), voted against the joint report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing, for the calendar year 2013, the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 (a7-0186/2013). we are against agricultural aid and the cap in its present form, but we will always work for the pre-agreed funds in the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 to be distributed equitably and fairly between the member states, which the report in its adopted form does not ensure.
in writing. − 22.8% of young people in the eu are currently unemployed, with youth unemployment above 50% in some member states (june 2013). we the danish social democrats have supported paragraph 73 on combating youth unemployment in the european parliament's 'decision on the commission communication on social investment in growth and cohesion, including through the use of the european social fund 2014-2020 (2013/2607 ((rsp)) '. while fully supporting the european council's decision on the eu's seven-year budget, we believe that it may be sensible to consider some flexibility in the use of the six billion euro - earmarked for tackling the problem of youth unemployment and implementing youth guarantees - so that in the first year of the budgetary framework investment can be targeted to combat the high level of youth unemployment in the eu.
for the ecr group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european parliament has long supported efforts to introduce minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. shipping is a global industry, which is why international agreements are necessary. as part of the ratification and implementation of the 2006 convention, we are voting today on its implementation in all eu member states. when we adopt this report, we will ensure that eu law meets all our external obligations. shipowners, masters and flag states are all responsible for ensuring that ships comply with the applicable legal requirements. however, not all flag states ensure effective enforcement, as other members have also mentioned in this house today. but now we are ensuring that the relevant standards are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers and the flag of the ship. we also state that international standards must not undermine higher standards in the eu. i would therefore urge you to vote in favour of the report by mr brian simpson.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. every day, thousands of drivers, both private and commercial, cross the border between two eu member states. the cross-border nature of the transport sector means that we must have certain common rules for all motorists. today there are too many differences between the member states. vehicles approved in one country do not meet the requirements of another, as other colleagues have also mentioned today. today or tomorrow we are going to vote on three reports which will improve road safety in europe. the report on minimum standards for regular checks on motor vehicles will hopefully be extended soon to include scooters and motorcycles, as these are often involved in very, very heavy and serious accidents, especially due to very high speed. i also welcome the report on minimum standards for roadside visibility for commercial vehicles. the proposal ensures that all member states carry out a minimum level of roadside inspections each year for commercial vehicles. i therefore vote in good conscience in favour of these reports. this will improve road safety throughout the eu.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, several people have mentioned here today that the irish presidency had a heavy workload. i'd say it was an impossible workload. it was simply enormous what had to be achieved, both the multiannual budgetary framework, where each country had veto power, and all the underlying legal texts, over 50 different parts that had to come together, and that is why it is incredible that we have managed to get it all to land. i can understand if the irish presidency today feels great relief and joy at having been brought home. that's a nice effort. the alde group did not, of course, call into question the budgetary framework adopted by the heads of state in february. we agree that the eu can live with a smaller budget at a time when many countries are struggling to repair their public finances, but we did not agree with the way the budgetary framework had been allocated. we were disappointed that there was too little emphasis on research and infrastructure development and too much on direct support for agriculture. that is why i am glad that we have more flexibility, we have an agreement on the revision, so that the newly elected parliament in 2016 will have the opportunity to influence the budgetary framework. it is my hope that this will benefit the initiative to combat youth disability, but also ensure that we get more money for research and infrastructure, including more money for the digital agenda. and then we have to get the working party on new own resources going. the sooner the better! we need a new system that is more transparent and understandable. this is necessary to ensure a better debate on the budget in the future.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, the committee on budgets has considered whether the financial transaction tax can be used as new own resources for the eu budget. of course, this is more difficult when not all countries are involved. the picture is now that it will be an enhanced cooperation with the participation of perhaps 11 countries. if we are to have financial transaction tax as new own resources, then we must find a model which implies that when these 11 countries pay financial transaction tax to the common budget, they get it deducted from their previous contributions to the common budget. so it is not a simple matter, but i thank mrs podimata for including the views of the committee on budgets on this. it is clear that it would be easier if it were a financial transaction tax covering all countries, but we know that this is not realistic.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i can say on behalf of the alde group that we are more in agreement with the ppe than with the socialists and with mr giegold on the question of the bonus ceiling and the performance fee. i am glad that this directive gives investors the assurance that they have their assets in the custodian banks. it provides better rules for the protection of investors, and we have a more precise definition, a more precise requirement for deposit banks, which alde fully supports. i thank the rapporteur, mr giegold, for the cooperation we have had and for the joint solutions we have been able to find. on the other hand, we have a problem with the rules on remuneration and fees which were adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we do not support the bonus ceiling for the same reasons as thomas mann mentioned. there are different rules for the investment industry and for the banks. we also do not support the proposed action against performance-based fees. we are not in favour of the detailed regulation proposed in the report. i agree that investors must be given a clear overview of the costs and fees of investing and that associations must continually work to reduce costs. i have personal experience as a board member of an investment company where a large part of the task of representing the investors has been precisely to renegotiate fees and costs all the time so that the investors do not pay unreasonably much. i should like to say that in my country the financial supervisory authority is very keen to see that we negotiate prices down, and so does the press. so there's a focus in many countries on how costs are evolving. if we are to have new interventions in ucits in relation to fees and costs, i believe that a much better analysis of the problem and of the experience in different countries is needed, as well as an impact analysis of different interventions.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats, support the aim of examining the impact of speed on road accidents and the environment and do not believe that a link between increased speed on the one hand and the incidence of road accidents and the impact on the environment on the other can be excluded. we believe, however, that the decision on the maximum speed on the road is ultimately a matter for the member states.
i have to say, madam president, it is now one year since the norwegian government changed the duty on garden hydrangeas from 0% to 72% overnight. it is more than six months since the norwegian government suddenly raised the customs duties on yellow cheese to 277% and the customs duties on beef and lamb to 344% and 429% respectively. norway is not a poor country, but it is a country that has a huge surplus on its balance of payments every single year. the amendments are contrary to both the letter and the spirit of article 19 of the eea agreement, and in particular to point 10 of the most recent bilateral liberalisation agreement which entered into force on 1 january 2012 not long ago. the two parties here promise, and i quote, 'to take steps to ensure that the advantages they grant each other are not jeopardized by other import restrictions'. so when norway raises the customs duties, as they have done, they are doing the exact opposite of what we have agreed! i am well aware that trade in agricultural products between the eu and norway pales in comparison to trade in fish, oil, gas and other raw materials. i also recognize that the overall relationship between the eu and norway has been good, but that is precisely why i am so disappointed by the arrogance of the norwegian government, and to my mind some important principles are at stake. with the european parliament's resolution tomorrow we will send a strong signal to the norwegian government that we will not indulge in protectionism. we are sending a strong signal that the way the tariff increases were decided without a prior agreement with the eu is completely unacceptable! the eea is not and must never be a free buffet where countries can simply pick and choose in the single market. i therefore urge the commission to take the opportunity to give us a clear answer: what will the commission do to put an end to norwegian protectionism? because this cannot continue, not even with other countries.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats, support the importance of adequate studies of the social and economic impact of cuts on access to care for vulnerable groups, including but not limited to illegal immigrants, as these groups can often be particularly vulnerable to the consequences of cuts in care.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i think that there are three objectives which are important to keep in mind in this directive. one is that we have to make sure that we create some incentives to get the necessary investment so that we can go from first to second generation. that must be the most important thing. it requires that we be willing to make some compromises, because it requires a broad and long-term agreement so that market participants know what they have to comply with. it is also necessary to have some binding and ambitious objectives, and i think that this requires a fight against many of the double counts we have today, because they are a bit of a magic trick. the second objective is that we must not damage the investments already made in the first generation. if we damage the investments made in first generation biofuels, it is clear that no one wants to invest in second generation biofuels because they do not trust the politicians. the third is the iluc factor. we need a new model for calculating iluc so that it can become part of the regulator, which of course will have to be introduced at some point because iluc is a factor. i think that there is a good balance between the three parts of the itre proposal and the alde proposal. we can all have our red lines, we can all make our ultimate demands, we can all think that we are right. but politics isn't about being right. politics is about being right. and the more of us who get a little bit right on this issue, the more chance we have of getting a majority so broad that the market starts to act on it, and then we can achieve our goal of a better environment and of creating jobs and jobs in this area. there's a lot of potential if we do this right.
mr president, i would like to thank you. almost all energy consumption in the transport sector is fossil fuels. this is a huge problem! the eu faces a bleak future with rising energy demand, greater oil shortages, higher oil prices and increased dependence on oil imports. the result is uncertainty in the energy supply. the only sensible course for the eu is to invest in a greener and more sustainable transport sector. along with electric cars, advanced biofuels are part of a sustainable path towards fossil-free transport. the potential of advanced biofuels is enormous, both in terms of climate and in terms of job creation. a bloomberg analysis shows that by 2020, we could replace more than 50 percent of our fossil fuel consumption, if we just used 25 percent of agricultural residuals. it is therefore essential that we have an independent sub-target for advanced biofuels. it creates incentives in itself and promotes the development of new advanced technologies. i am very much against the introduction of double and quadruple counting to promote advanced biofuels! this is an artificial way of achieving our 10% renewable energy target in the transport sector and it is contrary to the spirit of the renewable energy directive that we adopted in this house in 2008.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr buzek and my shadow rapporteur colleagues for their good cooperation on this dossier. it has been a pleasure working with them. i also want to thank ms merkies for addressing the issue of micro-generation policy. the prospects here are very interesting and i support what she is advocating tonight. european liberals of course strongly support the ambition of creating an internal market for energy in the eu because a common european market will ensure energy supplies to consumers and companies at more affordable and competitive prices. this stimulates growth and job creation in europe and increases our energy security. furthermore, an internal market for energy is an important part of the path towards more sustainable energy production. that is quite obvious to us all, but we should also recognise that there is a long way to go before we can realise our vision for an internal market for energy in the eu. one reason for this is that legislation concerning the creation of the market is delayed in many member states. therefore i strongly support the report’s focus on the need to ensure implementation of existing eu legislation in the member states. today the european parliament is sending out a strong and unmistakable message to the governments in europe that they must live up to their commitments in the third energy package, and we are also highlighting the importance of a more coordinated approach at eu level towards national capacity mechanisms. national capacity mechanisms can be necessary in some circumstances, but much too often they are counterproductive as regards the aim of creating cross-border markets. i therefore strongly support the call to the commission to ensure a stronger and more coordinated approach capable of guaranteeing that capacity mechanisms will be transparent and technologically neutral and will not discriminate. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i have not discussed this with my group. but i'm going to discuss it and i think it's interesting and my immediate answer would be yes.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. equality is one of the five values on which the eu is founded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market. i cannot stress enough how important it is that we push for an amendment to the directive on equal pay for european citizens. equal pay for equal work or work of equal value has been a fundamental principle of the union since the treaty of rome, but despite 40 years of extensive legislation we have still not reached our goal. i think it's a huge problem that we still see in 2013 that typical women's jobs are generally paid less than traditional men's jobs. because we know that the gendered labour market is a central explanation for the lack of equal pay. there is a risk that a higher level of social benefits and lower wages in women's occupations will further cement the gender divide. the consequences are less labour utilisation, lack of flexibility and less genuine freedom of choice for both men and women in both education and employment. the pension scheme is particularly hard on women. it is a growing problem in line with demographic trends, and we are already seeing older women sitting on the streets of lisbon and elsewhere begging because they cannot live on their pensions. we are obliged to abolish the gender pay gap and i am therefore anxious to hear what the commission has in mind, because we are not going to wait any longer!
in writing. - the left is in general agreement with the text on online gambling as it has been adopted. the left is, however, opposed to monopolies in principle and is therefore not in favour of member states establishing monopolies in the gambling sector.
the commission is not the immediate reaction in parliament to the council's budget proposal is disappointing. disappointment at the cuts in the areas which are supposed to ensure growth and employment and at the cuts in payments which, as we all know, are so low that it is doubtful whether the eu can live up to its commitments. it is not sustainable, and i would say that it is a budget of savings already from the commission, a budget which is 5-6% below the level of this year, so the commission already presented a budget of savings. the council, in the commission's proposal, is cutting the amounts for research and innovation and is in fact going against the agreement reached with parliament in july on the multiannual financial framework. it was agreed here that we should increase funding in 2014 for research, education and innovation. it is a shame if the council does not live up to that agreement, and therefore it will be important for parliament to ensure adequate appropriations for this area and also for the youth initiative which is to tackle the high level of youth unemployment in many countries. there are other parts of the budget where the appropriations are tight. mr lewandowski has mentioned the external budget, and we are concerned about the situation in syria, where a growing number of refugees is creating new demands on the eu budget. the council has systematically cut the budget lines for the administration of programmes, and here too we are so far behind that it is unsustainable. that was also mentioned by the commissioner. finally, we have the appropriations for the agencies. we in parliament do not entirely agree with the commission on this, but we would say that financial regulators are an area which we will pay close attention to in the negotiations. we will be looking very closely at the budgets of the agencies. traditionally there has always been uncertainty about the amount of payments to be allocated to the budget. there is a great deal of uncertainty about when the bills for large projects will run out, and this has meant that for many years we have systematically accepted that the amount to be paid by the member states should be cut, but now we are down to the point where it really hurts. the commission is already having great difficulty paying its bills this year, and next year we risk seeing the situation worsen. it is intolerable that the commission should be put in this situation and that is why parliament will have a strong focus on payment appropriations in the forthcoming negotiations. all in all, i would say that we are probably facing some very difficult negotiations. they will be linked to the negotiations on the amending budgets for the current year, which will take place shortly. i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency and mr rimkūnas for the preliminary work leading up to the negotiations. i believe in good cooperation, and in my country we always say that where there is a will, there is a way. i do not doubt the lithuanian presidency's willingness to find solutions, but i know that you will have a difficult situation with countries behind you who only want to save and do not look at the real situation. we must ensure that the commission is put in a position to pay its bills.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, my group fully supports mr la via's report. what i think is left is this: mr lewandowski now promises to bring forward a new amending budget at the end of the month for the second tranche of the 11.2 billion euro, and we must then hope that the council will pay. but is that enough? so, are we all settled in? or are we in fact in the situation that we will also see more bills coming in during 2013 than can actually be paid, so that we are pushing a snowball of unpaid bills ahead of us that will come in 2014? i would like to hear the commissioner's statement on that. will these 3.9 billion really be enough, or do we have more unpaid bills coming in? it is a completely intolerable situation that the council promises, year after year, that if there is not enough money, it will be provided. mr rimkūnas made the same promise today. he said: 'well, if the budget we are now adopting does not contain enough money for the bills that are coming in, we will pay.' and then when the commission comes and says that more bills have come, that the money is needed, the council says: 'no, we do not believe that.' it is a completely absurd situation which puts the commission in a very difficult position. we have passed legislation in parliament and in the council, we have adopted budgets, according to which money is to be spent on various projects, but when the projects are to be paid, the bills are not to be paid. it puts the commission in a situation between plague and cholera, and that is a situation we must overcome! but as i said, my group supports mr la via's report. we're just not sure if it's gonna solve the problems.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, i have to speak. after years of economic and financial crisis, europe's youth unemployment has gradually become a bleeding wound in the eu economy. while there is a recovery coming around the world, the prospects for millions of young europeans who are without jobs or prospects for a better future remain bleak. eurostat figures for april showed that 5.6 million young people were unemployed, an average of 23% across the eu and over 50% in the hardest hit countries such as greece and spain. the problem behind these figures is that a large proportion of the eu population is at risk of being excluded from our societies in the future. these are young people with a wide range of interests. it is not just the vulnerable young people, whose access to the labour market has been made even more difficult by the crisis, but also the young people who have done everything that politicians have asked them to do: they have studied, they have been in training, and yet they are unemployed every morning. it is not only destructive to the individual youth but to society as a whole. worse still, young people are tempted to work where they do not receive the pay or working conditions to which they are entitled, where young people are victims of wage dumping. the crisis has not only made it harder to get a job, but it has made it harder to get a proper job. europe's challenges cannot be solved by a snapshot, they require political will, adequate funding and a strong commitment from the individual member states. we can start with the more urgent measures to combat youth unemployment, such as the european youth guarantee, which can provide a quick injection of salt water. will today's debate solve youth unemployment? i hope that it will help us in this parliament to find the political will to take further steps to solve the current youth challenge.
author. − mr president, as you all know, tomorrow we will vote on the resolution on the digital agenda. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy for their tremendous cooperation. i also want to thank the commissioner for her cooperation, both in the run-up to the voting on tomorrow’s resolution and the presentation of the telecom package tomorrow. i am glad that we share the same goals and values and that commissioner kroes dares to be ambitious. i want to acknowledge that, madam commissioner. i am happy to tell you that today you see before you a european parliament which is unanimous. for the first time we made a resolution that went through the committee on industry, research and energy with a single vote and all parties are on board. that means that you have the best support you can ever get for your telecom package being presented tomorrow. we expect you to use this support at the summit in october and in the forthcoming negotiations with our member states. it is a crucial moment for europe, because we need a european internal market and we need it urgently. it is impossible to explain to european citizens that we have an internal market in which the noise from lawnmowers is regulated, that we have rules on what a banana should look like, and that we are all so happy to have an internal market on almost everything, but that at the same time we are not able to find a solution for creating a genuine european internal market for telecommunications. we have 500 million consumers in europe, of whom more and more own a smartphone or a tablet which they often have to switch off when they travel abroad to avoid high roaming fees. over the last two decades we have lost ground. the world envied europe as we pioneered the global mobile industry in the early 1990s, but today our industry can barely sell to a continent lacking in 4g and consumers miss out on the latest technological and device improvements. i am happy to tell you that in the resolution being voted tomorrow the european parliament declares that this situation has to stop. we want to put an end to this fragmented market which is not fit for global competition. only a single telecom market will allow the whole digital ecosystem to recapture a leading global role. so we urge the council to be more ambitious and to step over its own shadow and help the commission and, in particular, commissioner neelie kroes. her proposals will get rid of red tape, make it easier to invest in networks, foster competition by breaking up the 28 telecom markets and will allow telecom operators to offer their services in the whole european union. these commission proposals and the parliament’s resolution will form the most ambitious package in years. it will help us build a connected, competitive continent with sustainable digital jobs and industries. it will make life better by enabling consumers to enjoy the digital devices and services that they love. last but not least, it will make it easier for businesses and entrepreneurs to create jobs for the future. i call on the council, the commission, and of course my colleagues here in the european parliament, to work together to make these ambitions a reality.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i have three things to say. first of all, a big thank you to mr salavrakos for a good report, and of course a big thank you to mr diamandouros for his fantastic work, which has helped to make the ombudsman a solid institution - i do not know how solid it is, i hope it is a solid institution - among the eu institutions and one which the citizens can use properly. i would like to thank all of us for ensuring that we could continue that tradition and that we now have a real ombudsman who can build on the institution, again despite the difficulties. and so, of course, a big congratulations to the citizens, who have been assured of continued and hopefully increased good access. the next point i would like to mention is the continuing lack of regulation on good administration. i could not quite hear from mrs reding's speech whether it is coming, but i would say that it is indeed crucial that we get it and that it will be based on the principle of service, so that the citizen is at the centre, so that it is a matter of protecting the citizen and not the officials. it is the best protection against corruption and the best card we can give our union that citizens feel that they are being treated well and fairly here. that's why i can't believe it's been so hard to get through this. the last thing i would mention is the case that all the candidates for the post of ombudsman highlighted diamandourus for, namely that he had ensured transparency in the pharmaceutical industry and that he had even persuaded the ema to follow up. but what happens then? the court of justice then quite reflexively takes the side of industry! and paralyze everything for two years. i think it is a real scandal to mention here that the ombudsman's ruling has been violated, that we have been violated, that regulation 1049/2001 has been violated, that the charter of the court of justice has been violated, because it has been said that if it were to happen that industry would win, they would have lost. what about the citizens? what about the health of the citizens? thank you, mr diamandourus, for a very fine job for the ema. finally, to all of us, there is still a long way to go!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am also pleased and grateful, as a representative of the committee on culture, for the rapporteur's contribution to the very important debate that must take place and the many initiatives that must be taken on the creative sector. i fully agree with the premise that the creative sector can make a huge contribution to helping to get out of the crisis and create new jobs. the reason i am taking the floor is that, after reading the report, i was disappointed to find that it is also marked by a certain protectionism, the idea that culture can be wrapped in cotton wool and thus helped. i would like to draw particular attention to article 60, which is an attempt to introduce this cultural exception into the free trade negotiations with the united states. we in the liberal group do not support that! it will do more harm than good, in my view. i believe that the way forward for culture is to open up and create as free a market as possible. i have every confidence that culture will survive nationally. i have no doubt that the french and danish and other cultural sectors will be able to cope with the american challenge (as my colleague said a moment ago). so that is a red line for me and for the danish delegation. we cannot have attempts to sneak this cultural exception into the free trade negotiations when there is so much at stake as in the free trade negotiations with the united states.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. - i'm not going to lie to you. you guys! the epp and renate sommer want to stop the health claim that carbohydrates help to maintain normal brain function. we in the socialist group are not fond of health claims either, but if we follow the epp and renates sommer's example, the health claims will not disappear. on the contrary, it will lead to the appearance of these health claims on chocolate bars, cakes, biscuits, etc. we'll be able to read on the shelves of the supermarkets: this chocolate bar is good for your brain! it's just not working! it only benefits multinational corporations like nestlé and supermarkets in general. it is not in the interests of consumers! the only way we can really prevent this deception is to support the commission's proposal as it stands. the commission considers that the use of the health claim is in fact restrictive. the commission's proposal is simply to prohibit the use of this health claim on products with a high sugar content, such as cakes, sweets, soft drinks, etc. we in the socialist group believe that it is important to be able to limit the use of this health claim if we are to be able to combat the development of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, etc. we simply cannot allow unhealthy foods to be presented as having health value. we think it is extremely important that we give consumers a true picture of what is healthy and what is not. we therefore support the commission's proposal and we oppose the epp group's wish to reject this health claim.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is indeed quite appalling that we did not put russia's cruel treatment of greenpeace on the agenda now. there is nothing in either international or russian law that gives the russian coast guard the right to board and seize a ship in international waters, and the accusation of piracy against the entire crew of the arctic sunrise is insane. even those who tried to climb the gasprom platform, the accusation is completely out of proportion and a trivialisation of the pirate threat. if there are any pirates here, it's the russian coast guard. i would urge catherine ashton and, by extension, all member states to give their full support to the netherlands in the action against russia before the international tribunal for the law of the sea. even more alarming than the flagrant violation of greenpeace are the plans for oil exploration in the fragile arctic environment. the arctic affects us all, and when the accident happens, and it does, it poses a threat to the entire globe and not just the countries around the arctic. greenpeace has been the first international voice to speak for all of us here, and they should be thanked and supported, not persecuted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. smoking is killing you! it's that simple! and the number of young smokers is on the rise. we're getting more and more of them. every year 700 000 people in the eu die from smoking. in denmark, the figure is 14 000. so we should just sit back and do nothing? no, of course we have to act! we need tougher rules so that we can make an effort to prevent young people from starting to smoke. this is crucial! and we have the rules on the table now. it is extremely important that we support linda mcavan and the proposal on the table so that we can prevent young people from starting to smoke. because with a strict set of rules we can save lives, and i think it is our duty to save the lives of european citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i fully agree with the aim of this directive, which is to reduce the number of young people who start smoking. in the north of europe we have a number of citizens, former smokers, who use snus, and it is incredible that we now want to ban snus, which is up to 90% less harmful than smoking tobacco. i believe that it should be up to each member state to decide whether they will allow or prohibit snus, which is a traditional oral smokeless tobacco product that is far, far less harmful than smoking tobacco. so it is not relevant to ban snus when cigarettes are allowed.
for the ecr group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. decisions are rarely better than the basis on which they are made, so it is important that decisions with far-reaching environmental consequences are thoroughly investigated. i welcome the fact that the proposal calls for environmental assessments to include aspects that improve environmental protection, increase resource efficiency and promote sustainable growth in europe. i think it is a natural consequence of both our political priorities and international conventions that we are moving in this direction. it is important for the people and for the environment. i therefore warmly support the rapporteur's proposals on minimum and maximum time limits for public consultations, simplification of administrative procedures and independence of the control authorities. i also see the proposal as a clear strengthening of the democratic right of citizens to information and participation. so thank you for that! i personally would vote in favour of the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the result of today's vote is in my view in order, considering the measures taken on the cigarette front. and i fully agree that we must do everything we can to limit young people's access to cigarettes in particular. i am in favour of a tobacco directive on principle. i voted no today because we risk that some of the proposals which have now been adopted may threaten small and mediumsized enterprises which produce niche products such as pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, etc. in addition, it is no longer up to the countries to decide on this. so it is no longer a national matter whether to allow or prohibit snus. today's vote has banned snus, and i must say that snus, as we all know, is much less harmful than smoking tobacco. that is why i think it is regrettable that cigarettes are allowed but snus is prohibited.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'smoking' in the wording of the directive. we have tried to put the vote in favour of measures to prevent young people from starting to smoke. tobacco smoke is especially dangerous, and flavorings such as vanilla and licorice make it easier for young people to start smoking. tobacco products targeting older people, such as pipe tobacco and cigars, do not need to be regulated as strictly. we have taken this into account in our vote.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i had actually written a speech in advance. i think i shall put that aside after the council's comments. i should like to begin by thanking the council for coming here today. of course, this is progress. but i would then ask the question: does this also mean that the council will be present when we are discussing the committee on budgetary control? we are in the process of the discharge procedure for 2012. will the council attend this debate or will it continue to refuse to discuss it with parliament? it is a little easier to discuss this in the relevant committee than it is to discuss it here in the chamber. the council says there should be reciprocity. i personally do not object to parliament answering all the questions that the council might wish to put. and i can personally guarantee that all the questions which the council has to put to parliament will be passed on to parliament. but that's beside the point! what is crucial is that parliament has the power to grant discharge to the council. that is why parliament is asking the council questions. the council is not required to grant discharge to parliament. that's why things don't add up. how can discharge be given without first getting answers to questions? we can only take one example, since the council says that there has been no criticism of its accounts. let us take one question: how is it that the council has transferred money to the travel account from the translation account year after year - and the following year asked for more money for translation, which has also been transferred to travel? there's got to be an explanation! if we are to move forward, the council must begin to answer the questions that are being asked.
mr president, i would like to thank you. violence against women is a violation of women's fundamental rights and is a major problem in europe. one in five women will be physically abused in her lifetime, and one in 10 will be sexually abused. if we do not actively intervene, we fail the women. but we're also failing the social economy. domestic violence costs €120 billion a year in the eu and €500 million in my own country, denmark. it is impossible to assess the personal cost of the battered woman and her quality of life, but we know that women who have been subjected to violence have almost three years of life with chronic illness. we are not going to accept that violent criminals are costing society hundreds of millions of euros every year and are at the same time entitled to destroy the lives of many thousands of women. it's time to act. the first step is for member states to sign and accede to the council of europe's istanbul convention. the commission must also take a stand and put forward specific legislative proposals on how we can combat violence at european level.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is becoming a recurring but discouraging event to experience these discharge procedures, particularly as regards the council. we are again faced with a report in which it is deplored that the rules on tendering have not been respected, that the discharge procedures have not been respected in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 etc. and that is simply not a situation worthy of the council. in general, we see how the financial management here in the eu institutions is under attack: projects that should never have been funded, projects where money goes into the wrong pockets, projects where procedures are not followed, and so on and so forth. the big question is not whether we in this parliament are prepared to do something about the laissez-faire mentality that exists in the other institutions. the big question is really: how long will the taxpayers and voters of the eu member states continue to finance this farce?
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone agrees that the single market is a good idea in the sense that the more we trade together, the more we can move goods and services across borders, the richer we become. but the question is whether the single market we have today is also what we had originally been given the prospect of, whether it is what we really had an expectation of. today, the internal market has also become an internal market for welfare services. we are seeing how, after a very short period of presence in a country, after a very short period of participation in the labour market, one can claim welfare benefits which in some countries, including denmark, are paid for 100% by the taxpayer. in my view, it is completely unreasonable that after a very short stay in, say, denmark, one can claim su for one's children who are not even studying at danish educational institutions. or that you should be able to get cash assistance after working in denmark for only a few weeks for perhaps ten hours a week. it just doesn't add up! we must reform that part of the internal market - or at least make a new reservation for denmark.
in writing. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. we are very concerned about limiting the spread of bacteria, which is a regular problem around europe. although the european commission's proposal for visual inspection may at first sight appear to be a deterioration, after consulting with experts we have come to the conclusion that visual inspection will increase food safety, as the spread of infections such as salmonella will be significantly reduced. however, this requires that farmers provide the slaughterhouses with the necessary information on their pigs to enable the disease history of the animals to be monitored.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank edward mcmillan-scott for a good report and then concentrate on two points. one is, as tatjana ždanoka also mentioned earlier, that there is a tendency in our committee to try to limit cases if they come from the ppe, that is, from the conservatives. it is not surprising, because it is very often conservative governments that are criticised. unfortunately, there is also support from the s&ds because of their governments, but that undermines our credibility! i would urge that the limitation of our subjects contained in the report be voted down and that you therefore vote against the second part of paragraph 34 of the report. in addition, the report contains a very embarrassing criticism of our secretariat for not doing the job well enough. our secretariat has far too few resources, and that is why the criticism simply does not seem fair. then please also vote against the second part of point w. and then i think that the plenary should welcome our new ombudsman. i think it is a bit unfortunate that our new ombudsman has not had the opportunity to greet parliament as such. she should have that next time. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card answer. i am not sure that this is the case. i can understand why peter jahr would want to do that, because that is a serious accusation too! but we have often seen at coordinator meetings that attempts have been made to change our working procedures in such a way that the committee is deprived of the responsibility for assessing petitions and attempts have been made to limit it. that war has been going on for five years! now, with the support of the social democrats, it has been introduced in the mcmillan-scott report that a large part of the responsibility must be taken away from us. it is clearly a campaign by the epp.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i am not sure that this is the case. so we cannot use the ordinary voting procedure in our committee, because it gives the conservatives, because they are in the majority, the opportunity to vote out petitions simply because they do not like them. that's what happened! as regards the coastal law, which violates a number of eu directives and for which we have full jurisdiction, mr iturgaiz is trying to get rid of it by claiming that he has the majority. that is what i call partisan politics in our committee! and i would also like to point out that i have been at the forefront of reports criticising denmark on several occasions.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrat delegation (emilie turunen, ole christensen, britta thomsen, dan jørgensen and christel schaldemose) support the excellent report which highlights a number of the challenges facing eu citizens in relation to eu cooperation. however, we cannot support the wording in paragraph 21 on custody cases and child abductions, where denmark is highlighted as a country with special problems. it is true that there have been cases, but there is no basis to conclude that there are special problems in denmark compared to other eu countries - neither in terms of legislation nor in terms of enforcement.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. here is steel best steel granny with artificial knees and artificial hips and a great awareness of the importance of having full control of the things that are being fitted into us to be safe enough. the industry's resistance to proper control and their claim that it is being over-bothered is frankly inappropriate when you consider what it is all about. i think we have got a good line and i would like to thank first of all the rapporteurs, namely peter liese and dagmar roth-behrendt, for their excellent work and cooperation. i think we have a pretty good result. i would like to say to mr liese in particular that i think it is good that we have got the ethics committees to stand strong in their work and also that we have got the requirement for qualified advice in relation to genetic testing. and now for those of you who are concerned about whether we have got a sufficiently restrictive approval procedure: if we get full transparency - and here also full transparency for the type of researchers who are able to see through whether the tests have been done correctly, that is to say, can see the method and set-up and have access to all the results - then we have a good chance that by the end of it we can get to a safe system. i think that we should also encourage member states to criminalise industries which restrict safety, because it is the health of people that is at stake. so thank you for all the work, and we also ensure transparency, so i am at least also sure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. artificial hips that disable people instead of helping them. breast implants that leak dangerous substances. or the lower abdomen that gives you pain. the list of medical device scandals is long. we now have legislation which could help in this area. does that help? the problem is that it will only partially do so. we are closing some loopholes with this proposal on the table. unfortunately, not all of them. we social democrats, with dagmar roth-behrendt at the head, have fought for a central authorizing authority to ensure that we do not have scandals in the future. but the right wing in this house has been more concerned with industry than with patients. and a central licensing authority has been something that both doctors and patients have wanted. that's really, really sad! but with that said, thankfully, it's a little bit better for the patients. it'll be a little safer in the future. we'll be able to get a little more control, and we'll be able to do unannounced visits around the factories, so of course we'll have to take that into account. i think i will use the words of mr dagmar: 'this is a step forward, but unfortunately it is not a milestone for the future of patients!' (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i am very much in agreement with you, but do you not think that if we actually achieve full openness, so that those who try to cheat have no opportunity to do so and cannot hide, then we will have solved the dramatic aspects of this problem and we will be better able to allow the concerns of small and mediumsized enterprises, for example, to be taken into account because they have no chance of escaping effective control?
blue card answer. thank you for that, margrete! yes, transparency is important. and that's another step along the way. but i do not think that a single set of rules on transparency will solve the problems, when there are almost 80 notified bodies throughout europe. it would have been better to have concentrated the expertise in one place. it would have given us a better chance of controlling things and ensuring that we could prevent corruption, and ensuring that we could get safer products for patients. but transparency is clearly a step in the right direction.
the commission is not the commission's budget for the financial year 2014, which parliament will be voting on tomorrow, is a savings budget. although our proposal is well over half a percentage point higher in commitment appropriations and just over one percentage point higher in payment appropriations than the council's figures, the total budget is 5-6% lower than the current year's budget. there are not many member states that can show national budgets that have a similar reduction in expenditure, so when it is stressed that we must be frugal and show understanding for the member states' inability to pay in the face of the crisis and large budget deficits, we must say that we show this understanding. in its examination of the 2014 budget, parliament has taken as a starting point the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which was concluded in june but which we have not yet approved. we still have to approve amending budget 8 with the eur 3.9 billion to be paid this year. we need some legislative texts and we need the setting up of the working party on own resources. hopefully, all this can be put in place in november, but this of course means that the whole negotiation of the eu's 2014 budget will be carried out in parallel with the clarification of the remaining outstanding issues. i hope, however, that we can work well together with the lithuanian presidency, with mr rimkūnas, to find a solution for next year's budget. where, then, are we allocating more appropriations? well, these are areas that can boost economic growth, areas that can increase security in europe, combat crime, and that can address the refugee problem in the middle east and some of the refugee flows that we're seeing coming into the eu. we have incorporated the commission's amendment no 1 which contains the agreement to accelerate investment of eur 200 million in research, training and innovation and in general we have reinstated the amounts proposed by the commission, but in some places we have gone beyond the commission's level. it is money to launch the digital agenda and research into future technologies, which is a subject at the forthcoming summit of heads of state, and i hope that the fine words we will surely hear in this context about the need for the eu to join the digital development can also be translated into action. as in the past, too little money is available to meet the eu's commitments to refugees in the middle east. we see it every year. the commission expects parliament to deliver the money, and we will, but i think it is unfortunate that the commission does not come forward with a realistic offer in advance. the budgetary framework for foreign policy is very tight and we have therefore had to use the flexibility instrument in foreign policy. we have also used the flexibility instrument in the financing of regional policy, where there is extra money for cyprus and the fund for the poor and vulnerable, which makes the framework very tight, and this is also where we have to find the money for the effort to combat youth unemployment. we have increased the appropriations for a number of agencies which are given new tasks in the financial sector, in the transport sector, in the judicial field, more money for frontex, and we reject in the strongest terms the commission's idea that agencies which are growing must draw resources from other agencies. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for a very good cooperation on the budget. it's been very constructive. the budget will be adopted by a large majority. i know that the socialists would have liked to have had a larger budget for payment appropriations by speeding up payment appropriations. we all agree that we have a huge problem of unpaid bills, but there was not widespread support for the solution proposed by the socialists. i would like to thank you, mr president.
the rapporteur is requesting the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the great work they have done, not least mrs anne jensen, who has made a great effort to put this report and this agreement in place. i would like to say first of all that one of the things that annoys me, and has annoyed the committee on constitutional affairs, is that the budget is forward-looking. there is little focus on evaluating the previous programmes that have been implemented, such as the information campaign ahead of the 2009 european parliament elections. it would have been good to have an evaluation of what worked and what didn't work back then before putting more resources into the lake ahead of next year's 2014 parliamentary elections. the same applies to the european year of citizens. nobody really knows what we got out of it. nobody knows whether any of the citizens of the union were reached, etc., or whether the money was even used for anything sensible. the committee on constitutional affairs would like to see this kind of evaluation, also in relation to the citizens' initiative, which is facing quite serious problems, included in next year's budget. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, of course, because there has been a very high level of sympathy for the other priorities which we in the afco committee have put forward. the point is, of course, that we now have a smaller budget - a budget which reflects the crisis in the member states and which can therefore be taken seriously, even by the people in this house who talk about nothing but the crisis and cuts. it is reasonable for the eu to follow the situation in the member states. so thank you for the great work that has been done and for the welcome that, after all, has been ours.
the commission is not i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate today. i hope that it demonstrates to both the commission and the council that we have had a very, very serious and thorough examination of the budget. mr rimkūnas said that, as a matter of principle, it was not considered that we should go over the commission's budget. and no, the council has wanted to go below the commission's budget. but i would now like to point out that there are some things that we have pointed out - for example the digital agenda, for example more money for eurosur and frontex - which address some very topical issues, which i also think the council would be pleased to consider. in addition, we have wanted to vote on a number of pilot projects and preparatory actions, for which there is no legal basis, but where we test good ideas, and we would of course also like to be able to find room for this in the budget. then there is the question of the agencies, where we have a disagreement with the commission, which believes that there should be an automatic system whereby agencies which grow should in principle be financed by the other agencies. we are all in favour of them saving manpower, as are other parts of the commission and the eu institutions, as they have increased working hours by 1% a year, but we do not want this automation. i would say that a communication has been received from the commission on developments up to 2020. we do not support it in parliament, and it cannot be said that when we vote for the 2014-2020 budgetary framework we are in favour of what is said in that communication. that's something we need to discuss. as regards payments, the bills have to be paid and i am glad to hear from mr rimkūnas that we should have all these amending budgets in place by 30 october, because that would mean that they will not be included in the debate on the 2014 budget, which i think we should be able to discuss separately. but i must say that there are a few conditions attached to it. i can understand the council saying that it will not say yes to the 8th amending budget, the 3.9 billion, until we have said yes to the multiannual financial framework, and then things will bite a little bit. i hope that we can resolve all these problems over the next month so that by the time we reach 13 november we will have a good solution on the budget. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the rapporteur, mr president, has given us a blue card answer. - well, i agree with mr posselt that if we are to save on agencies, we must look at which ones we want and which ones we do not want. that is the direction i think we should take: look at whether there are possibilities for merging agencies and whether there are agencies we no longer need. that's the way to do it. i shall not deal with the specific agency he is pointing to, whether that is what we should have or not. but we must not have greenhouse cuts where you automatically cut all agencies and make it impossible for them to work, or cut agencies at random. we have to look at the specific agencies, which are needed and which are not needed, and then i would say that it should not be that because we have a geographical dispersion and have agencies spread out in different cities in europe, we cannot run things efficiently. if we are to make any consolidation, we must deal with the whole question of geographical distribution. that's the way i think we should go.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to speak about the most important reports together. i voted to put patient safety first. that is why i have supported unannounced inspections and higher requirements for the approval of medical devices. for me and my party, it is important to have a clear traceability of implants and open information about the products. that is why i have also supported better advice on genetic testing. i have voted against the right of industry to recycle disposable equipment. i would very much like to see a ban on this practice and i simply do not understand the colleagues who have fought for the recycling of equipment produced for one use only, as the safety of recycling can be questionable. to me, it's gambling with the trust and health of sick people.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, voted for paragraph 25 on the possibility for eu citizens to be educated in their rights in relation to the opportunities and benefits of the right to free movement within the eu. we do not, of course, mean that eu citizens from less generous welfare systems than the danish should be taught how to benefit from the danish welfare system. but we believe that eu citizens as a whole should be informed about the rights and duties of eu citizens, including the right to work and study across eu borders. on paragraph 81 we voted neither for nor against the question whether the european commission should monitor national education systems in relation to whether they meet certain objectives. we are not opposed to the eu supporting the development of national school systems, especially in countries where they are not so well developed, but it is outside the eu's competence to intervene in the education systems of national states, as provided for in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of the report on 'patient safety and acquired infections in health care', as we consider this area to be very important. europe is experiencing an increase in antibiotic-resistant bacteria and it is vital that we address the problem. the report makes a number of positive calls to the european commission and the eu member states. however, we do not agree on certain points. in particular, we do not support the call for the designation of a local contact authority responsible for providing information to patients on patient safety. because of the principle of subsidiarity, we do not consider it a matter for the eu to advise on how member states should provide patient information. however, we believe it is important that patients receive information so that they can make choices from there. we also do not support the ema to make general guidelines for off-label use, as use must depend on a case-by-case assessment. we are not against off-label medicine as such, as we recognise that it may be the only way out for certain rare diseases with no treatment options. but we think that health professionals should be very careful about their use, as we've seen serious consequences in the past with off-label use. we also believe it is important that healthcare professionals and patients are thoroughly informed about the possible consequences of using off-label medicines.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, the foundation of the european union is, as you know, the so-called four freedoms of the internal market: the free movement of labour, goods, capital and services. most people know them. but in the eu we have also gained a fifth freedom: the free movement of organised crime across borders. crossborder crime costs the eu countries enormous sums, primarily in the form of tax revenue. in this sense, organised crime is also a threat to welfare. it undermines the ability of countries to finance schools, hospitals and good conditions for the elderly. but the rise of organized crime does more than that. through money laundering and corruption, it penetrates the business world and political life. in that sense it is also a threat to democracy and to the right of the people to decide. that is why we welcome this discussion. we particularly welcome the report's call for the abolition of banking secrecy. it points to one of the most sensitive points, namely the role played by the banking system as a tool of organized crime. unfortunately, we do not think that the report is taking the full consequences. that is why we have tabled a number of amendments, including a ban on cash transactions above a certain amount. the black economy must be brought to light if we are to be able to fight organised crime. we thank the rapporteur and we thank all those who have contributed, but our final position on the report will depend on how our amendments fare in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the light of the discussion, i have a direct question to the council which i hope the council will answer because it is so incredibly brief. it is based on the fact that the council said that it was based on an assessment of the qualifications of the candidate in question. but at that time the council was aware that the candidate in question had lied to parliament. that is why we have to ask whether lying to parliament is part of the qualifications - and that is precisely for a post where we need extreme confidence, namely because it concerns the control of eu money. but the short question is: does lying to parliament really form part of the qualifications?
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, the european union has two very different social systems. one system is based on low public services and low taxes. instead, social benefits come from insurance schemes, either private or through the workplace. the second system is based on high public benefits and a relatively high tax. this is the model that has been used in scandinavia in the first place, but let us call it the collective welfare model here. the difference between the two systems is clearly shown by the proportion of gross domestic product that is taxed. in 2010, for example, it was 28.2% in ireland and 27.1% in lithuania. conversely, for example, 45.8% in sweden and 47.6% in denmark. i am not going to be a judge of what system is right. that must be up to the people of the countries to decide. that's what they call democracy. but the problem is that the eu has clearly chosen to side with the collective welfare model. on the one hand, the european court of justice has dictated the vaxholm judgment that a country cannot require that migrant workers be paid the same high wage as permanent residents. this means lower wages for the workers who go back, but it also means less tax revenue for the host country. on the other hand, the eu has dictated that migrant workers, even after a short period of employment, should have access to the host country's social benefits at the same high level as permanent residents. less revenue, but more expenditure - there is no connection between the two, and that is why i call on the commission to stop undermining the collective welfare system.
for the edf group. mr president, thank you, commissioner andor, for coming to this important debate today. i have to admit, i knew we lived far apart, but the fact that we're actually on two completely different planets is new to me. however, that must be the conclusion when i hear what you are saying. free movement is good. no one is questioning that, you say. yes, but what is free movement other than the recent decision of the court of justice of the european union, which we saw without any democratic debate, without any democratic mandate being forced to follow? what was free movement a year ago is not the same as today in relation to social security rights, cash benefits and, i don't know, welfare rights in general. it is not the same as it will be in four or five years' time, because the court is constantly pushing the limits of what we in our member states can reserve for our own citizens. they say there's no problem. they have had consultancy firms draw up a report which shows consultancy firms which have received half a billion kroner worth of services from this house, from your house, from the eu system in general, over the last six years. the commission's proposal is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. they say that those of us who say that we want to keep the welfare benefits for our own citizens and for ourselves, who have paid taxes in our own countries, are just sceptics and populists. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. i hope that at some point - perhaps after the next parliamentary elections, when you will no longer hold the high office you hold today - you will be appalled at the way you have handled the free movement and the right to welfare in the eu!
mr president, the commission report rejects the idea that there is a problem with so-called welfare tourism, and other reports and examples that we have heard about today show the same thing. this is why we must not allow the european union to be the only one to be able to do so. but the commission's report is about whether citizens are going to another country to collect welfare benefits in the new and often richer country. and it's not going to happen. the free movement is for citizens seeking work and who contribute positively to the economy of the host country. but the fear of welfare tourism also has another source, namely the fear that eu citizens from other countries are given a lot of rights without contributing to society in a similar way. so the question is whether you think the system is fair. there must be a close link between rights and duties. in my country, it takes a fairly big effort to qualify for unemployment benefits, and it is not sustainable if eu citizens from other countries are given an easier path into the system, which is quite rewarding. once you have qualified, you can receive a daily allowance for up to two years. these are the questions which the commission and the member states must address and examine carefully before it becomes a problem. the free movement of labour is a great good and we must all continue to see it as a good.
rapporteur. − madam president, i have a declaration to make prior to the budget vote. there are always some technical issues that we need to vote on in advance, and i will ask you to listen very carefully because i will say this just once. (laughter) the only reference document for the figures is doc. 6. in the case of amendments covering several budget lines, the vote refers to all the lines covered by them. there are errors in four amendments which need to be corrected. amendment 1083 on item 16 03 01 01 – ‘multimedia actions’: the amount for payment appropriations should read ‘eur 29.895 million’ and not ‘eur 29.395 million’. in amendment 1234 concerning the establishment plan for the efsa agency, the total for ast posts should read: ‘112’ instead of ‘110’, making a total of five permanent and 344 temporary agents, taking the overall total to 349 instead of 347. amendment 1238 concerning the establishment plan for the acer agency: the total for ad posts should read ‘73’ instead of ‘74’, making a grand total therefore of 96. amendment 1063 concerning a new line on the actual and desired state of the economic potential in regions outside the greek capital athens: this amendment refers to a new preparatory action and not a pilot project. then there were two amendments adopted within the incorrect mff headings, so they should be changed as follows: amendment 1153 – ‘preparatory action – e-platform for neighbourhood’ should be included in heading 1a and not heading 4. amendment 1078 – ‘pilot project – your europe travel (yet) application for mobile devices’ should be included in heading 2 and not heading 3. then there are two amendments on existing pilot projects that must be withdrawn and replaced with amendments to create new preparatory action lines. these are amendment 1075 – ‘preparatory action – healthy diet: early years and ageing population’, and amendment 1087 – ‘preparatory action –funding for the rehabilitation of victims of torture’. finally, to avoid duplication, technical corrections will need to be made to modify the budget line references of a number of new lines, mainly pilot projects and preparatory actions proposed in our amendments. parliament’s position does not take into account this year’s amending letter no 2 to the 2014 budget, adopted by the commission on 16 october, which will be integrated during the conciliation. thank you for your attention and i will ask for these proposals to be supported by the house.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by expressing my condolences to the russian people on the terrorist attack on a passenger bus in volgograd the other day, in which up to 20 people were killed or injured. no cause, just or unjust, can justify attacks on innocent civilians. on the other hand, any democratic state must also be prepared to accept peaceful protests against its policies. and so i would also, of course, urge the russian authorities to release the greenpeace activists who are in prison and drop the charges of piracy. charges that could get you up to 15 years in prison. the greenpeace activists are neither pirates nor terrorists. greenpeace activists are committed citizens who want to raise awareness through peaceful means of the disastrous consequences of oil drilling in the arctic. not just for nature, not just for the animals, but for the native people as well. therefore, these activists must be released. and that claim, all good forces must back it up. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
blue card answer. mr president, thank you for your question. now mr peter van dalen probably did not hear the last part, where i just called on all forces to come together and put pressure on russia. it is clear that if we are to put pressure on russia, we must of course find some concrete ways of doing so. it starts, of course, with everyone demanding that they be released. and when it is clearly stated - we heard earlier that the council had not discussed the matter - when the demand is clearly stated and if it does not lead to a reaction, then of course we have to discuss what the next step is. but it would be wise to put the request to the council before discussing the next steps after the request has been made. but i support the council of course putting the demand to russia when it hopefully discusses the matter very soon.
mr president, i would like to thank you. anne mie roer jensen is one of the activists. she's 29 years old. she's studying to be a captain at marstal navigation school. she's not a criminal. her friends say that before she went on the trip, she said that it was really mostly to get out on the water. i'm sure she's a strong young woman, but she's with all due respect more of a girl than a pirate. likewise, the other 29 activists are not criminals. they're not hooligans or terrorists or pirates. they're activists who don't violently agitate their cause. that is why we must send a very clear signal today from the european parliament, but also from the commission and from the council directly to mr putin. directly to the russian president. release these greenpeace activists, send anne mie home to marstal.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, thank you to franco. i can totally sign off on what gerbrandy actually said. i would also like to take the title, so i do not want to go in and make a fuss, but i would like to address you directly, mr potočnik, and thank you for the speech you made. it was almost like hearing the best part of my own country's environmental policy for a while, that we are now moving towards or we should be moving towards a completely different way of thinking about energy, climate, resources, waste, biodiversity, etc. i would also like to express my wish that you should have the support of the commission and perhaps even of our governments. and then i want to highlight here what you said in your speech just now about greenpeace, because it was actually very moving to hear that we thank greenpeace here for being our voice and our awareness in this area, where the arctic is involved. i would also like to say to you that we are also very pleased that we have been promised that the aarhus convention will be really implemented now, so that people like greenpeace, but also other citizens, can play their active role, so that we can keep the council on this, we can keep the commission on this, we can all keep on what we have to do. so it is a thank you that is built into a very great hope that there is strength and fighting spirit to persevere in this cause.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i feel i should say to mrs matias that it would be almost nice if someone would listen to us once in a while, because then at least someone would listen to what we say and do here in parliament! europe cannot be united! because you can't make an omelet out of hard-boiled eggs! so said former french president charles de gaulle. charles de gaulle was wrong! we have shown over the years, through history, that it is possible to bring europe together. and one of the most important collections we have made is the internal market. if i were to stand here today and say that i am against creating a single market for potatoes, for milk, for tractors, for refrigerators, you would think i was completely out of my mind. in view of this, it is absolutely absurd that we are facing today, both from the sector and from the member states, very strong opposition to the commissioner's proposals for creating an internal market for digital services and communications. i meet lobbyists every day, both from government teams and from the industry, who ask, why now? why so fast? why the rush? there is only one answer to that, and that is: why did these proposals not come yesterday, the day before yesterday, several years ago? and i would like to emphasize that this is not a criticism of our commissioner. i think it is wonderful that we have a commission which now at least has the courage and the manhood to point out something that can take us forward in this area. we do not have to agree on all the details, but it is important that we understand what the objective of this is and that we as a parliament understand how to build on what the commissioner has brought forward, because that is what is going to take us forward towards a single market which should be a given in europe today.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. we fully agree with the amendment's message that the general expenditure allowance should be strictly controlled and that it should be used for lawful purposes only. we are concerned, however, about the great bureaucratic chaos which an internal audit in parliament of all expenditure without a ceiling would entail. instead, we call on members to ensure that the funds are audited and that this happens on an annual basis, as it is strictly necessary that the funds go to legitimate purposes as laid down in parliament's rules.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen, ole christensen and emilie turunen), are concerned about the current refugee situation, including illegal flows of refugees across the mediterranean. we are witnessing terrible human misfortunes. we therefore welcome the concrete instruments proposed in the resolution, including in particular the establishment of the 'special task force on refugee flows' in which the danish ministry of foreign affairs is also represented. we also stress that we support the danish eu asylum reservation and that our support for the resolution does not imply that we want changes in danish policy towards the eu in this matter.
in writing. - we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen, ole christensen and emilie turunen), take the concerns of european citizens about the surveillance of private personal data by the nsa very seriously. in many lands, surveillance is a matter of great concern. we therefore share the desire to get the surveillance situation under control and to have a better dialogue with the americans on the matter. however, we have chosen not to vote on whether to suspend the swift agreement as a result of the nsa's surveillance, as we do not believe that this is the right tool to use in the context of criticism of the nsa's methods, just as we fear that a suspension of the swift agreement will put a damper on the ongoing free trade negotiations between the us and the eu.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 6 because it stresses the importance of international trade being based much more on standards in health, social rights, working conditions and the environment - and the importance of trade agreement negotiations being based on the involvement of a wide range of interests in society. however, my support for amendment no 6 does not mean that i support the eu-us ttip negotiations: i do not believe that a ttip agreement can mean growth for ordinary people - or that ttip should be a trade model for other countries and regions.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a big congratulations from the liberal group on this excellent result this excellent reform. if you look at the overall mff budget for the next seven years and look at this result, i think you have to conclude that erasmus plus may well be the most successful we have ever seen in this seven-year budget, and which we can be proud to have helped to make real. on a day like today, one might ask: what will happen to erasmus plus? what's the next step? during the negotiations, questions were raised on several occasions about the quality of the erasmus programmes and the quality of young people's stay abroad. we have now, through the magic of numbers and through discussions, secured a proper budget and almost doubled the number of young people who can go. so what are these young people out there experiencing? can we improve the quality of the journey they're taking? i think there is room and opportunity for that and we should address it in the next round of discussions with the next commission and the next parliament when we get there and have to start evaluating. the liberal group is, as i said, extremely pleased! we have come a long way and i am sure that in the future we will look back on one of the greatest victories that this parliament and this commission have achieved.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the alde group chose not to challenge the amount agreed by the heads of state. we do not see any problem in saving, but we were a little disappointed with the areas where savings were made compared with the commission's proposals. we felt that you were not ambitious enough in terms of research. we think that growth policy suffered as a result of the european council's austerity measures. we were saddened by the fate of foreign policy, and also by the fact that the budgetary knife was being used on asylum and the fight against crime, while people want more money back for agriculture and for the structural funds. it is clear from the situation that the budgetary framework we have means a saltwater injection of infrastructure investment in europe. i think that is the characteristic of this budget. the budget will be much larger than in the previous period for investments in transport and energy, and the digital agenda is still there, although it is also affected by savings. we would like to see more savings in the agricultural budget and in the structural funds budget and more growth, and that is why we are very keen that this audit clause and the use of the flexibility instruments become a thing in the future, because we have to get back to this and make sure that there is a budget for europe and that it is not just a matter of member states wanting their money back. thank you, mr president.
the commission is not the negotiations on the 2014 eu budget started off with a mix of ease and difficulty. it was easy, in that the tight economic framework meant that there were not the large sums to negotiate. parliament and the council were not far apart here. on the other hand, there were strong principles at stake, also in view of the fact that 2014 is the first year of the multiannual financial framework and this is where we have to interpret the agreement which parliament finally approves today for the first time. parliament recognises the difficult economic situation in which many countries find themselves. this budget is a budget of savings. this is 6% below the level for the current year, and we have therefore accepted that the 2014 budget will remain below the ceilings agreed in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, with one exception, namely the use of the flexibility instrument in category 1b, which left room for an additional allocation for cyprus and the so-called macro-regions of the baltic sea and the danube and a number of other smaller items, totalling eur 89.3 million. that is the amount by which we have exceeded the ceilings. parliament defended the commission's approach to the 2014 budget. we went over the commission's budget on a number of items. this was the case, for example, with the budget for the digital agenda, in the social field, for a number of agencies, namely the three financial sector supervisory authorities, the frontex border agency, the joint action on asylum and the fight against crime through europol, and we secured more appropriations for the external budget, with a particular focus on humanitarian action in the middle east. as usual, the council's focus was on payments, on the amount that the countries actually have to pay in the coming year. the council had cut the commission's estimate of payments by eur 1 billion and we had to maintain our position. we could not go below the commission's figures. we must ensure that the commission has the money to meet its legal obligations so that the due bills can be paid. after 12 hours of deliberation by the council, the offer came: eur 300 million, and after another hour and a half we could meet halfway. i do not think it was a worthy course of action, but i do not want to criticise the lithuanian presidency. i would like to criticise those countries which very square and rigidly refuse to accept that the payments we have agreed for the next seven years are what is needed. on the contrary, i must say that the lithuanian presidency, and particularly mr rimkūnas, throughout the negotiations has shown an open and accommodating style which also made it possible to ensure that we got all the other details in place and secured what i believe to be a reasonable compromise. we have received a statement on the payments, in which all three institutions promise to ensure that there is enough money to pay the outstanding bills. we have received a statement on the agencies, where a joint group between the three institutions is to look at the resources and staffing of the individual agencies. we have always declared our readiness to find savings and to make efficiency improvements, also in the agencies, but not by automatic greenhouse savings. we must assume the political responsibility to ensure that the tasks and resources are being followed up. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators, our chairman of the committee on budgets and, in particular, the secretariat and our staff, who helped to ensure that we got a good result. thank you, mr president.
in writing. - i am not in favour of the eu throwing more and more money at the iter project, which has not yet shown any major results. i am generally in favour of basic research, but i also believe that there should be a fairness in the allocation of eu funds. the fact that i have voted for the supplementary research programme for iter is because the project has already been adopted and implemented. a no vote would be a vote against the finance act, and i don't want that.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. let me start by saying how happy i am to be standing here today! i am glad that we are voting tomorrow on the directive to get more women on the boards of european companies. for many years, the eu has been a pioneer in the field of equality, from equal pay to rights at work. we can be rightly proud of the developments in europe over the last few decades. the results speak for themselves. today, 60% of all university graduates in the eu are women. and when women have the longest education, it is common sense that they should have the same opportunities as men to become leaders and influence the economy of large companies. but unfortunately, women still face a glass ceiling which prevents them from getting top jobs in business. despite all the talk about gender equality, in 2013 only one gender dominates company boards. more than eight out of 10 board seats in europe are held by men. the development is simply too slow. despite the limited number of voluntary initiatives at national and european level, the situation has not changed much in recent years and, if we continue at this pace, it will be more than 40 years before we can speak of a fairly even gender distribution in the boards. if we don't take advantage of women's talents and expensive education paid for by taxpayers, there could be consequences. if europe is to survive in global competition, we need to recruit from the whole talent pool, including women. the european union needs capable and productive women to help it emerge from the economic crisis. with tomorrow's vote we are taking a step in the right direction. gender equality at work is not a women's issue but a necessity for both business and the economy, and in these difficult economic times we can expect an ever-aging population, falling birth rates and a shortage of skilled labour. so it's more important than ever that we harness all of humanity's skills, regardless of gender.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are in what may be the greatest economic crisis in the history of the world, here in the european union. unemployment is sky-high. none of the reform packages being implemented - especially in southern europe - are working, and yet the european parliament continues to show its willingness to spend 40% of the total eu budget on agriculture. there is no justification at all for this kind of state aid and it is a direct affront to the many people out there in europe who daily cannot get food, have to move from their homes and their homes, lose their jobs, etc. it is shocking to see that the coupled support is now almost being reintroduced; it is shocking to see that more direct support is coming directly to the farmers! that's the opposite of what we need! we don't need more planned economies! we need a market economy, free trade, but you in this parliament want the opposite, and that is why the crisis will never end!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the major reform of the eu's agricultural policy which we are voting on today is a step backwards rather than the progress we could have made. in almost every area, things are going wrong. the greening will be voluntary, so the environmental impact will not be visible or measurable. and the flexibility between the pillars is like renationalization through the back door. and worst of all, we risk having mountains of meat and butter again, because we are reintroducing the link between aid and production. it is difficult to see what the taxpayers get out of this reform, other than that they pay! the public goods are invisible. the reform is a lost opportunity to make eu agriculture green, climate-friendly and competitive. and that is why i am voting against the reform.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, it is democratically unacceptable that president schulz has prevented us from voting on a few green amendments which could have closed a serious gap, which we have discovered in horizon 2020. as things stand, we risk having eu money going to fund illegal settlements in occupied palestine. at this stage, we have no guarantee that this will not happen. eu money must not, under any circumstances, violate international law. they must not weaken the immediate peace negotiations, nor must they undermine the credibility of the union. the eu's settlement guidelines must be fully implemented under horizon 2020, and it is now up to catherine ashton and the commission to make sure that this happens. she can - and she should - take action, and it would be such a scandal and a disgrace if we - because of lack of attention and democratic meddling - were to forestall such an important decision, so i very much hope that we in parliament can come together on this appeal to ashton.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me start by congratulating the rapporteur on a great job! i think we have a really good result in our hands and i am particularly pleased that the social sciences and humanities have now become part of horizon 2020. previous research programmes focused too much on the immediate needs of industry for new knowledge and new products. but horizon 2020 also focuses on the societal developments that we will see in europe in the coming years. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the commission will shape the whole agenda on the social sciences and the humanities, and especially the new interdisciplinarity which has been introduced in the research programme. the knowledge we have from the so-called soft sciences is a prerequisite for solving the major societal challenges such as population ageing, immigration and changes in people's behaviour in relation to climate and green solutions. and i will be watching very closely from this house to see that the commission meets the objectives that we in this house have set for these areas.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to thank mr creutzmann for his excellent cooperation. i also thank mr rübig for his excellent work with small and mediumsized enterprises. the adoption of the cosme programme will, as has been said, provide eur 2 billion over the next seven years to support small and mediumsized enterprises. i would naturally have liked to see more money allocated to this area, given its importance. we know that 80 out of 100 jobs are created in small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. but at the same time, we're gonna have to focus on the whole area. we have seen from the discussion we have had today on horizon 2020 that there is also money for small and mediumsized enterprises, which is very important. as regards cosme, i am particularly pleased that a large proportion of these funds - 60% - are going to help small and mediumsized enterprises which have difficulty in obtaining financing. we know that there are three major challenges that we have had for a number of years and that have still not moved. the first point is access to capital. that is the most important thing in a banking market which is really frozen at the moment for small and mediumsized enterprises. we also need access to new markets. when we look at growth in europe, we do not see very high growth rates. that is why we need to help small and mediumsized enterprises to enter the markets where growth is highest. the second and third points are to combat bureaucracy. we need to look inward - even in this house from time to time - rather than keep passing new legislation that costs a lot. we need more impact assessments of the legislative work we do every day in the european parliament. there is always a good reason for introducing new legislation, but unfortunately it is the small and mediumsized businesses who are dealing with the consequences. the importance of this programme cannot be underestimated. the programme is expected to reach 300,000 small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, which can help create the growth we so badly need. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
blue card answer. i'd say this would be a very good cause. we have now got money for erasmus ii, which is very important, but more money is needed for the cosme programme! we fought for it; we didn't get it! i would therefore like to support the idea that the fines collected can be used for both erasmus ii and the cosme programme.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to join the previous speakers in praising the life project itself, which - as has been said on several occasions - has been a very successful project. the european union has been welcomed in many countries for having really taken action here to protect something that is actually vulnerable, namely nature. as mr gerbrandy has just said, nature is always seen as a luxury which we may one day be able to afford, and not as something to be put at the centre. this view of nature and the lack of fear of its impoverishment is perhaps one of the serious signs that degradation is taking place. it's about the whole mindset - the whole way of thinking - of what it takes to make our societies healthier and survive in the long run. it is good that we have integrated projects and that the emphasis is on climate now that money has really come in for climate adaptation. in many of our countries we are carrying out important projects which take account of nature and are aimed at climate adaptation and at preventing the disasters that otherwise come our way. we have terrible and good examples in denmark of this being a good help. however, there have been rumors that this climate money could slip away again and go to private companies, which can make it difficult to see whether the money will actually benefit the climate, nature and the environment, or whether it goes to other purposes that we cannot see. i would ask you, mr potočnik, to confirm that we are in control of the money and that it is not going to slip through our fingers in the course of this procedure. it's a risk, you know. just now, gerbrandy barrosos mentioned something arrogant and i also thought it was a rather dull attitude towards nature. once those forces are aligned, things can go wrong quickly. the budget is tight. we have seen with our own eyes that cuts have been made which have not only gone to the bone but almost to the bone, so we must watch carefully how this is going to develop. we have ngos, we have civil society, we have communities. there are many on our side, but we must support them. and let me close by thanking jutta haug for an excellent job. it's been really hard. we have had good help from the commission. however, when we look at the way the council has acted, it is clear that many do not think that nature is worth spending money on. we can't afford to take care of that. it's got to be some time when we're really rich again that we can start a little conservation and restoration. and that's the good thing, that we managed to hold out, so it didn't go completely wrong. it could have been. thank you and of course thank you also to mr potočnik.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, it is possible to be jealous of having so much speaking time! lieutenant! without nature, there is no life! it's very simple. and the best insurance policy is actually prevention. the proposal is basically about insuring against environmental degradation and climate change. life is an investment in research and problem solving which will also have a positive impact on european employment. instead of considering climate and environmental considerations as isolated aspects, they must now be integrated into all key policy areas, and i am very pleased about this! in this way we will see some synergies which will benefit our research community, business and, not least, our nature. at the same time, we are sending an important signal to the ongoing cop19 negotiations in poland that the eu is taking its environmental and climate commitments seriously and putting action behind words. i hope that this will close loopholes and avoid an insurance policy where too much is written in small letters! the ecr votes in favour of the report by mr jutta haug and thanks him for the great work he has done.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, thank you to the court of auditors for the annual report. i find it shocking that the court of auditors states that many of the errors it has found could have been detected and prevented by the individual countries themselves. i also find it shocking that 38% of the audited transactions are flawed. you'd think we were in some uncivilized, unenlightened part of the world. and i find it not only shocking, but unacceptable that the failure rate is rising for the third year in a row. in the years leading up to the 2009 accounts, there was a decrease in the number of errors. the commission took credit for this. i said at that time in my speech to this house: 'i would like to give the commission the honour. but it also makes clear who is responsible if the failure rate rises again next year. in 2010, the error rate increased. the same thing happened in 2011. and now we have the 2012 accounts. last year i said: 'if we see an increase in the error rate for the third year in a row, it will be impossible for us as members of parliament to defend ourselves to our electorate. we can accept that things are moving in the right direction, albeit slowly and from a high level. but we cannot live with it going the wrong way year after year. i have the same attitude today. the commission should take credit when things go well. but the commission must also take responsibility when things go wrong.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start with the proposal on deep-sea fishing. this is a very important issue as the rapporteur, mr stevenson, has already emphasised. i would like to come back to the commissionʼs proposal. i would like to repeat that the heart of the commissionʼs proposal is the phase-out of bottom trawling and bottom gillnetting for deep-sea species. as you may know, parts of our fisheries industry are against this proposal. they were against it and they are still against it. so in order to answer their concerns, we provided an assessment of the potential socio-economic impact of this particular measure. we came to the conclusion that the large majority, namely 83%, of the vessels that are now catching deep-sea species would not be affected at all. so this is my answer to the concerns of our fishermen: 83% will not be affected at all. under our proposal, only 17% of deep-sea vessels will be affected and let me say clearly what affected means, so we can have this in mind. affected does not mean that these vessels have to stop fishing. not at all. it only means that they have to change their fishing technique to more sustainable gears, as is already practised in some regions of the european union. let me underline that. in some regions of the european union our fishermen have already changed their gears. they are using better gears. for example, in the azores and madeira fishermen have already been doing this for many years. and their vessels are profitable. so if this works for vessels from these regions, then surely it must work for vessels from boulogne and galicia as well. this is what our impact assessment, our study, proves. i regret that the committee on fisheries decided not to support this phase-out. i welcome the amendment tabled by several groups for the plenary that would reintroduce a phase-out. i think that this can be a step towards protection of our deep-sea environment and also towards protecting the sustainability of our fisheries. so let me assure you that the commission is ready to engage in constructive three-party discussions on this proposal. having said that, i have to say here very openly that now that parliament is expressing its views on the proposal, since you are going to vote tomorrow, i expect – i hope, but also i expect and i am going to ask – the council presidency to finally start their work on this regulation. the council has not even started to work on this regulation even though our proposal was tabled a long time ago. so i would like to ask the presidency again, since parliament is going to conclude tomorrow, to start – at least to start – their work on this file. now i would like to turn to mackerel and mr gallagherʼs question. you know of course, because we have discussed this issue here in the plenary over and over again and also in the committee on fisheries, that the commission has been working for more than three years to find a solution for the mackerel fisheries in the north atlantic, with the objective of protecting the best interests of our fishermen, in particular those in the pelagic sector. this is our aim and this is what we are trying to do and what we intend to do. for a number of years now, the mackerel stock has migrated into new territories and the stock now spreads as far as iceland and even greenland. i do not want to praise here the bad behaviour of iceland and the faroe islands since they have imposed unilateral quotas. i agree that this is something that is not acceptable, but at the same time i think that i have to stress that we need an agreement, and in order to reach an agreement we have to understand and we have to recognise that the stock is not only spreading, it is moving up to icelandic and greenland waters. so we have to have this in mind if we really want an agreement. simply saying you have no right to fish and we are going to keep all the fish for ourselves is not a good basis for an agreement. this, at least, is my opinion. so what is happening now? we have some good scientific advice for this year, although it is not yet fixed, and i can say that what i see is an opportunity to reach an agreement with iceland and the faroe islands. an opportunity, a window of opportunity. of course our industry and the norwegian industry – we are discussing this with norway too – will be the main beneficiaries of the increase in the availability and the catch stocks for mackerel in 2014 following the latest ices advice. but i would very much like to reach an agreement now that the stock is in good shape. if the stock is in good shape then it gives us the opportunity, a better window of opportunity, to reach an agreement. if the stock is not in good shape, then everybody will want to fish more and this is not the best way to act. so i have been discussing again and again with the icelandic government and i am going – myself – the day after tomorrow to the faroe islands to meet the prime minister and the minister for fisheries and try to persuade them to come to a deal with us. it will not be easy and of course we are working on this together with our norwegian allies. we also have to discuss it with you and we have to discuss it with the council of ministers. so it will not be a decision taken by a commissioner. it will be a decision taken by the full college, of course. it will be a decision that will be taken by the council of ministers, and this is something i would welcome because i think that our fishermen really need the best protection for their interests. it will not be an agreement at any cost. it will be an agreement on a realistic basis that understands that the stocks are not only ours. so having norway and the european union once again fishing 90% of the stock, as we did last year, is not an option for me. i would like to state that very clearly. why? because if we try to do this again it will not be a good basis for persuading anybody, especially the court if we are going for trade measures, that we ourselves are fishing sustainably. so we have to recognise that we have to move towards a deal. if the deal is possible, it will be ok. if the deal is not possible, then we have to take decisions for sustainability. let me add something else. mr gallagher repeated here that we have to go for a two-tier approach. i agree with him. this is also in our mind. that is why i can inform parliament that in any case no deal will give icelanders and faroese access to our waters. this is our translation of this principle. they are not going to have access to our waters. this means that if the stocks are not in good shape, then they are not going to fish their share. they are going to fish only in their waters. so this is something we have to bear in mind. i do not know if there will be an agreement. i am going to try hard to get one. i will of course discuss it with the council and the council has been supportive for the moment. they will also discuss the final outcome of our agreement, of our negotiation. what i would like to say very openly is that we have to remember that if we end up with no deal this year, then it is highly likely that there will be an olympic fishery there. why? because no deal means that iceland and the faroese will put their unilateral quotas in place. then the member states will push in the council to have their share too, so we may end up with an olympic fishery approach and we may end up with a situation that will not be good for the sustainability of the stocks. but then at least i will be able to come here and say i have tried, so it will not be the commissionʼs responsibility if the stock collapses.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something. - i'm not going to lie to you. as parliamentarians we have assumed the legal and moral responsibility to preserve and protect our natural values. every day, trawling destroys some 40,000 square kilometers of seabed, leaving behind areas that most resemble underwater deserts! trawling destroys everything it comes in contact with, whether it's 1,000-year-old coral or fragile deep-sea species, many of which are inedible. this vote concerns a small number of boats that fish at such great depths and they do not contribute to the public finances of europe, private jobs or the economy as a whole. in return, they receive enormous amounts of eu aid. if we continue with deep-sea trawling, we will not only damage the marine environment, we will damage the legitimacy and reputation of this assembly! some decisions should not be so difficult to make, and this is one of them in my view! i therefore vote in favour of the report by mr arsenis.
i have to say, madam president, it is fine for the eu to conclude an agreement with morocco but only with morocco! i can only support some of the statements made by my previous speakers. since no one recognizes morocco's claim to western sahara, it is obvious that morocco cannot be recognized as having the right to negotiate on behalf of western sahara. the un recognizes the right of self-determination of the indigenous peoples of western sahara and, as long as their interests are not included in the negotiations, this agreement cannot be valid! the adoption of the agreement will mean that the eu will pay morocco for fishing in foreign, international waters. the united states has a free trade agreement with morocco which does not include western sahara but only concerns moroccan territory. i very much hope that the eu will come up with the same model, so if the us can respect international law, i am sure the eu can too!
for the ecr group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu civil protection regime plays a central role in the event of major cross-border humanitarian disasters and emergencies. of course, crossborder problems require crossborder solutions, and here it makes sense that the eu can coordinate and strengthen cooperation between member states when necessary. i'm actually from an area that's just been hit hard by the storm. but i also come from a country which, like some other member states of the european union, has long ago concluded important bilateral agreements with its neighbours on the sharing of knowledge, equipment and emergency aid. civil protection is primarily a national issue, as needs and challenges vary widely from one state to another. the problem is that the proposal to double the scheme's budget for the next seven years is - for us - unacceptably high! in an era of depleted public finances and a historic reduction in the eu budget, this proposal does not quite fit in with the real world. the countries must learn to manage without a large increase in the eu budget. but thank you for your help and thank you for your efforts!
in writing. - the danish social democrats in the european parliament (dan jørgensen, christel schaldemose, britta thomsen, ole christensen and emilie turunen) voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on donor coordination at eu level in the field of development aid (2013/2057 (ini)) as we believe that the report addresses a relevant issue in the field of development aid and proposes a number of sensible solutions. although there are parts of the proposal which we cannot support (e.g. paragraph 8) and although we do not believe that all coordination of development aid should be controlled from brussels, we believe that the report as a whole sends the right signal to strengthen the coordination of eu aid to achieve a better impact of the funds used.
